ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u2	Colleagues, as you can see, the setting of oral questions has been slightly altered by the circumstances. The Rules of Procedure, on the other hand, have remained the same. Two minutes for the question, two minutes for the answer and one minute for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, this treaty is the right way to solve a global problem. There are people who think they can do everything themselves, but that is nationalism in its purest form. Mr Prime Minister, these are the words of Angela Merkel, last week, in the Bundestag. You must do today what Angela Merkel did this week in the German Parliament. It looked far right in the eyes and made it clear to them that we, the democrats, the ambassadors of human rights, are not the AfD, not the extreme right, not the nationalists and not the populists. You have to do the same thing today and be equally clear. Ladies and gentlemen, much has already been said about the UN migration pact, including many falsehoods, a lot of propaganda, but very few facts. Anyone who reads the text must note that it is not a manifesto for open borders, but a very balanced text that follows European standards, which mainly targets countries such as Libya, Turkey and Saudi Arabia. It is a text, Mr De Roover, which is not pro or counter migration, but which states that migration is a fact that we must organise and regulate, but in a humane and dignified way. Ladies and gentlemen, that text also states that we must act against xenophobia and racism. Is it all right, Mr. De Roover? Moreover, the text says that locking up children is not just obvious. Can we still say and write that, Mr De Roover? And that text also states that there must be clear criteria for the regularisation of people without papers. Prime Minister, today our country, in your capacity as Prime Minister, must confess colour. They're speculating if you're going to see the King later. The King has just been here and you might have to chase him right away. After all, there is speculation about the end of your government. However, no one is waiting for an early election. But what our fellow countrymen do not have a message about is a prime minister without power, without impact, without credibility. That doesn't help our country either. So I would like to invite you to do what Angela Merkel did in the Bundestag this week, to do what you promised in the United Nations gallery. You must not wait any longer, the moment has come, you must confess colour. Our group is an ally. Human rights are asking parties. Our country must actively support the migration pact here and today. Please be clear about that at last.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the third week in a row, I am questioning the Prime Minister on the famous Marrakechim migration pact. This week, although outside Parliament and, of course, by order of the French President, Macron, you have supported the famous Global Compact for Migration, despite the lack of clarity you have shown over the last few weeks. I note that the N-VA rightly calls the Marrakech Pact problematic. I therefore hope that they will act as they have said on this matter. The Marrakechim migration pact means, no matter what happens, Europe's demographic suicide. Closed borders are and remain safe borders. Mr Secretary of State, if we do not want Europe to become a continent without frontiers, and in that respect, I am convinced that we must do what is in your book, then the N-VA must now, with the strength of its conviction, use all democratic means to ensure that this pact is not signed, is not approved or is not endorsed by this government of which you are the main political party. Following the famous Geneva Convention, which launched an unprecedented flow of refugees from the Third World to Europe, this famous Marrakech Pact could end our European civilisation, identity and culture and our European nations and peoples. Mr Francken and colleagues of the N-VA, I appeal to you, because today's warm and cold blowing is not politically courageous. If Belgium signs the Marrakech Pact, get out of this government. Yes, the Marrakechim migration pact is certainly worth a government crisis. If you want to preserve your credibility in relation to immigration and asylum policy as written in this book, you must put this government before the choice. Either we take the side of brave and courageous countries that are on the side of their own people and Europeans, such as Hungary, Austria, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, but also Israel, Australia and the United States, against the Marrakechim migration pact. Either we go with the forces of the past, the Macrons and the Merkels, for open borders and multiculture, even more migration nuisance and even more Islamization and thus for the Marrakechim Migration Pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u5	Please ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u6	Finally, Mr President, I would like to appeal to you as President of this House. Do what Switzerland is doing right now. They postponed the decision on this pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u7	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u8	They have postponed this and are making their decision to Parliament. The Swiss Parliament will vote on the Marrakechim Migration Pact. Let us do the same in this country and put its fate in the hands of this Parliament. Let us do what the people want. Let the people speak through this Parliament and dare to vote on this pact in honour and conscience and freely. Vote this pact away.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u9	Thank you, Mr Dewinter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u10	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is going to be without transition - at least we can say! - but it is enlightening: at the moment when the previous speaker was speaking, you had to see your Secretary of State for Migration listen very carefully to his words. And if he listened so carefully, it was because, as Mr Clarinval reminded us a few days ago, this problem boils down to seeing one of the partners of the majority - the N-VA - running behind the Vlaams Belang on migration and asylum issues. This is the situation you are facing. You are at a crossroads, Prime Minister. Either you choose the path of regression, of those who want to turn their backs on the values of human rights, to a certain conception of democracy, of respect for those who flee poverty and wars, or, on the contrary, you reaffirm that Belgium is part of this great concert of nations that remember - as we have seen again today with the commemoration of war 14-18 - that there are tragedies in the world, that these tragedies cause suffering and that there is a role for the democracies that we are to be able to hear this suffering and to respond to it. Prime Minister, we will soon be joining the Security Council. This means that the word of Belgium will be observed word for word, sentence for sentence. Every word you say in the rostrum of major international forums, the United Nations in particular, will be considered to be the engaging word of Belgium. And what's going on today? Some, within your Government itself, allow themselves to overturn your words, your commitments and ultimately weaken your function by saying exactly the opposite of what you have said in the rostrum of the United Nations. This is unacceptable, Prime Minister! And because we are democrats, we are committed to the function of which you are today the depositary. So please don't come and tell us in a few hours, or even a few days, that you intend to deliver an interpretative declaration with I don't know what other Head of State! We are told about the Netherlands, or even other countries. Do not do this because it would eventually allow the N-VA to continue to do what it has done since the beginning of the legislature, that is, to mock your authority. This is unacceptable in view of the commitments you have made at the United Nations rostrum. Above all, Prime Minister, do not fall into this trap, at the risk of continuing to weaken your function but also the status of our country in the eyes of the world!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, the citizens are sick of it! This can be seen through different actions such as "yellow jackets" or on social networks. Your government has gone through a number of turbulences. But this time, it's a hurricane that's getting ready and has nothing to do with climate change. Prime Minister, will you put the future of our citizens on an equal footing with an international pact? It seems to me that the socio-economic issues at the end of the legislature are much more important, especially since some of the objectives of this global pact for migration are of little common sense. Indeed, these objectives are mainly developed for workers and the labour market, while in fact the current migration is quite different. Of course, a tiny minority of migrants participate and intend to participate in the active life of our country. But you have to face things and stop pretending! We are also talking about climate migration and environmental degradation, such as sea level rise. It is to be believed that the Mediterranean will climb more to Nador and Tripoli than to Marseille or Lampedusa! This pact does not take into account the economic realities of our country. Indeed, for four and a half years, by a few measures you have taken, we are moving in the right direction but we are far from the terminus. We are not yet in a position to accept all the misery of the world through careless family reunification. Look at the discontent on the street! Prime Minister, we are entering the winter when our fellow citizens have to choose between heating up or taking care of themselves, including workers with a full career. This is unacceptable! By electoralism, you risk undermining the political action of this government and the recovery of this country, in order to sign a pact that will sink our efforts again. Don't tell me about self-absorbing; don't tell me about the richness of diversity; observe the reality: the growth of indirect or disguised taxes massacres the purchasing power of the middle class. Add cuts in health care and the cost of safety for a basic service. Prime Minister, do you intend to give priority to the citizens of this country for once?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u13	Prime Minister, last week, you contorted yourself to try to cover the differences within your government's parties. You have even tried to explain that you could reverse your statements, then unequivocally, in the rostrum of the United Nations. Since then, the positions of Mrs Merkel and Mr Macron seem to have changed your mind. I would like to turn to the substance of this pact, because some here, through the media and social networks, use and abuse it in an attempt to make it appear that it could lead to a strengthening of migration to Belgium. That's not true! It is unacceptable to have this text say what it does not contain. It is playing on fears in a purely electoralist strategy. No democrat can oppose a pact that proposes: - to combat forced migration and trafficking in human beings; - to increase international cooperation; - to avoid deaths; - facilitate safe returns and readmissions to the countries of origin; - to focus on alternatives to the detention of children; - strong commitments, seeking more human dignity, but also more effective migration policy. Prime Minister, do you realize that you are governing with a party opposed to these strong commitments and whose positions are directly dictated by those of Vlaams Belang? I ask you to repeat here your commitment, the one you have made at the United Nations. Are you going, yes or no, on behalf of Belgium, to sign the Global Compact on Migration? Will you sign it full and complete and not revisited with N-VA sauce? So we will know which side you are on, in that of the democrats or in that of the populists and the far right. It's a very simple question, but it's clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, an international text has been negotiated for months. Hundreds of countries are in the process of agreeing to try to solve a problem and a challenge as important as migration. For eighteen months, negotiations took place and N-VA was present during these negotiations For eighteen months, N-VA did not say anything and at the end the party intervened. For electoral reasons, we intervene at the end of the process to completely falsify the stakes of this text! What is the problem with this text? Have you read the text, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA? I'm sure you haven't even read it! This text has the ambition to have global solutions, not at the level of a single country. This text has the ambition to combat these negative structural factors, which cause millions of people to leave their country. And we – the Western countries – have an important responsibility in that. That is what the countries of the South give us as a signal. The colonialism of our countries has destroyed all the local economies, as well as the wars we waged there. Mr Francken, you were chaud boulette to bomb Libya and Afghanistan. It was full-bodied. What's the result of those bombings? Hundreds of thousands of people in trouble. That's what you're responsible for. Of course. What is the situation on the planet with this dumping of our goods? Do you think we can go on like this? 1% of the population has as much wealth as the remaining 99%! That is untenable, ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this text, on its scale, is to seek solutions. In this text, I read 57 times the words "human rights". In this text I have read the word human rights 57 times, and in Mr Francken's text I have seen the word human rights 0 times. In Mr Franken's text, I have read the words "human rights" 0 times. I will conclude, Mr President. The question is very simple, Prime Minister. Will you bend under pressure from the right-wing and far-right populist parties to reject the misery of the world to the sea? Or will you finally agree to pursue a proactive policy to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, Secretary of State, should I be in your place, I would be ashamed. I would be ashamed of the spectacle that we have seen in recent weeks and which is apparently worth even a government crisis to some people. People at home don't have a message about that show. Meanwhile, the diesel price in our country is the highest in Europe. Did we hear the government talk about that? Have we heard the government discuss this in order to find solutions? No, it was quiet, wind silent. Meanwhile, electricity prices in our country are the most expensive in Europe. Have we heard the government discuss how it would lighten the invoice? No, it was quiet, wind silent. In the meantime, we still do not know whether we will have electricity this winter, but for the government that was apparently not important enough to discuss. Ladies and gentlemen, those are the problems that wake people up. Those are the problems people are dealing with today, but apparently you aren't. It must be about the migration pact. Colleagues, climate problems and migratory pressures do not stop at our borders. They must be solved in Europe. If you want solutions, you need to find them together with other countries, not alone. Whoever wants to tell people something else is lying. The migration pact now before us offers a solution to control migratory pressure in a humane way. Ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, I understand that you are getting nervous, because this week the N-VA communicated that the content of the migration pact was very problematic. However, the N-VA abstained from discussions in the European Parliament. It was so problematic that they did not even want to vote against it. Friends, if you have any problems with the pact, act like directors. Sit down at the table, pronounce it, because all the other people of the majority have apparently read something else. Stop fighting. Act like drivers. Sit down at the table. Speak it out and sign the pact so that you can deal with people's problems again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, more and more countries are asking questions about the migration pact, including now Switzerland, and rightly so. A few days ago, I heard Deputy Prime Minister De Croo explain that it is far right, because far right picks up the debate. I didn't know Switzerland was already far right. Are all Flemings who have questions and are opposed to this migration pact all far right? Perhaps we can consider your statement, Mr Vice-President, as fake news and make a contribution to your fund to combat fake news. Switzerland is also working on the migration pact for another reason. The country is also starting a debate on the sovereignty of the countries. We too must have this debate, we need a debate here on the sovereignty of the country. This morning I heard Mr Verherstraeten on the radio explain that, regardless of the migration pact, we decide who enters our country. That, too, is fake news, Mr Verherstraeten, you may also be able to make your contribution to the fund to combat fake news. After all, the international courts determine who enters the country; we have long lost that sovereignty. Rules that we introduce here are overruled by international courts. That debate is therefore necessary, because these international courts are not accountable to anyone. They should speak straight, but they actually make political decisions. Prime Minister, in September you announced at the United Nations General Assembly that Belgium will adopt the migration pact. Last week, you replied in plenary that you made that announcement in consultation with your majority, and that comments could be made in advance. Now, I want to know whether or not comments have been made. Did you make those statements in September with the approval of the entire government and were there any comments in advance? If so, by whom, and what is the content of those comments? In the meantime, Prime Minister, we are hearing very strong statements. You would personally travel to Marrakech to support the Pact. Secretary of State Francken may go with you to carry the Prime Minister's suitcases. You're man enough for that, Mr Secretary of State. I'm sure you can do that. Prime Minister, will it be Merkel and Macron, M and M, or will it be triple-M and Michel will be in that list?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, migration concerns many people. We must take these concerns seriously. Every society needs sufficient cohesion. So we also need to set limits on who we can take on board. Illegal migration is not something we solve on our own island. Nor do we solve migration by moving the problems to the neighbor. We solve migration by working together internationally and by tackling cause and effect. Colleagues, the migration pact could be a way of encouraging better international cooperation. Prime Minister, you announced to the United Nations, after lengthy consultations within the government and with the approval of the government, that this country would approve the migration pact. You didn't do that for no reason. You did this because we were convinced that the migration pact is a story of rights but also of obligations. Both go together. Colleagues, the Pact states that we must tackle the causes of people's migrate. The Pact states that we want to step up the fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. The Pact states that we must do coordinated border management and have the ambition to strengthen borders. The Pact also states that countries of origin should include return commitments. The Pact lays down obligations of countries of origin. Was and is not the policy of expulsion the Achilles' heel of migration in our country and also in the other countries? Do we not therefore need the obligations under the countries of origin? There are international conventions and indeed international courts. However, there is also an internal legal order. There is still a Parliament and a government here that can pass laws and decide who is allowed to come and stay in this country and who is not allowed to do so. That right remains in force within an international legal order. Colleagues, the Pact is not a binding treaty. The Pact is a target and a commitment to better cooperation. Mr Prime Minister, I have the following questions. You said in September that this country would approve the text. Since then, questions have been asked at home and abroad. Our group wants to listen to questions and comments. Does that pact respect Belgian law and international obligations? Does that pact violate our sovereignty? Does that go against the Marrakech Declarations signed by Deputy Prime Minister Reynders, by Deputy Prime Minister Jambon, by Secretary of State Francken? Does this pact cause any problems? If so, how can we solve that together?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the Global Compact for Migration. I would just like to say that there is only one English text available. Maybe that's a sign.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u19	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u20	Mr Calvo, I know that you are particularly condescending towards people who do not achieve your intellectual level, which is very few, but your remark is particularly shocking. If we want a social debate on this matter, I think it is essential that every citizen of this country can take note of this text. I think it is significant that only an English version is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u21	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u22	Mr Calvo, I know your condescension to the common man. You're going to illustrate that here again. At least that's what hits our chests. So we're talking about the Global Compact for Migration. What does the word global mean if the United States doesn't participate, if Australia doesn't participate and if an increasingly large group in Europe doesn't participate? They say we don't want to be in that club. When we talk about clubs, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard the Communists sign in Marrakech: I do not want to be in that club. If that is the definition of the debate, we have already received the answer here. That dirty little club we do not want to be in is the club of Austria and Hungary with Christian Democrat prime ministers, which is the club of Estonia and the Czech Republic with liberal prime ministers. I don't know what's dirty about those lines, honestly. That is certainly the club with which a number of Members of our hemisphere sits in the European Parliament. They are, in any case, democratically legitimized parties and governments. We hear regularly in the hemisphere that we need to find European solutions. Well, we are in favour of a European solution. We call, Prime Minister, for you to make efforts to ensure that Europe as a whole participates in a Global Compact for Migration and not just a part of Europe, not just a part that would love our vision. If one is European, then Eastern Europe is part of it. It is said that the text is not binding. If he's not legally binding, I suggest we don't go. What's the line... [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u23	Yes, but you have the Communists' applause. That's what I'd be embarrassed about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u24	You need to close down, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u25	What is the point of going to a circus, where we all hope to emit CO2 in an airplane, and to sign or confirm in Marrakech a text which, it seems, is not binding. Prime Minister: is the text binding or not? If he's non-binding, let's just stay away. If he is binding, then there is fake news spread across the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u26	You have to finish, Mr. De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u27	Thirdly, it is indeed about content. It is about whether legal and illegal migration are still two different forms of migration. It is a question of whether we will still be able to decide in Parliament how to deal with forced expulsions. It is about whether we in Parliament will still be able to determine the area within which family reunification can take place. It's about those questions. I have just heard talk about aucun démocrate and nous sommes des démocrates. Well, this is the house of democracy, this is the house where migration policy should be determined, this is the house where sovereignty... [[Tumult]] Our house of democracy is in Brussels and not in Marrakech for the time being. Prime Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, are you going to have an overall European agreement so that we can go to a real Global Compact, or are you going to divide Europe? Secondly, what is your answer to the question of whether this agreement is binding or whether we are being dragged into a trap, where tomorrow Parliament's autonomy will be challenged and restricted? Finally, what is your answer to the question of whether there is and remains a distinction between legal and illegal migration?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we have often been asked, in recent times, whether we still have the situation of migration under control. Each of us gets that question sometimes. People are concerned that our country would be flooded by illegal migrants. People are also scared when they see images of fights on television at different highway parkings. I understand these feelings, but I believe that Europe faces major challenges in this respect. Let us recognise that illegal migration is a problem. That places politics but also the country before a choice. What shall we do? Shall we stir up people's fears? Will we pop up everything, thinking that we can use it to make a political-electoral coin? Or will we try to solve the problem within Europe and at the international forum? After all, it is madness to think that our country can do this alone. Which side do we take if we are looking for that kind of international cooperation? Then who do we choose? Do we then side with Orbán, Kurz or Trump? I hear this dropping here all the time. Or will we cooperate with Germany, France and the United Kingdom? Will we try to cooperate with the countries of origin on migration? I am well placed to know that readmission agreements must be concluded with the countries of origin. Just here is a great opportunity in the Compact. My group has chosen a clear side, ladies and gentlemen. And your government, Prime Minister, has actually chosen that side. We opt for cooperation and we go for solutions. Those who continue to claim that Belgium can take up the challenge and solve it alone are either naive or simply in bad faith. Naivity is a little less bad, but I also suspect many of bad faith. The Compact is not a text for or against migration and it is indeed not a binding treaty. However, it is a plea for cooperation and cooperation in order to be able to control migration better, by tackling its causes, with external borders of the European Union, with the fight against the horrible and detestable smuggling of human beings and with the taking back of illegal immigrants on our territory by the countries of origin. For the fist, these are a few reasons why the Open Group supports this Compact, Prime Minister, and why we urge you to go to Marrakech. That was the deal in your government. We have taken sides: we are against populism and for realistic cooperation. I expect nothing else in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the MR on the Migration Pact is clear and well known: our party supports the Migration Pact, which has been negotiated for almost two years and will be adopted at the end of December in New York. Why does the MR support this Pact? At least for five essential reasons. First of all, the Covenant provides a common vision, it provides fundamental principles that States of origin, transit States, but also States of destination will share in the future. Secondly, the Pact is the result of multilateral, intergovernmental work to better manage migration issues, and the MR is very committed to the multilateral process. The Pact also provides a framework for combating trafficking in human beings, as well as for a more effective return and admission policy. Moreover, the Covenant is non-binding; as has been said, it is a commitment. Lastly, it was respectful of the sovereignty of States since each State would have latitude to implement that text internally. These are the five reasons why the MR supports this Pact. Let it be very clear! Prime Minister, could you remind us of the procedures, the important steps that have been taken in the last two years on this issue? Could you also give us the state of play of the consultations between the various Belgian federal and international authorities? Could you recall the position of the other Member States? Why is the European Union not yet in a position to agree today? What would be the impact of challenging the Covenant on countries of origin, transit countries and countries of destination?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u30	Mr President, we have finally heard the majority on the Migration Pact. It is an essential subject that concerns the lives of hundreds of thousands of women, men and children. It should be debated here in this Parliament rather than in the press and through cartoons. This subject is too serious to limit itself to words as reductive as those of Mr. De Roover: "It only exists in English. It is not binding. There is therefore no reason to go to Marrakech." Prime Minister, let us resume the debate where we left him last Wednesday. You told us that this text had been worked on for two years with the other countries and federated entities, that it had been the subject of consultation and agreement in Belgium. You confirmed that you had given our country the floor to sign it on 27 September before the United Nations. But you also said that, like some countries, you were hesitant. In other words: "I'd like to, but the N-VA doesn't want to. We'll see." Meanwhile, the franc fell to the MR. You sent your staves, sirs. Clarinval and Miller, speaking in the press and asserting that your majority partner has been running since 2014 after the Vlaams Belang and that your government might do so too. "We're not going to race populism to please the N-VA," said Mr Clarinval in the press this morning, for those who haven't read it. Although late, this awareness may be salutary. We'll see about it. But what damage while waiting for our country's credibility, for the strength of our institutions, for Belgium's place in the concert des Nations, for the sustainability of our model of consultation and social security, in relation to the urgency of climate, environmental and humanitarian challenges! Which camp will you choose? The brave and visionary or the fearful and populist? That is the question. This pact, are you going to sign it? With or without the N-VA? In this Parliament, there is clearly a majority who support it and a text, which we have tabled with Ecolo-Groen, which is enough to vote. Simply, Prime Minister, after you become aware of your wanderings, move from speech to action and sign this Covenant!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, migration is a complex and complex challenge. We are convinced that it is necessary to adopt a clear and strong approach to migration. That was the choice of the federal government four years ago, with a clear commitment and a strong government agreement. That's the government's choice. We are determined to fully assume our responsibilities and duties, which largely fall under international law. We have done so by substantially increasing the number of humanitarian visas, by assuming the necessary and adequate consequences of the migration crisis that we have been confronted with, and by constantly ensuring, in European and international fora, that this conviction is defended for a firm and humane policy. Human, because it is compatible with the fundamental rules of humanity and international law. Close, because we do not accept a form of angelism or laxism. We do believe that migration requires controlled borders, controlled borders, and partnerships with other countries in and outside Europe. This is therefore a matter not only for the sovereignty of this Parliament – as has been said – but also for European and international cooperation. That's a first point. Secondly, I have had the opportunity to confirm several times that a non-binding process has been launched at international level within the framework of the UN over the last two years. It is possible to discuss the consequences of this on the national policies of Belgium and other European countries. But both in the English version and in the Dutch version of the text it expressly states that it is not binding. Moreover, it contains, in my view, important elements in accordance with the fundamental objectives of our coalition agreement. A number of the objectives of this draft text, a draft resolution and not a draft treaty, Mr Calvo, are in line with and compatible with the government agreement. For example, the text states that the root causes of migration need to be further addressed. This is obviously a widely shared point, in my opinion, within the majority and probably also within the opposition. When we read about this ambition to mobilize more to fight the traffickers of human beings who exploit poverty, misery, poverty and tragedy, it is a conviction that is widely shared and it is the meaning of the action that has been taken over the past four years by the government to multiply actions to fight against smugglers and traffickers of human beings. Some in the opposition, at times, have criticized us for this firmness in an attempt to combat this type of method and mechanics. In this text, for example, there is an anchor for tomorrow, starting from a text that is not legally binding, even though discussions are still open in this regard, cooperation with countries outside Europe that have return and readmission policies. Return policy is crucial. We have identified this in another difficult aspect of migration, namely transmigration. We have noted, with often harsh criticism from the opposition, that effective return policies are crucial to working efficiently at the level of the federal government. I think that there is a framework within which progress can be made in this area. My opinion is well known and you repeated it. During September, I expressed a clear opinion in the context of the United Nations General Assembly. That's a fact. I have expressed my view in this regard in my time. What has been the situation for a few weeks? I'll be very clear. Since then, it has been true – but not only in Belgium and only in the federal government and Parliament, but also in most other European countries, as was rightly pointed out – that questions have been raised, debates have taken place, hesitations have been expressed, objections have been raised to this text. The political responsibility of a prime minister is not to be intimidated by an umpteenth effect of a rostrum or a round, but to conduct the debate on the substance, objectifying the arguments and trying to discern the true of the false. That is the political responsibility and moral authority of my office as I see it, Mr Laaouej. You have to stay cool and be calm when others lose their calm. Care must be taken to remain focused on the substance, facts and realities. What is the decision of the federal government and the four parties supporting it? We have clearly chosen the next two-track policy in the coming days. Firstly, we will continue to work on the arguments and the facts, as Mr Verherstraeten has said. In doing so, we will address the question of what is in the text, what its implications are and what the possibilities are and what not to achieve with such a text additional results for a better and more efficient migration policy. Without populism or angelism! That's the first point. Secondly, since we are convinced that multilateralism is a fundamental framework, which is no surprise, we are so committed at European and international level, with the result that our country was elected non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. And it is precisely, ladies and gentlemen of the majority and of the opposition, because we believe in this multilateral dimension that we cannot refuse to see what is happening in other European countries. Hence the second important point: we are working day after day – and we are going to continue our task – with our European counterparts – who are currently participating in the same kind of discussion – on this text and on how to effectively manage the issue of migration. We will deliberate when the time comes. I mean, I want to be very clear. I am well aware of the responsibility of my office. I have measured this quite well some time ago when it was a question of defending another fundamental international agreement for our country and for Europe: I am referring to CETA. At that time, I was fully mobilized when I was confronted with tribune effects and moral lessons. My mobilization was successful, as evidenced by the increase in the rate of our exports – 57% – following the signing of this agreement. I still remember the tragic accusations that were made at that time. At that time, I demonstrated an unwavering determination and an extremely strong conviction. Within the government, we are going to give ourselves the means to continue the work on the substance and by examining the arguments, but I am well aware of the height of my personal responsibility in this matter and the meaning of the message I sent to the United Nations last September. I am determined to ensure that the image and credibility of Belgium, as well as the effectiveness of our migration policy, are a reality. And I'm committed to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u32	Mr Prime Minister, I was just looking at colleagues to make sure that they were correct, but we did not ask what your personal opinion was. We have asked you what the position of your government is. That is what a prime minister is asked for. A professor, a Member of Parliament, a journalist can be asked what he or she thinks of the UN migration pact. The Prime Minister is asked what the government thinks of the UN Migration Pact! You have seen Mr De Roover. He won't convince you anymore. The N-VA has never fallen as deep as it is today. She even made a plea to stay home. In fact, it is literally said to your face that if you go to the UN, pollution is due to CO2 emissions and that it has no value. You, as Prime Minister, are being humiliated here in a full house on the eve of our participation in the UN Security Council? I don't understand. I don't understand why our Prime Minister doesn't just say to the N-VA: "Basta, it's over." We don't live in an N-VA dictatorship. Indeed, Mr De Roover, we live in the House of Democracy. Colleagues, in a case Mr De Roover was right. I agreed with a case. This is the House of Democracy. Prime Minister, this is the House of Democracy, where representatives of the people can speak out. The majority, your own government party, has made every effort in the world not to vote on our motion for a resolution today. You're forcing me to go further. In accordance with Rule 54, our group will present an order motion to the President of the Chamber here and now, which will not allow us to vote next week, which will not wait until Charles Michel's study office has written more legal texts. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for the work they have done on this subject. That is what Parliament must do today. You don't have to leave, because I'm putting another motion on that. I want you to stay here. I want you to follow the debate. I want a prime minister instead of a follower of Mr De Roover. I therefore ask you, pursuant to Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, to attend the debate when Parliament gives its opinion on the UN migration pact here and now. That movie has lasted long enough. Let us vote on that. I'm curious about the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no longer a government, nor is there a majority. I support the words of my good friend Peter De Roover, who rightly told the Prime Minister to stay home. Our Parliament is indeed in Brussels and not in Marrakech. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, take your responsibility and dare to bring the vote to Parliament, just as we will do in Switzerland. Ladies and gentlemen, Winston Churchill already knew: "Never washed a good crisis." This is a crisis and it is a serious crisis on a fundamental issue, where we can make a difference and listen to the citizens for once instead of the European political elite. This means that we do not throw our sovereignty overboard but protect it; that means that we do not open our borders but close them; that means that we do not promote and facilitate immigration, but that we slow down and stop it; that means that illegality is not tolerated but that it is punished and that it is dealt with harshly. Prime Minister, if we do not want Charleroi and Liège, Brussels, Ghent and Antwerp to become Marrakech, then we must not sign the Marrakech Pact and never approve it. Do not approve of the pact and for once do not listen to the N-VA, even to Flemish Interest, Viktor Orbán or US President Trump. Listen to the people. The people will tell you that it does not like that pact, that it does not like mass immigration and that it wants safe and therefore closed borders. No to Marrakech!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u34	Mr. President, Prime Minister, you claim to be clear. After your intervention, nothing is more obscure! It is still unclear whether, in keeping with the commitment you have made in the rostrum of the United Nations, you will sign the Marrakesh Pact. We still don't know. That was the subject of our questions. No answer! On the other hand, what is clear today is that you are still not determined to put at a standstill those who, within your government, assume without shame, without scruples, without modesty, the fact of being the vehicle of the far right. I repeat, the intervention of the far-right parties in this rostrum clearly shows that today your government is being polluted by people who have turned their backs on the values of human rights, international law and the minimum of respect that we, as a democrat, must have for human life. This is the teaching of our debate today. Prime Minister, I would add that you have taken stock of a number of principles embodied in the Marrakesh Pact. But we follow you on your understanding of this pact. As you have pointed out, it is indeed not binding. On the other hand, it is an act by the concert of nations, by those who, in the world, consider that there is the path of regression, the path of those who do not want to hear about human rights. On the contrary, some consider this to be the foundation of our civilization. Prime Minister, you still have the opportunity today to reaffirm the camp you choose and to stop those who want to pollute your political action with considerations which, unfortunately, remind us of the dark times of our history.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u35	Prime Minister, I have not heard anything in your answer about our fellow citizens. Think they're not part of your concern! Prime Minister, take into account the unease of your fellow citizens! Also take into account a poll that said that in Wallonia, three out of four Walloons don't feel at home anymore! Our fellow citizens consider that everyone who comes to us and who contributes to the wealth of our country is welcome. On the other hand, these same people refuse to allow their entitlement to social benefits, for which they have contributed a lifetime, to be reduced because the number of beneficiaries of these social benefits is higher than the number of persons who contribute to them. Think about it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u36	Prime Minister, your government is deeply divided. This was very clear here. The position of the N-VA was repeated. It is unequivocal, while yours, unlike last week, is once again an exercise of political contortion. What do you say to us today, Prime Minister? You tell us that your responsibility is to examine this pact seriously and objectively. But what did you do before you went to the UN? Did you go and declare that you were going to sign it without examining it? You are now looking at a text in depth as you have already committed yourself to the United Nations. It's a funny Prime Minister's responsibility! You also explain to us that you must consult at European level. You might have thought about it before, because the work is not dated today. Your answer is amazing! It obviously appears to be a maneuver to get you out of it and to avoid choosing your side, Prime Minister! To the parties of your majority who supported the Democratic camp – we have clearly heard it on the CD&V side, on the Open Vld and, more discreetly, on the MR side – I say: Call on your Prime Minister to choose your side, that of the Democrats and especially not that of the populists or that of the far right!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u37	Mr Prime Minister, we have just heard from Mr De Roover that the text of the migration pact would only exist in English. However, I have the text in French and there are versions in English, Arabic and Chinese, of course. There is a translation into several official languages. Mr Prime Minister, you said that there is also a translation into Dutch. Should we then assume that your Secretary of State has discussed this text with you without having the Dutch translation? It's really amazing. It's really about fake news. On such a subject, it's really amazing. This has been translated into all the official languages of the United Nations and, of course, at the level of the Belgian services. We can see what the purpose is here. Prime Minister, I expected a clear answer from you. We did not have a clear answer. You have given your personal opinion as Prime Minister. Every week, the president reminds us that the government is united and that every member of the government speaks on behalf of the whole government. Mr President, have you heard that today? I didn't hear that. I heard a Prime Minister speaking alone for himself in his own name. But we wanted a response from the government. The reason is clear: it is the content of this text. That's what bothers you. The text is quite clear. For example, the goal of saving lives and putting in place coordinated international action to find missing migrants. This obviously bothers a secretary of state who attacks the organization Médecins sans Frontières, who wants to save migrants. That is what is disturbing in this text. This debate is not just a formal one. There is a fundamental question: do we want a human policy? Or are we joining Mr Franken to build camps in Tunisia, a country with 11 million inhabitants, to send people back and let them die in camps? That is the debate! The community of nations must find alternatives to the solutions of right-wing populists. Prime Minister, I would have hoped for a slightly more courageous answer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u38	Thank you for your reply, Prime Minister. Your answer has made it clear that you have a problem in your government. You have defended the policy you have pursued. You have defended international policy, but you have not been able to answer the question of whether you will sign the pact with a simple yes or no. In your defence, you have addressed the opposition a few times, but the opposition in this file is in your government, Prime Minister. That's your problem. You have a problem in your government, but you dance around the file. Every day that there is uncertainty about your position, whether or not you will sign, is a day when our country loses credibility. Mr De Roover has already given the impetus. We live in a democratic country. If you want a majority, come to the Chamber. You have a majority here to sign the pact. Then we can stop the polemic. You yourself have called for the fight against populism. Stop the fighting. Stop this polemic. Make sure that the pact is signed so that we can all talk about people's problems again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u39	Mr President, Houston, we have a problem, a big problem. It's very clear. I heard you say there were still doubts. I didn't hear those doubts. I heard that there will be further work on the arguments. So the government's decision is already known. Dear Theo, I advise you to go to the gym to exercise your muscles, either to carry the Prime Minister's suitcases to Marrakech or to take your bags and get out of this government, if you still want to save your face. Prime Minister, this is not about binding or non-binding nature. The issue is whether or not the pact is voluntary. International courts have already seriously reformed our migration law. They have all done so on the basis of texts such as the migration pact that is before us today. Pushbacks, for example, are forbidden, as they are now considered a collective expulsion. Even the use of extreme force to cross a border seems to be no longer an obstacle to safeguarding his rights. This is evident from a recent statement in the framework of the Spanish exclaves in North Africa. We must have a serious debate, ladies and gentlemen, because judges of an international institution do not have to answer. We need a debate on our country's sovereignty. It's high time for that. In the meantime, we have lost two years because of a lack of file knowledge, but bear in mind that there is a next pact ahead of us: the Pact of Refugees, and that more are coming towards us. Please allow us to discuss these matters thoroughly in advance in Parliament, so that we do not have to have discussions like today's.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u40	Mr President, I have listened carefully to all of you. I was somewhat surprised when my good colleague De Roover asked whether or not the Pact was binding. You answered that, Prime Minister, but that answer had already been given. The answer was given in Parliament on 25 April by Secretary of State Francken. I quote: 'We support the intention to achieve an orderly, legal migration based on rights and respecting the sovereignty of each state. In doing so, account should be taken of the sustainable development objectives." Now it comes: "We support the non-mandatory nature of the GCM, which must guarantee a strict follow-up mechanism." The Secretary of State said so himself! I was even more unpleasantly surprised when I heard the question raised, if the migration pact is non-binding, why we would then sign it. Fortunately, in the history of our country, many government members have already moved abroad, also to sign declarations of intent across various policy areas. Nor is that the opinion of some members of the government. The Marrakech Declaration is a Memorandum of Understanding of May 2018 and that text is non-binding. Prime Minister, however, several of your ministers have signed this text and I fully support it. Even if a declaration is non-binding, its signature can be beneficial and valuable. Following the signature of the Marrakech Declaration, I found a statement from the Secretary of State on the website of the N-VA Group. I quote: 'Because anyone who thinks or tells the world that Europe can simply solve the problem of illegal migration and residence on its own, which is wandering. Only through an intensive neighbourhood policy can we achieve results." Mr Secretary of State, I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u41	Mr Verherstraeten, you have to finish. You have already exceeded your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u42	Mr President, I will conclude. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder what has changed since then. The lyrics are, in the ultimate phase, even a little more intertwined. Then what changed after the signature of that text, what changed after the Prime Minister's statement in New York? I do not mean what has changed in Hungary, under Orbán, or in some other countries, but I do ask what has changed in substance. If something has changed in substance, then I am always prepared to listen to these arguments and then I want to talk about them and look for solutions. If an interpretative clarification is needed, we will take care of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u43	Mr Verherstraeten, you must stop your speech now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u44	Prime Minister, migration policy presupposes rights and obligations. For our group, they must remain in balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u45	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is an interesting afternoon. Lesson 1: For the left, it is absolutely not important for people to be informed in their own Dutch. The debate should not be held by the population. It will be run high-brow by a certain intellectual elite that some count on. Well, for us, this is worth a broad discussion, so it is also necessary to inform the public widely. We are not turning our backs on the citizens. Lesson 2: quite a few groups - and anyone who feels addressed must feel addressed - have here today drowned the idea of seeking to speak with a single European voice. It is not important for them whether Eastern European democracies go along with a certain line of thinking, because then they are called populist, with a misapprehension for the European electorate that makes me embarrassed to the cheeks. The Prime Minister has called for a party, and I will do so again. Mr Prime Minister, will you be a bridge builder or will you be the sealer of the split of Europe, as the left-hand side wishes today? That is the question on the table today. Are you breaking the tradition of being a bridge builder in Europe, or are you putting an end to it today? That is the question to which the left has already given an answer, which is to separate you from Eastern Europe, push you away from Eastern Europe. That is not our European belief. Lesson 3: When it comes to seeking international solutions and international contacts, the champion of international agreements is in this hemisphere. It is Theo Francken, who has concluded agreements with various states in an atmosphere of consultation and realism. That is what we are arguing for today, because it is not enough to stick to an agreement at international level to say straight away that it would be an excellent agreement. Next lesson, this is the house of democracy, on which we agree. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u46	Mr Van Rompuy, it is indeed quite historic that you do belong to the majority this time, this legislature has rarely happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u47	Mr De Roover, you really need to finish now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a house of democracy and it is a house of democracy. Make sure you don't throw that privilege too gibberish. Last lesson, and this is a basic lesson in politics. Prime Minister, you are the head of government. This means that you can only act on behalf of the government, in the name of the four coalition parties. Our group will give you the opportunity to convince us. Until today, fundamental questions remain. We would like an answer to that. [[Tumult]] Until then, you can only act as Prime Minister on behalf of the four.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to be polemical, I am going to go back to the essence of what you said, Prime Minister. It was a good thing to give an overview of all the steps taken in recent weeks, months, years to come to this text. I follow you when you say today that you will do everything you can to respond effectively to questions that are asked not only in our country but in many countries of the European Union. I'll give you space for that. I know, of course, that the heating of the debate is also taking place in other European countries. You are doing your best to go to Marrakech with a European front as united as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, in other debates we do not talk about the UN, we talk about the European Union and we say that the European Union should simply be able to show more uniformity in the area of migration. We are also away from that with the procedures, the read mission policy and so on. I understand that you are doing this exercise in consultation with the EU partners. Secondly, I know which consents and approvals have been given in advance. On behalf of Open Vld I would therefore like to say that every trial will end. There will come a time when you will effectively accept your responsibility on behalf of the Belgian Government. You said quite clearly, on the basis of what you knew a few months ago, what you committed yourself to in your speech to the United Nations. This is not a failure divers for me, but this has a huge political significance for me. In a democracy and in a system of majority and opposition, the leader of the government takes an attitude at some point. We support you in that. I have listened carefully to the other majority groups. For you, for me and for the Open Vld Group, your statement was sufficient. Each group of your majority will have to accept its responsibility at the appropriate time. Let's get this straight. At some point, there's the deadline. You may act as you have announced here. I have no problem whatsoever that in the meantime you are consulting with European countries to arrive at a position that is as united as possible, but it is clear to us that you will sign this declaration effectively. You will go to Marrakech, with the support of the Open Group as a majority. Each majority group will have to assume its responsibilities at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as we are concerned, the Prime Minister's answer was very clear. We obviously trust... [[Hilarity on benches]] There were many of you who didn't understand it! We'll explain it to you! We therefore support the government because we have confidence in its ability to dialogue and reach agreements at European level. In September, 27 European countries agreed to this text. Today, a dialogue is under way. The government must engage in this dialogue and find as broad a consensus as possible, as the Prime Minister said. So things are very clear. On the other hand, I am a little concerned when I hear, for example, the remarks made in this forum by the PTB, which accuses the government of being responsible for the deaths in Afghanistan. This kind of talk is completely irresponsible and I couldn't not react. I am also a little tired of hearing the words of Ecolo-Groen, the PS and the cdH, who, every week, fire all the wood in this gallery and show a lot of imagination and creativity. Every week, for the past four years, they have used all the files to satisfy their greatest fantasy, namely to bring down this government. I think, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that you will be disappointed again!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u51	Prime Minister, the world is at a turning point and we must choose our side. Having read one of your thinner blades, Mr. Miller, which told the press this morning that it is the MR who sets the line for this government, we had great hope for hearing from you today to clarify the government's position and to take a leading position. But, obviously, you continue to retreat by pretending to have to re-examine a text on which you have worked for two years and which you have approved in your words in the rostrum of the United Nations. The six-month term in the legislature has damaged Belgium's image and pushed us back on key objectives: the Millennium Development Goals, the European targets for combating poverty, and our climate goals. I do not think that you will be able to save your balance with the vote on this Pact, but you can at least improve it. We call on you, on behalf of Belgium's historic role in diplomatic and international matters, in order to contribute to effective human solutions to the phenomenon of migration, to sign this Covenant. We have prepared several texts with the Ecolo-Groen group to help you. Yesterday, in the Conference of Presidents, we proposed that, by consensus, these texts could be put on the agenda of the Committee on External Relations next week, so that we can count on each other, so that democracy can be expressed and the majority of this Parliament, which is clearly gathered around this vote, can speak. You refused it at this point. It is still time to change our mind and put Belgium back in the position that it should never have left: that of a country which, at the international level, contributes to balanced solutions and to a world-wide life with respect for the weakest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I have received a first order motion from Mr Calvo, the text of which reads as follows: 'After the Prime Minister's debate and reply, the Chamber decides without reservation to support the UN migration pact.' I must tell you that this is a motion calling on the Court to rule on the substance of the matter. However, this is not an order motion and therefore it is inadmissible. I have received a second point of order, the text of which reads as follows: 'Parliament decides to proceed immediately to the discussion of the resolution on the UN Migration Pact'. This is a point of order, it is therefore declared admissible and will be discussed at a useful time in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. A third text, an action, was tabled by the Ecolo-Green Group, on the basis of Rule 50, on the request for the government to be present, which reads as follows: 'Parliament asks for the Prime Minister to be present at the meeting'. I assume that it concerns the discussion of the resolution we have just discussed. That too is not a problem at the moment, because the Prime Minister is present. So this is pretty simple. Depending on the ruling on the second order motion declared admissible, we will see whether we should apply this requirement or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u53	Mr President, thank you in advance for declaring my mood of order admissible. I would also like to explain this sense of order and make use of my right to speak in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u54	You may do so at the time when this order motion is being discussed. However, we shall first finish the oral questions. I will apply the Rules of Procedure, which literally stipulates that the order will be discussed 'at a useful time'. So that is after the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u55	Mr President, you know that I am quite patient. So it's okay for me to discuss the order motion later. However, I would ask the Prime Minister to be present in the light of Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure. If the Prime Minister does not wish to attend the discussion, I think we are going to have a very extensive procedure. That would cause the substantive debate to snow under, and I do not think that is the intention. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister about this. Then I would like to put the explanation of my order motion in brackets.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u56	Mr Calvo, the oral questions will first be put to the vote because there are still quite a few. The oral questions shall have priority. Then we shall return to what you have submitted. Let's be clear about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u57	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u58	Mr Calvo, it does not make much sense for you to insist further, because now we are going to continue with the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u59	Mr President, I have resigned to the later discussion of this order of business, but the Prime Minister has just ostentatiously indicated by shaking his head that he does not wish to attend this discussion. Consequently, I would like to explain my order motion now. I understand that it is annoying for the Prime Minister because he has a personal opinion, but no majority. However, I insist on having this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u60	Mr Calvo, we shall do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, namely at a useful time. We shall therefore first deal with the oral questions. Prime Minister, I must be fair and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u61	Mr President, I listened carefully to the various speeches on an extremely important subject. I have also listened carefully to the great lessons of democracy, populism. Mr Calvo, the first rule in parliamentary democracy is to respect the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. We cannot, on our own, impose changes to Parliament's Rules of Procedure. There is an agreed agenda. I propose that we respect it. The agenda can, of course, be changed, but in accordance with established procedures. On the other hand, I was present and will be as much as necessary for topical issues, as I do every time with great pleasure on Thursday afternoon. For the rest, I have no intention of dancing like Mr Calvo whistles!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u62	I thought Parliament's agenda was determined by Parliament and not by the government. (Conversation on the banks)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u64	Mr Prime Minister, after the spectacle we have just seen here, perhaps we can return to reality for many people. One in five citizens live in energy poverty. Today, the electricity price is rising again. Yesterday we all read in the newspaper that our current is already many times more expensive than in the neighbouring countries. The current uncertainty, the uncertainty about the energy shortage, also continues to increase. We are already talking about powerboats and aircraft engines. Prime Minister, I am very glad that you are now prepared to answer our questions, because I have asked you a few times. However, they were always referred to Mrs Marghem. Thank you for your reply today. I would like to confront you with two statements you have made. Firstly, during Question Time in October, you promised that the additional price would be paid by Electrabel as a result of the failure of the nuclear reactors. In the meantime, we've moved on for six weeks. In the meantime, prices have risen and people have to pay them as well. However, nothing has been arranged and nothing will be arranged for payment by Electrabel, Prime Minister. This is going to be a procedure that may take years. Much easier would be to lower VAT on electricity. My first question is therefore what will actually happen. In what way will you oblige Electrabel to do this? Please, just be clear for once. You made a second promise. You said that there was a commitment from Mrs Merkel that Germany would help to solve our power shortage by no longer using our high-voltage lines in such a way that our high-voltage lines, which are now being used for the transport of energy from one part of Germany, could in future be used by Belgium. We are six weeks after that promise, Prime Minister. In the meantime, we know that this is still not settled and we note that prices are rising, precisely because it is not regulated, because we cannot use these high-voltage lines. So I have a very simple question on this too, and I expect a clear answer: how will you deliver on the promise you made to us, and on the promise that Mrs Merkel was supposed to have made?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u65	Mr. President, Prime Minister, do you hear the anger that is rumbling in the public today? People are totally crushed by energy bills that fly away. There is an increase in gas and electricity bills of more than 400 euros for this year. Just for electricity, it's 110 euros, because of the shutdown nuclear power plants, which you know very well. This is in addition to the 120 euros already weighing on each household since you decided with your government in 2015 to increase the VAT on electricity by 6 to 21%. We know the precariousness of a large number of households. This is repeated today in the entire press. We are witnessing an increase in poverty in our country. We see the sacrifices that every household, every family must make at the end of each month. Prime Minister, we have the impression that this leaves you completely indifferent! I hear you have solutions; we'll talk about them later. We know today, because we have heard Mrs Marghem, that the solution will not come from Electrabel. As my colleague has just pointed out, in October, you inflated your chest in this gallery to tell us loud and clear that consumers, families, households would not pay the increase in the price of electricity due to the government's mismanagement of security of supply. You said it! It's been two months now...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u66	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u67	Prime Minister, don't interrupt me. It's been two months... can I continue? If you keep talking... do you want me to go on?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u68	Go on, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u69	That's how it is. A Prime Minister must also respect democracy and listen to parliamentarians. It's been two months since we've seen anything coming. Like the previous ones, my questions are very simple: will consumers be compensated or not? If so, when? For the moment, every month, they pay the increase in VAT. If there is compensation, how much will it rise and when will it be paid to families? I don't think there'll be any compensation. It will be postponed to the Greek calends. So I'm just asking for a strong gesture: immediately reduce VAT through the programme law of the end of the year. You have that power, that strength, that chance maybe. I expect a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to give a nuanced answer to the questions that were not particularly nuanced. The government's main priority in recent weeks has been security of supply. We have already provided a great deal of information here in Parliament during the political debate on this subject. We have done what was planned with the task force over the last few weeks. It's hard work to ensure maximum supply. We have made clear progress, but we remain very alert. My colleagues in the Council of Ministers and the nuclear cabinet are very attentive to maximum security of supply. We are also looking forward to the independent decisions of the FANC, which will certainly have an effect in the next few weeks. The first concern is security of supply. In recent weeks, together with the task forces, we have multiplied the measures, for example in the context of relations with our neighbouring countries, Germany and France, inter alia by mobilising a number of solutions that strengthen supply capacities. We know that, in the coming weeks, we will have to continue this work. This is how the operator is mobilized with the government to assume its responsibilities. That's a first point. Secondly, the question of price. I say it with kindness, calmness and sobriety, but I hear tissue of untruths as is the case every week in almost all of the cases that are dealt with here. I regret it, but it's your choice to practice this way. It is not in this way that I practice, as far as I am concerned. What's the situation? In connection with the unavailability of part of the nuclear fleet which is the responsibility of the operator and not of the government, Mrs Lalieux! - what you said is absurd - I have voluntarily or coerced myself to have the operator take charge of it. We are working on this exactly as I am committed to it, on the basis of a report from the CREG and the support of the National Bank. We are also working on these issues with lawyers and judges to consider, on a voluntary or coerced basis, the modalities of taking into account, of an abnormal price increase during the month of October, which is linked to the unavailability of part of the park as a result of decisions taken by Electrabel. I continue, I sign and I am confident that in the coming weeks we will be able to come with more operational and precise proposals on the table of the Council of Ministers. It bothers you; it bothers you but it is reality. Finally, last point, I am quite astonished to hear, once again, your concerns about purchasing power. Indeed, if there is a concern for purchasing power, why did you then vote against the tax shift, which represents, for low wages, up to an additional 140 euros per month, an additional thirteenth month? Why did you vote against 100% of the welfare envelope to raise the lowest pensions and allowances for people with disabilities? Why, systematically, do you vote against measures that create employment for 218,000 people, whose purchasing power is valued by this economic dynamic? You no longer have any credibility, because in truth, for a very long time, you have chosen to run after the extremists of the Belgian Labour Party. Zero credibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u71	Mr Prime Minister, I do not really understand you. You could find a majority in Parliament, together with various groups, in order to achieve this. The security of supply is also an objective of ours and, of course, we support the task force in this respect. However, every time you attack the opposition. You speak against what I have just quoted as statements by you. Well, I'll literally read out what you said in the State of the Union. "Price increases related to the abnormal unavailability of the nuclear fleet will have to be charged to ENGIE Electrabel". That's what you said. Isn't that what you said?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u72	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, I do not dispute the quality of the parliamentary report. I did indeed... [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u73	Be factual.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u74	Mr President, I have just quoted the full report. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u75	Mrs Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u76	Prime Minister, I did not know that your own statements would make you so nervous. I was just reading from your State of the Union. Once again, we are now several weeks away, but nothing exactly has yet been laid down. Everyone here realizes that this will lead to legal proceedings. After all, do you think ENGIE Electrabel will just accept that? Of course not!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u77	Mrs. Temmerman, can you finish, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u78	Prime Minister, you say that people's purchasing power has increased considerably today. Now, I would advise you to just talk to the people for once, because your statement is not correct. They were given the index jump to process; they received several invoices and now the increase in the electricity price is on top of that. (Protests from the Prime Minister) Prime Minister, I have listened to you. Now, listen to us. One in five people live in energy poverty. Your policy will increase that number to two or even three out of five. You're responsible for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u79	Prime Minister, I'm also going to ask you to stay cool because I find it very unpleasant to say, because she's a woman again, "keep your nerves". It's unworthy of a prime minister! I repeat. I would never have said that. When you're Prime Minister in a democracy, you can stand the opposition. If you can't handle it, you'll get the consequences yourself!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u80	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u81	Keep yelling at the lie, Prime Minister! We're not interested. What interests us is that people get out of poverty, that people can eat and fill their caddies. Prime Minister, does your tax shift affect pensioners and job seekers? No! Does VAT affect pensioners and job seekers? Yes, since 2015! Will the increase in electricity affect them? Yes! Does the index have an impact on workers? Yes! So stop your lies! Mr Prime Minister, I do believe that Electrabel will bring a lawsuit against the Belgian State not to pay the supplements when you have a hand on VAT and you know that! Electrabel has been paying 400 million less taxes since 2013. You know that when you look at your budget. The population and families pay 15% more taxes for gas and electricity. That is the result of your government's policy, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u82	Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to make an important distinction between yellow vests and black hoods. While the former reflect a legitimate anger on the part of the population, the latter commit acts of violence that are unacceptable and that must be firmly addressed. We condemn them unreservedly. In fact, you promise the utmost firmness in the face of overflows and we encourage you to do so as well. I ask you, however, Prime Minister, not to hide behind this violence so as not to send a clear message to the real yellow vests. I regret that, in your communication this morning, you have limited yourself to this greater firmness without responding to the concerns expressed by the yellow vests and the peaceful anger of a part of the population who can no longer tie both ends. No one in the government spoke about this anger. But the deafening silence of the federal government nourishes resentment. This deafening silence on the part of your Government may appear to be contempt for a group of the population that has been largely tested by the iniquitous measures that you have taken in a range of areas. You must break this deafening silence in order to avoid the recovery of these frustrations by extreme and populist movements. A responsible response is needed to drive out the populist response. This deafening silence of your government is interpreted as a contempt for the thousands of people who can no longer tie the two ends, who do not understand why kerosene is not taxed at European level while, at the same time, the excise duty on fuel increases and those who even need a vehicle to get to work or drive their children to school have no alternative. It is interpreted as contempt for those who do not understand why your government is increasing fuel excises, without improving the supply of public transportation. We fully support the fight against global warming and the entry into an ecological transition, but it must be humane, acceptable and sustainable. Prime Minister, what measures are you going to take against breakers to restore public order and security and how are you going to respond to the screams of the yellow vest movement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u83	Prime Minister, the yellow vest movement began our sixth day of demonstration. Without judging the substance of the demands of this movement, I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, what security measures are being taken or to be taken quickly in the light of the spillovers that occur in the margins of these protests. The press now dares to use the word "riots". We have all seen the stigma of these acts of pure violence, particularly in the vicinity of Feluy's depot: burnt tankers, cut-off trees, torn lighting posts. Again this morning, the press informed us that a RTBF car would have been pebbled. And we saw RTBF personnel who were taken by the protesters. Prime Minister, in view of the seriousness of this situation, you have already spoken twice publicly, yesterday and this morning, correctly indicating that everyone had the right to express an opinion, that everyone had the right to demonstrate, but that we have no right to do so in violence, nor to break it. These are indeed intolerable facts. We must be vigilant and provide prompt responses to ensure the safety of all. When I say everyone, it's the citizens, sometimes including protesters, journalists, truck drivers and law enforcement. Prime Minister, what is the state of affairs today with regard to the arrests that have already taken place? Do we have an idea of the people behind these events? Do we have a profile? The cabinet of the Minister of the Interior indicated that the authorities concerned had agreed on a common strategy integrating the federal and local levels. To the extent that the federal authority is prepared to provide all the necessary assistance to local authorities, have calls for assistance already been made? What means are envisaged to be made available?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, as you have said in our country, the right to demonstrate, the right to express one's opinion and discontent are guaranteed and must be fully guaranteed. I have said it forcefully several times in the last few hours. Of course, this must be done with due respect for the rule of law, in a peaceful manner, and we condemn, I hope, on all sides, the acts of violence and provocations and the spillovers that we have just witnessed. I would also like to condemn in the strongest terms the obstacles to freedom of information, since journalists have been involved in these movements. I would also like to stress the importance of the work carried out by the security forces under the responsibility of the various authorities, in particular the Minister of the Interior, who will provide more information on the security management aspect. Initiatives are being taken and will continue to be taken to ensure that there is no impunity and that those who have committed criminal or delinquent acts can be punished to the extent of their actions. Mrs Matz, you are addressing the substantive issue by distinguishing between those who behave as breakers and those who want to express an opinion in a democratic and peaceful manner. It has been four years since the establishment of this government that we have been mobilized to try to meet the concerns: strengthening economic activity and purchasing power. We are well aware of the pressure when the geopolitical situation or the decisions taken by this Parliament on excise duties affect purchasing power. And we are consistent because – in terms of mobility – we are trying, with this investment pact, to boost, improve and strengthen alternative offers. We are well aware that the fight against global warming must be accompanied by progressive measures that can help our tax instrument to take into account the more polluting nature of certain products and gradually encourage other types of behaviour. This is the meaning of the decision that was made through the tax shift. You know that, in this context, it is a tax cut that has been chosen. I am not saying this, but the Plan Bureau and the European Commission: we see a substantial reduction in the tax and parafiscal burden on labour thanks to this tax shift, which we absolutely want to preserve. So, yes, we want to pursue these economic and social reforms. Yes, we hear the messages addressed to us. This is also the meaning of the decisions taken in terms of strengthening the lowest pensions, which have been increased seven times. These measures will be consolidated as of 1 January 2019 through the full implementation of the tax shift in favour of purchasing power, the effects of which will be beneficial to low and medium wages. This provision will, I repeat, lead to an increase in purchasing power of around 140 euros per month for low wages. Yes, we hear the messages; we are not deaf. We are always ready to debate and we are doing so in Parliament to reflect on how to strengthen economic dynamics and support purchasing power. On the issue of security and public order, we will be very firm. Over the next few days, we will maintain our vigilance to ensure that security and public order are respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u85	Mr President, Mr Pivin has asked some specific questions about the actions and reaction of the police. First of all, it is important to recall that, in this case, the maintenance of public order is managed by the governors of the provinces of Hainaut and Liège. Within the Crisis Centre, we follow the events minute by minute. Our objective is twofold: first, we must create as precise an image as possible of the situation on the spot as well as of the troublemakers; secondly, we must provide our support, which is necessary. To this end, we have planned sprinklers, helicopters and also a federal reserve, which is on the ground at the request of the dircos who manage the problem with the governors. That night, we made thirty-nine arrests. The night before, there were fourteen. Of these fifty-three arrests, twenty-four are of a judicial nature for theft, violence and use of weapons. An investigation has been conducted into the latter cases. With regard to the twenty-four judicial arrests, most of these persons are known to the police. So this is not the first time. As far as administrative arrests are concerned, these people are little known to the police. So they're really protestors. We also seized some gsm and vehicles. It is clear that we follow the situation minute by minute via the Crisis Centre. All necessary facilities will be provided by the federal government at the request of the dirco.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u86	Mr President, when I hear the precision with which the Minister of the Interior answers – and I thank him for this – about the security and public order measures that have been taken in the context of the overburdens, I would like to put this in parallel with the very general response that the Prime Minister has given to the measures and the substantive demands. I think there's a dichotomy. Prime Minister, I did have a doubt that you were only going behind the overflows without giving an answer. You told me to hear the demands. I feel like you've listened to them but not heard them. I would also like to tell you that it is not only a precarised class that manifests today. It is a middle class that is becoming increasingly precarious, especially as a result of tax measures. I have the impression that today you are no longer representing this average clase which, moreover, did not benefit from your tax shift. I really ask you, Prime Minister, to avoid all the populism that we all denounce, to hear and respond to these concerns through measures other than the vague measures that you have announced for several years, that are already in place and that do not respond to the specific problems of the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u87	Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, thank you for the clarifications you have given us. I want to take advantage of this reply to pay tribute to the work of the law enforcement forces, which we must of course all encourage. I understand that you are giving them all the means to prevent and punish, if necessary, the acts we condemn. This is obviously essential both for police efficiency, for police protection and, no doubt, for avoiding dramatic situations such as those encountered by our French neighbours. I would remind you that in France, there are already two deaths on the margins of the same events.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u88	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u89	Mr Calvo, we are now dealing with the oral questions. After that, and not a second earlier, we'll be talking about your motions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u90	Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, Commissioner Marianne Thyssen launched legislation on the coordination of social security systems in the EU Member States. This is a good thing in itself. As part of its review, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs adopted an amendment to this Directive on 20 November in the context of unemployment benefit. This revision could have a potentially far-reaching impact on the Belgian unemployment scheme. I should perhaps not remind you that under current Belgian legislation non-Belgian EU citizens must have worked in Belgium for at least three months before they are entitled to unemployment benefit. However, according to the forthcoming European rules, any person concerned would be entitled to unemployment benefit after only one day's work in Belgium. As if this were not enough, the European Commission has decided that those concerned could export their unemployment benefits to another Member State for six months. For example, a Romanian who has worked one day in Belgium as a rich man can go back to Romania at the expense of our taxpayer. Since Belgium is the only Member State of the European Union with an unemployment benefit that is unlimited in time, I do not need to draw a drawing to illustrate that our country will become a paradise for unemployment tourism. This scheme is totally unacceptable to the N-VA. Mr Vice-President, what concrete impact would the possible revision of the European directive have on the Belgian legislation on unemployment? Do you not fear for a suction effect and for social security tourism because the Belgian unemployment benefit is unlimited in time? Have you already contacted Commissioner Marianne Thyssen to discuss this? Will the government amend the directive during negotiations with the EU on this review in order to avoid adverse consequences for the Belgian situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u91	Mr President, Mr Van der Donkt, I hope that after my reply you will not only be satisfied, but also reassured. You know that the Royal Decree was adopted on 11 September 2016 and entered into force on 1 October 2016. With this royal decision, we have strengthened the conditions for admission to unemployment benefit on the basis of foreign employment. Since 1 October 2016, foreign benefits or periods can only be counted in the following two cases. Firstly, if foreign benefits are followed by at least three months of employment in Belgium. Secondly, if the foreign benefits were performed in a treaty country. Indeed, the European Commission is currently working on improved coordination of the social security systems of the different Member States. The original proposal of the European Commissioner responsible for Social Affairs, Mrs Marianne Thyssen, included a generalisation of the three-month scheme we used. It was therefore very good that our proposal had been accepted at European level, but the European Employment Council of 21 June 2018 under the Bulgarian Presidency reduced that deadline to one month. For this reason, Belgium, represented in the Council, opposed and did not adopt the Regulation, yet a majority of the Council approved the text. Now there is a text in the European Parliament, in which, despite the opposition of some Belgian MEPs, the deadline was reduced to one day. As soon as the text is discussed again with the Council, I will repeat the Belgian position. I'm hoping for your support. This position will also be made clear at diplomatic level during the trilogue negotiations. That view is that, as in Belgium, we also want to see a three-month deadline in the text at European level. I think I have answered you clearly and I hope I have reassured you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u92	Of course, Minister, it is not my intention to reassure me, but it is the citizen, who ultimately bears and pays the entire social security system. I'd like to dot the i's. The N-VA absolutely does not want to relax the three-month scheme to one day, quite the contrary. In fact, we are in favour of increasing the deadline to six months. Together with you, and I hope that will remain so, we are not in favour of the possibility of exporting unemployment compensation to another country. If we want to work here and enjoy social security, then we will have to contribute and, of course, stay here. What has surprised me in this dossier is that the European Liberals, led by Mr Verhofstadt and others, have supported such nonsense. I therefore wonder whether the Liberals in this Chamber will support this proposal and whether they will support you in Europe. This revision of the directive is again a typical example of European supranational law, which violates the sovereignty of the European Member States. Such supranational decisions, including those of the migration pact on which there has just been a great deal of commotion, are not appreciated by the citizens when they are not heard. Minister, our group is counting on you to listen at least to the citizens in this dossier and to say strongly in Europe against the proposed change.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u93	Mr President, Minister, I am here as a Member of Parliament, but, for the umpteenth time, also as mayor of a border municipality, a Limburg-based Meuse border municipality. And I'm gonna have to pull the alarm bell again. The Dutch government is very committed to tackling underground crime. She has already proved that she can smash nails in that area. She has worked out a whole plan and has taken a lot of action to tackle the motor gangs and has succeeded in doing so. You know that, and I have pointed it out earlier, one then gets a waterbed effect. In the narrow Limburg strip at the height of Belgian Limburg there is a waterbed effect and an exodus from those motor gangs to other places, initially towards Belgium. That has been mapped out, that is a fact and we have to deal with it. Of course, we're not just moaning under that pressure. I speak now for the Limburg municipalities but especially for the Meuse municipalities. It now appears that the Dutch government has decided to allocate EUR 10 million to 19 Dutch-Limburg municipalities for the fight against drug crime. We must take this whole story of drug crime seriously, and we have always been allies in this respect. If there is an input of EUR 10 million again, that is an important fact. The Procurator of Limburg, Mr Vermeiren, has already pointed this out. Last week, in fact, there were certain actions. I do not know if that is directly related to the 10 million, but the fact is that there have been major actions in the border region, where dozens of people have been arrested in connection with drug crime. It seems to me, of course, that I am raising a local problem here, but you will agree with me that if such a waterbed effect gives rise to a tsunami of drug crime towards Limburg, this primarily concerns the border communities, but that this tsunami and the waves that are caused by it will then deepen further. So this is a problem not only for the Maaslandse gemeenten, not only for the Limburg municipalities, but for all the municipalities where the underworld gets a grip on the upper world through this drugs. We must fight this. I would have liked to have heard your ideas about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u94	Mr President, Mr Terwingen, before I come to your specific questions, I would like to make a few comments. We have, of course, also taken note of the Dutch action. There is very regular consultation between the Belgian police and the Netherlands to coordinate these actions. I would like to congratulate the policemen in Limburg, because they are an example in the country of the fight against drugs. There have already been many actions, for example a pilot project in Limburg and eight concerted actions, mainly aimed at drug crime. I therefore believe that good work is already being done in Limburg. At the moment we do not see an increase in drug crime as a result of the Dutch announcement. That does not mean, of course, that we should be deaf to what was said there. I plan one of the following weeks to consult with local police forces to see what additional federal support should be provided. What you're saying is correct. One begins at the border and that intuitiveness. It's better that we stop and deal with this at the border. One of the anti-terrorist measures was the placement of a thousand additional ANPR cameras across the territory. They are also built into a single network. That network will be operational by the end of this year. It gives us the possibility of predictive policing, to program the systems in a certain way. When one sees that certain cars travel across the border very regularly, they are spotted. My very specific proposal is to make a pilot project in Limburg, once the network is operational at the end of this year, and to apply specific predictive policeing to drug crime from January onwards. We will see what we learn from it and then we can provide the necessary capacity to follow the hits. We're following this closely. The resources needed to address this will also be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u95	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I fully support the ANPR story. As you know, the LaMa or Lanaken-Maasmechelen zone is the only zone completely surrounded by ANPR cameras, which is a step forward. I know that there are plans to provide additional security for Limburg in this area. Nevertheless, I have two points to make. Colleagues of mine have made an appeal for more people in the press. More people are always welcome. The corps moan, but that's not just the case in the Maasland. It will be in many places. In itself, therefore, more people are always welcome. However, there are two possibilities or two additional suggestions? Firstly, it is very important that we meet again, first and foremost with the mayors who are directly involved. I speak mainly for the Meuse municipalities or Maaslandse gemeenten. It is very important to be able to discuss and listen and look at the needs on the ground, then to look at what is needed, what digital or other tools or additional staff are needed instead of simply creating additional people. There is little point in that. Secondly, I really want to make a call for the following. In the file we can ask a lot of information and find inspiration in Dutch justice. The Netherlands has unpacked undermining legislation. It has made a package of measures that goes beyond the BIPDO, which, of course, also includes it. The package of measures is aimed at a judicial, police but also administrative approach to everything that has to do with the underworld that passes to the upper world. That can be a very important aspect. Our local authorities in the area can certainly be the example of this. They may be the test area in which this is carried out. So I really advocate undermining legislation according to the Dutch model, in particular bringing together various things that can help.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u96	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, on 5 November, invited by Morning First, you said: "I cannot comment on a decision I have not taken with regard to the decision to release the income of Libyan assets frozen in bank accounts in Belgium. I don't know what language to repeat it in. I can't answer you for something I didn't handle. I left the Department of Finance in late 2011. I can't explain to you what happened next, in the months and years that followed." That was what you said, minister. It is true that it is probably not under your ministry that the decision was made. But today's press tells us that there were interventions on your part, after you left the Department of Finance, in your capacity as Minister of Foreign Affairs. If the information disclosed by the press is correct, in a letter dated 9 April 2013 sent by your chief of staff, it is stated that the controversy of Libyan funds "is happening on a delicate background that sees many Belgian companies trying, with our support" – I insist on the words "with our support" – "to obtain the refund of unpaid invoices for goods and services delivered to the former Libyan regime". According to the press, on the basis of the production of documents from the investigation, the deputy head of the Treasury at the time stated to the investigators, in an investigation conducted by the investigating judge Claise, that "in the case of files for which we gave authorizations and for which the companies were not paid, "I specify that there were several interventions by Minister Reynders." And he continues: "A letter to the Governor of the Central Bank of Libya was delivered by Minister Reynders in 2012, then in 2013, with a list of outstanding assets and files from July 2012. A new approach was taken in 2013." That is to say, Minister, after you left as Minister of Finance, you continued to have some interest in this matter as Minister of Foreign Affairs. That's the least we can say! In any case, if the facts reported by the press are confirmed. Therefore, Mr Minister, I would like to know what criteria have led you to consider that the Libyan authorities should be approached to obtain repayment of outstanding debts held by Belgian companies. What was the list given to the Belgian authorities? What were the selection criteria for supporting Belgian companies' claims for unpaid invoices? Why some? Why not others? Among other things, why not those of the ASBL Fondation du Prince Laurent which, it seems, did not have the same support as the companies concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u97	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, my colleague Mr. Maingain had addressed his question to the Prime Minister. She's been redirected to you. We would like, or at least I would like to benefit from the government's cooperation in clarifying this complex, important and worrying issue. Let me describe him as disturbing. Mr Minister, at the outset, my questions were: who authorized the release of the interests of Libyan funds? Why? To whom was the money paid? What was it for? On November 11, a letter quoting you was presented on RTL-TVI's antenna. It is reproduced today in Le Soir. Mr. Maingain quoted it, so I won't have to do it again. This mail raises some questions of information in my home. I'm trying to clarify things. There are many of them, so I'll be there right away. Minister, do you confirm the existence of this letter of April 9, 2013, of which you would have received a copy, sent by your Chief of Staff to a lawyer of the ASBL GSDT? What was your role as Minister of Foreign Affairs in this issue of Libyan funds? On March 8, you and my colleagues sent me back to the Minister of Finance. How did you intervene in the file? What kind of support did you provide to Belgian companies seeking to recover invoices from the Libyan State? At the time, were you in contact with the Minister of Finance, Mr Vanackere, as well as with the administrator-general of the Treasury or with any of his collaborators, about the thawing of Libyan funds, a condition for the repayment of Belgian companies? Who were your interlocutors on the Libyan side? Have they complained to you about the ASBL GSDT's actions? What, if any, were the conditions laid down by the Libyan authorities to repay the Belgian companies concerned? Why were you worried in this letter about their "good disposition" towards Belgium? Which Belgian companies were involved in a Libyan repayment? What amounts were reimbursed, respectively, and when? For what reason did you think that the ASBL GSDT, to which the Libyan State also owed money following a court decision, should be treated separately from that of the Belgian companies concerned? These are my questions, which I introduced in order to ask you in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is useful to recall – as I have done on several occasions and as has just been confirmed by parliamentarians – that I left the Department of Finance as the incumbent of the position on December 6, 2011. As I have already explained to you on many occasions, I did not have to deal with the freezing of Libyan assets in Belgian banks, since I was no longer in charge of this department. Therefore, everything you mentioned about thawing, if any, after that date did not actually concern my activities. Today, I must say that I find the questions that you ask me even more interesting because you are asking me whether, as Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade – I say that this was my title during the previous parliamentary term on the dates you mentioned – I intervened to have Belgian companies paid their debts to a state. My answer is quite simple: of course! When our companies enter into foreign trade or investment contracts, it is common, normal and in the role of a foreign trade minister to intervene with local authorities to ensure that their rights are respected. And that was indeed the case in Libya, as I do every time when our legitimate interests and those of companies are not respected abroad. This is also the condition for our companies to continue to operate in the world an activity indispensable for the economic development of our country. Since, in the long list of your questions, you are interested in knowing what was published in the press at the time, in May 2013, I did indeed receive in Brussels the Libyan Prime Minister and I referred to a series of business debt files that were forwarded to me by our embassy. We're doing this. Which companies are involved? First of all, they were companies in the health sector. Already the previous year, when I visited Libya in February 2012, we agreed that a number of large Libyan wounded people would be treated in Belgian hospitals. This has also been widely communicated. Of course, when it was found that the invoices were not paid, contrary to the commitment made by the Libyan government, I requested that these invoices be paid. The same applies to public transport, construction, the supply of vehicles and the production of secure identities. At that time, it was only for these sectors that I received a series of requests through our embassy. She wanted me to communicate these claims to the Libyan Prime Minister. This, in my view, is the role of a foreign trade minister when he has to defend business law abroad. Otherwise, I think he'd spend his days not doing much!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u99	Minister, it is well known that you are certainly not the one who ignores his obligations as a minister. This was not the point, but rather that of understanding what the selection had been or what the criteria of choice had been for asserting the claims of certain companies and, for example, not to defend (since this is what your chief of staff suggests) the debt, however undisputed and recognized by law, of the ASBL represented by the directors appointed by Prince Laurent. You don't answer that! But I think I know – and that's why I would like to have the list of companies that were handed over at the time of your meeting with the Libyan Prime Minister – that there are companies that were nevertheless holders of judicial titles that have sentenced the Libyan State for unpaid debts, which have not been able to assert, through your channel, their claims. Curiously, other companies that did not have legal titles were able to claim their debts because the ambassador was more vigilant. There is still a need to clarify the criteria according to which the list has been drawn up by your services (not by yourself) in order to know who has been able to assert his claims to the Libyan authorities. I will ask the details by written question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u100	Minister, I've been interested in this case for over a year. I am trying to make this clear through a number of specific questions, since a UN report in September indicates that what Belgium did – in any case with regard to the liberation of interests – was contrary to the UN resolution and the European regulation, and was worrying about the beneficiaries. This is not the first time that I have asked you – the first time you have referred me to the Minister of Finance – about the Belgian companies for which you spoke. You give some answers, but not all, like every time. You did not answer my last question about differential treatment with respect to the GSDT LSA, which was cited, and which you do not justify. For my part, in a very calm but also tenacious way, I will continue to ask questions to the Minister of Finance, the Treasury and to yourself, since you have not answered this last question. I said in my introduction that I regretted that the Prime Minister did not agree to reply to Mr.Maingain, as he wished. I believe that it is the responsibility of the whole government to give all the information. Perhaps you would then avoid questions and articles that bother you if, from the outset, you gave all the information to Parliament. It is possible to work in a more transparent and democratic way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u101	Madam Minister, after having imposed on the Wallonia-Brussels federation a filter for access to medical and dental studies, you are now imposing an additional lock on it, this time at the end of the training. To access the internships and get their INAMI number, the student will have to have what you call a "quota certificate" in order to enforce the famous quotas that you have set in a totally arbitrary manner. Madam Minister, should I recall the Council of State's scathing opinion in this regard, which speaks of an "incoherent system which may lead to a reduction in the medical supply in relation to the needs of the inhabitants"? The INAMI number saga continues in a deleterious climate, where you continue to set the rules of the game as you see fit and in a completely inconsistent manner, always accompanied by disastrous consequences for students who have passed the six years of study but who will not be able to practice medicine. Moreover, they will also be for patients, especially for French-speaking patients in this country who will experience more difficulty in obtaining treatment. Minister, this is inconsistent, unacceptable and even irresponsible, all the more so since the shortage has become a reality in almost one in two Walloon municipalities, since no INAMI number restrictions have been established for doctors trained abroad and in 2016, 36% of doctors who obtained an INAMI number in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation had graduated abroad. Minister, I will ask you three questions. What do you say to students who want to embark on medical studies or who are in the middle of their studies? Whether they go to train or continue their training abroad, then return to Belgium and get an INAMI number without problems? What do you say to hospitals looking for doctors? That they use foreign doctors, sometimes less well trained? What do you say to patients who don't find a general practitioner or who don't get a quick appointment with a specialist? Let them take their evil in patience, hoping that their state of health will not deteriorate? I look forward to your answers, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u102	Madam Secretary, I have the same question with another approach. The new legislation on the quota of RIZIV numbers was adopted last year, following a political compromise in the federal government. The federal government would assign students who had already started a medical course at the beginning of this legislature a RIZIV number, so that the efforts and investments made would not be lost. On the other hand, the remaining RIZIV numbers from the past were to be eliminated by a quota lissage system. The French Community would limit the influx of students to the quota level and the federal government would have a stick behind the door with the quota attestations. Today, however, we note that this year, too, the influx of students in Wallonia is far greater than the quota. As a result, with limited probability, not every medical student will be able to start his internship and obtain a RIZIV number. This is dramatic for the students involved and their parents. There is no doubt that the responsibility for this lies with the French Community. So I would like to know how you will deal with the problem in a structural manner?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u103	Madam Minister, you have heard it again from the PS: you have to answer to all those poor students who have started these studies again in uncertainty, because it is your fault. No, it is not your fault, Madam Minister; it is once again the fault of the French Community. For 21 years now, students themselves have had to start their studies with terrible uncertainty. Let's put responsibility in the right place. Madam Minister, apart from that, I was very pleased to read in your policy paper that you will demonstrate the good agreement, which has come with great difficulty under the current government, by introducing so-called quota attestations. They will ensure that students can't even start an internship without those certificates. The certificates shall correspond in number to the quota of RIZIV numbers determined for that year. I am happy with that in itself, but it is of course very bad that it had to come to this. The unwillingness, ignorance and political cynicism on the hood of the French-speaking students of PS Minister Jean-Claude Marcourt are so great that you need to further concrete the balanced agreement, which was very clearly explained to him. We support this approach, Madam Minister, but with a not insignificant one. I read in your policy paper, and I have not yet been able to get an answer to my questions about this. Our group does not follow you. The rules were very clear to Mr Marcourt. As far as I am concerned, you will have to amend the Royal Decree, which you will be submitting this year. The measure should already apply to the students who started this year. My heart breaks for the students in general, but that is no longer our responsibility. Our group is asking whether you will amend the measure accordingly. I would like to hear from you whether you will indeed do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u104	Minister, your policy note revealed that you were going to take a royal order locking out and eliminating the surplus, at the end of their career, of medical and dentistry students despite the success of their studies. I asked you at length about this in committee and we expected you to come and answer it next week. This being the case, what calls me prodigiously in your attitude is on the one hand that you continue to sweep the objective data of public health from the back of your hand in relation to shortages: waiting times for certain specialists, shortage at the level of the communes of general practitioners - especially in the Walloon Region but the Brussels Region is also affected. On the other hand, the data of the pyramids of the ages of doctors are extremely challenging since several hundred general practitioners will leave. What also appeals to me is that when you disagree with Mr Marcourt, your reaction is to announce a harsh and brutal measure on the students at the end of the course, even prohibiting the trainees from being able to train them. Finally, even more challenging last September, when you discovered and became aware of the results of the entrance examination in medicine and dentistry, you announced at that time a consultation with the Communities. Here, however, you clearly announce, in your general policy note, that you unilaterally take a royal decree that punishes students at the end of their career. This is therefore unacceptable as an attitude. I find this irresponsible and particularly incorrect in relation to your announcement last September. Minister, I'm asking you three things. The first is respect for students who complete their studies. The fact that they can no longer continue their training after having completed six years of medical and dental studies is a real waste for the students but also for their parents. Secondly, I ask you for consideration of the public health data that are known and objective in terms of shortage. Thirdly, I ask you for a minimum of responsibility and consistency with your remarks last September. You had announced a concertation. Do it with the Communities and especially at the level of the Interministerial Conference rather than decide on a brutal measure unilaterally! I hope that, of these three commitments, you will be able to respond positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u105	Thank you for your questions, Mr Senesael, Mrs Fonck, Mrs Van Peel and Mr Janssens. First of all, I would like to point out that the French Community has not respected quotas for more than 20 years, with all the consequences for students. The students who had already started their studies in medicine before the beginning of this legislature were therefore in a very uncertain situation. The certificates that could be given, the so-called RIZIV attestations, were exhausted. I hadn't even taken my oath yet or there were two crises: the Ebola crisis and the student crisis. However, the rules were well known. So it was indeed irresponsible behaviour at the time. That is why I have made a commitment with the government to allow access to the profession for this large group of students, provided that the problem no longer arises. Thanks to this conditional provision, which allowed last year and this year to issue numerous university certificates, largely additional to what the quotas provided for, including for the Flemish Community, a large number of young doctors arrived on the labour market. The double cohort, discussed almost every week here, which has received a difficult but effective response, is also responsible for improving the number of students about to enter the labour market. In the past, the choice was made in Wallonia to train far less general practitioners than specialists. The result was indeed a penuria of general practitioners in the small villages. The result was also a huge abundance of some specialties, but that is not discussed. These are people who have been studying for 12 years and can hardly earn a living. That's outrageous. All this still calls for a nuance of the communication on the shortage of doctors. Colleagues, it is my job to ensure that doctors in training do not end up in such a situation in the future. That is why it was decided to put a safety barrier in the law at the federal level. The law of 22 March was therefore passed in the Chamber. Article 92 of the Health Occupations Act was amended accordingly. The explanatory memorandum clearly explains the safety-lock principle. A second reading was requested, so we had two discussions. A detailed discussion was also held in plenary. It is said that this comes suddenly in the general policy note, at the end of the legislature, and that a new royal decree will be taken. The announcement of the KB has always been in it; that was predicted. It was the bolt, which I said at the time, hopefully never needed, because the quotas would be respected from then on, including in the French-speaking Community. We need to have that discussion now. We should not wait until 2024 or 2025 to stand against the wall again and see a whole cohort of students graduating who cannot work with a RIZIV number. It has been clearly stated that federal quotas must be respected in the future, by all parties. In addition, in order to ensure that the filters introduced in the Communities lead to a proper flow of training, a working group to draw up a memorandum of understanding has already been set up within the Interministerial Conference. We are therefore continuing these discussions. It is a question of pursuing a consistent policy to avoid the mistakes made in the past, of which the students and their families were indeed victims. That is a courageous decision; that is responsible policy. Everything else is bullshit. In addition, we are taking measures to limit the influx of foreign students, albeit with due regard for the European legislation in force. The measures we have taken in this respect are included in the draft law on pedestals, which is already before the government and which will be submitted to the Chamber next week. At that time we can continue the discussion. But if we talk about irresponsibility, I think we know where she is!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u106	Madam Minister, you are talking about non-compliance with the French Community. Do I have to remind you that it is indisputable that the Forem classifies general medicine in occupations in need and that doctors are recruited abroad in turn? Minister, yes, you are going to put your requirements and those of the N-VA on the table again. And yes, Francophones will only have to comply with it once again! Minister, our system of providing access to medical practice and dentistry is purely aberrant. Instead of deleting or, at the very least, revisiting this numerus clausus, you have made it an even more disastrous system. Take an example on your French colleague and dare to question this system, which is a human waste! Finally, minister, step back and be responsible. I say stop to incoherence and stop to irresponsibility, to your irresponsibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u107	Madam Secretary, of course we fully support your approach. I remember four things from your answer. Firstly, the French Community bears a great deal of responsibility for the problems raised. Secondly, the law that was adopted last year contains all the instruments for achieving a structural solution to the problem and we will apply it. Thirdly, you will work on a protocol agreement at the Inter-Ministerial Conference to ensure that the filter for limiting student influx will be used effectively. Fourthly, you are taking initiatives to reduce the influx of students from outside the EU. In this way a structural solution can indeed be found and I express the hope that, in the end, everyone will take responsibility for the problem, and I really mean everyone, otherwise there will be only one victim, namely the medical student.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u108	Mr Senesael, this is not the first time, but you should be ashamed of that theatre. You should be ashamed of that political theater game on the back of your own students in Wallonia and on the back of the Flemish taxpayer, who has to pay for all your bullshit. Shame on you. It's simple. It's been very simple for 20 years. Now finally enter a filter with a numerus fixus, just like in Flanders already exists for 20 years. Solve your own problems. And if you can't, you'll just give us an extra argument to finally split up public health. For that, I thank you. (Loud protest)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u109	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will not address the problem of shortages here, you will discuss it, if you wish, in an interdepartmental conference. But if you are convinced that the offer must be limited, which is increasingly disputed – look what is happening in France! – you will then have to integrate foreigners in one way or another into the quotas. You explain to us that internships involve a risk but it's been open doors and windows for years! In 2015, for example, there were more doctors and dentists trained in Europe who received an INAMI number than our own students who succeeded on the French side in Belgium! Do you find that normal? It is an upside down discrimination and, on the other hand, it sweeps away all the arguments that you can use in this regard. I am also surprised at your reaction when there is a surplus over quotas. It's amazing because last year you didn't react to it at all. In this case, of course, it was because there was a sub-number of quotas! I'm sorry to say here that you're double standards in your reaction, when you're interested. You unilaterally decided to activate this royal decree. So you decide yourself to break the young people who have succeeded in medicine and dentistry. I think the situation is surreal! When we see what you are doing with Europeans, you break our young Belgian Francophones and, in addition, you are doing so contrary to your commitment, made last September, to hold a concertation. So I can only say one thing to you, Madam Minister: urgently include this item at the next Interdepartmental Health Conference!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip255x.u110	End of oral questions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to suspend the sitting for 10 minutes. After the suspension, we shall begin to deal with the two motions tabled by Mr Calvo. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 22 November 2018 at 6.12 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 22 November 2018 at 18.12 a.m.
