ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u1	Good morning, colleagues. Welcome to the minister. Question No 22831 by Mr Jean-Marc Delizée is transformed into a written question. Mr Yüksel is on the Infrastructure Committee but will be here shortly. Mrs. Ben Hamou is gone. Mr. de Lamotte, you can start.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u2	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the new nuclear emergency plan should be adopted in the Council of Ministers. You have already answered several questions about this one. Nevertheless, several questions and concerns remain among the population in the vicinity of the power stations. First, some lack of coordination of services was reported during the emergency planning exercises. So what are the results of the most recent evaluations conducted during these exercises? Have any tools or processes been put in place to obtain input from affected populations? How is this taken into account? Secondly, it appears that tablets of iodine pills will now be made available free of charge in all pharmacies in the country in order to enable everyone to obtain them. As a result, every citizen will be able to purchase stable iodine tablets free of charge in a pharmacy as part of a personal emergency preparedness process. Centralised and decentralized stocks will also remain operational for the distribution of tablets at the time of a possible real incident. All this seems to me, on the whole, positive. However, the effectiveness of this system is largely dependent on the information of the citizens to whom it should benefit. In addition, stable iodine pills have a limited lifespan. It is also a parameter that it is very important to take into account. My questions about this point are therefore as follows. Has a budget for an information campaign to inform the most exposed citizens that they have the opportunity to go and get stable iodine pills in pharmacies been provided? Given that these pills are never used, will the attention of these citizens be drawn sufficiently to the expiry date of the tablets and the need to replace them when that date expires? Has a budget been provided for the timely supply and/or renewal of centralized and decentralized stocks as well as of the various pharmacies, mainly those located in the most at-risk areas? What about the reprocessing of outdated stable iodine pills?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u3	Mr de Lamotte, practice remains an essential element in strengthening expertise and improving crisis management processes. The exercises are used to test the strategic and operational coordination between the different actors. The difficulties encountered serve as a lesson and a point of improvement in order to allow the optimal course of a real crisis management. In order to reflect the reality, in recent years the authorities have set targets for concrete exercises for all actors. These exercises always involve simulations of incidents and have a radiological impact on the external environment with, also, a security-type incident - during Exercise Doel 2017. In this way, these exercises were used to test the authorities' real-time alerts, their decision-making capacity and, above all, the interaction and flow of information between the various national, provincial and municipal coordination structures. The continuous improvement of the flow of information remains a very important focus, as consistency of messages must be ensured and communication discrepancies avoided. To this end, a new secure online platform for crisis management - iCMS software - as well as BE-Alert's "multichannel" platform were successfully tested, notably during the Doel and Tihange exercises in 2017. Some members of the emergency and response services were also required to travel on the ground to test their procedures in real-life conditions. In addition, the tasks for the measuring cell and the distribution into nuclear intervention zones were among the particular points of attention. During the nuclear exercise in Tihange in 2016, a panel of some 20 inhabitants of the city of Huy was formed and involved in the exercise. They received several text messages from the authorities during the exercise to inform them of the development of the fictitious situation and of the measures to be taken: sheltering, restricting the food chain and taking iodine tablets. In addition, these text messages invited them to follow the media and social networks and to learn more about the website www.nuclearrisk.be. They were then asked to complete an evaluation questionnaire on the clarity and effectiveness of the messages received, and their perception of the various information. Similar interactions with the population were also organised in other exercises, such as the CEN exercise in Mol and Belgoprocess in Dessel in 2015. The participation of the population has been the subject of considerable attention for several years in the organization of nuclear exercises and we are considering how best to involve the population even more in future exercises. Let me turn to your second set of questions. The nuclear risk information campaign, which covers a wider scope than just measures to protect the thyroid gland by taking stable iodine, as well as the Iodine tablet pre-distribution campaign that will take place at the same time, are scheduled for March 2018. In addition to sheltering, taking iodine tablets is also a very effective way to prevent thyroid problems in the event of internal exposure to iodine radioactive isotopes, as could be the case in an accident in domestic or foreign nuclear facilities. The pre-distribution of iodine tablets, currently planned for households, businesses and schools, etc., in the 20 km emergency planning zones around nuclear sites, will be extended to the entire country. This campaign will be aimed at the population outside the 10 or 20 km zone, and in the first place at sensitive groups. These include children under 18 years of age, pregnant or breastfeeding women, as well as certain communities, such as early childhood care, crèches, schools, etc. The budget needed to inform these target groups has indeed been provided for in sufficient terms. As regards shelf life, the date of production of iodine tablets is stated on the package. When stored in their original packaging, the tablets have a very long duration of use. It is therefore highly unlikely that they are already out of date after only ten years. As a result, the boxes distributed during the 2010-2011 campaign are still valid at least until 2020-2021. Towards the end of this 10-year period, regular tests will be carried out on a sample of tablets by the Scientific Institute of Public Health to determine if they are still usable. If necessary, citizens will be invited to replace them. With regard to the reprocessing of tablets that will no longer be usable, the population will be asked to bring them back to their pharmacists when the stocks are renewed. The tablets will then be treated in the normal drug destruction system. The costs of the information campaign and the campaign for the distribution of iodine tablets in 2018 as well as future costs, both for the renewal of tablets and for the treatment of potentially unusable tablets, are budgeted on the nuclear fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u4	Minister, thank you for this complete answer, as it stands. I have no particular comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u5	Mr President, Minister, in the context of the succession of radicalised individuals who may be involved in terrorist activities in our country, the OCAD maintains a common database resulting from the former FTF database. It is important that this list is sufficiently updated to ensure effective follow-up. My questions in this connection are as follows. How many FTFs are currently on the OCAD list? How many left in 2016 and 2017? How many were killed in Syria and Iraq? How many are potential movers at the moment? In addition to the FTFs who have left for Syria or are starting to leave, there is a second category, namely the homegrown terrorist fighters, the HTFs. I have the impression that the situation here is less clear. It is a category of people who have never travelled to the conflict zones, but who are very susceptible to rapid radicalisation. Since when are HTFs effectively included in the common database? Do you have any figures on the number of HTFs listed by the OCAD in 2017? What is the number of HTFs currently on the OCAD list? How do you evaluate the inclusion of HTFs in the common database of the OCAD?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u6	Mr Yüksel, in 2014 only 4 individuals managed to reach Syria from our country. They did not go to ISIS, but to groups in north-west Syria, which are rather associated with Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, a group around the former Jabhat al-Nusra, with an Al-Qaeda mindset. So it's not IS but rather Al-Qaeda's cloud. According to the information available to the OCAD, there were no further attempts to leave after August 2017. According to the information available to the OCAD, only 2 individuals managed to reach Syria in 2016. One of them joined ISIS, while the other joined a group that is Salafist in nature but rather has a national agenda. It is therefore not a global jihad but rather a Syrian internal political agenda. 11 persons made a failed attempt at departure; they did not make it to the site. 123 FTFs have returned. I have here the table per year, which we will send you by e-mail. The table is divided into men and women from 2013 and per year. It is therefore a total of 123 people who have returned. Maybe good to mention, there were 7 files in 2016 and 4 files in 2017. The 7 dossiers concern 2 men and 5 women, and the 4 dossiers concern 1 man and 3 women. Children are not included in the OCAD database. However, all concerned were accompanied by children. As the figures from 2016 and 2017 indicate, there is no massive return for the time being. It's a drip process. Usually they are women and children, sometimes accompanied by their partner. It seems that most FTFs do not intend to return or that it is made impossible for them. It is also known that IS without hesitation executes deserters or severely punishes them, which will, of course, deter many from attempting. This is not an indication for us to follow the matter less closely; it is simply a finding. According to the latest data available to the OCAD, 133 FTFs have been killed, although the number is likely to be higher. The air strikes and the fierce battle on the ground have probably caused a lot of casualties. It has also become more difficult to keep communication lines with family and friends open, so that little news comes out of IS area. It is expected that in the short term new information will be provided on possible deaths or persons captured by this or that group of warriors. After all, it is no longer about IS, because many groups are fighting for rule in that area. The number of potential movers is 112, although it goes without saying that in the current context there is little incentive to leave for IS territory. Together with the competent services and the LTFs, the OCAD will examine this category thoroughly. Many names were already removed based on the fact that they had no intention to leave or were disillusioned about IS and his projects. The HTFs are indeed included in the common database. It is by the way a category that has been added since April 2017. There are currently 33 HTFs in the common database and they were all included in it in 2017. In addition to monitoring security by the courts, police or intelligence services, they may receive a personalised follow-up based on consultation in the operational LTFs and in consultation with the LIVCs. This may result in an individual guidance process by prevention or deradicalisation officials and/or the social services of the municipalities concerned. It is not a standard package but a tailor-made course. It may include, for example, appropriate guidance to prevent persons from travelling; identification of persons in the vicinity who can contribute to a process of disengagement or deradicalisation; regular contacts with a person concerned and his/her social environment by the district inspector; career guidance pathway; support by social services; contacts with prevention and deradicalisation officials, etc. Information on their route in prison is also exchanged on a permanent basis between the services concerned. This could lead to an adjustment of the prison regime by the Directorate-General for EPI.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and overview. I have two observations. First of all, you said 123 returned. This category should be closely monitored. That is also happening through our services. In this respect, we must not fail to do so both for their own safety and for the safety of our citizens. Secondly, the HTFs are a new category that does not take the step to go to the front. As you said, this category needs to be mapped out and properly monitored and programmes developed to deradicalise those involved. I hope that in this way we will be able to manage the problem well, so that the figures do not increase anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u8	Mr. Chair, Minister, I would like to ask you about the implementation of your predecessor's February 8, 2013 Ministerial Circular. The circular contained a number of recommendations to address violence against police officers. In particular, the circular provided for the establishment of a stress team that would provide assistance to the abused police officer and his family. It also provided for the establishment of a system of central registration of violence, as well as a campaign to raise public awareness of respect for the police. Finally, specific training on violence should be integrated into the basic training of police officers. Other recommendations had also been highlighted for both the interior and the justice system. Minister, how many of the recommendations of this circular are already being implemented? Are you planning to finalize the implementation of other recommendations? If so, within what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u9	Ms.Ben Hamou, on September 27, 2017, the Chair of the Negotiating Committee prepared an exhaustive list of achievements in this area. He discussed it with the trade union organizations. I will table the list at the secretariat of the committee. You will see that the achievements are numerous and important. You will find information on the recommendations and how they are implemented. Two major aspects were still awaiting an answer. First, regulations to cover all costs in the event of violence against police officers. On 27 September 2017, a project was discussed and approved by the social partners. It is in the process of formal finalization. The federal government is committed to paying the difference between actual and insured costs. The victims thus have no financial burden. Then there was a circular from the College of Attorneys General missing. That will no longer be the case. The circular was drafted and circulated by the College. It addresses violence against police officers and the violence committed by police officers. It is dated 28 November 2017. It must now be applied rigorously.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u10	Minister, thank you for these answers. That's positive. I can only applaud the work done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u11	As usual in such cases, the documents submitted by the Minister will be published on the extranet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u12	Mr President, Minister, your colleague and mayor of Antwerp Bart De Wever recently expressed his support for the development of a legal framework for voluntary police officers. This would allow former police officers, military personnel, as well as tax practitioners, accountants and computer scientists to come and assist professional police officers. According to your party president, these volunteer police officers could be mobilised during events as well as during investigations into blackout work or for specific cybercrime research. These volunteer police officers would be used to unload professional police officers and enable them to refocus on their core missions, which have been increasingly reduced since you took office. Minister, after your reform of the law on private security and the reforms still under way on kerntaken, the use of volunteers would be a further violation of the police function, namely not only a devalorization of the police profession, but also a new cache-sex behind which would be camouflaged the glaring lack of staff and resources at all levels of the integrated police. Minister, what do you think of this proposal to introduce volunteer police officers? Is this a project that you are considering in this government? If so, what is the schedule you set yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u13	Mr President, dear colleague, you will not be surprised to learn that I am open to good creative ideas that respond to a real problem in a local police force. The mayor of Antwerp has expressed his ambition to strengthen the Antwerp police by engaging volunteers who will also highlight community values of respect, commitment and pride of the Antwerp police, as well as all other local and federal police areas. Help, especially at events, would be more than welcome. In concrete terms, the mayor intends to hire volunteers to carry out missions during events, but also administrative or logistical support missions, etc. By hiring volunteers, the police will therefore be better able to focus on its core missions for which police competence is required. To be clear, missions for which police competence is required in the field of public order will continue to be carried out by police officers. But volunteers can be trained, such as police officers, and retired police officers can, if they so wish, make further contributions. There are. Providing a legal framework for a citizen police force is not an objective of the government agreement concluded on 9 October 2014. That is why it is not included in my 2018 Policy Note for Integrated Police. But if the mayor needed my partnership to do so, I would examine this proposal with him and the actors concerned in a spirit of great openness. I would add that the four parties of the majority at least must agree to move in this direction. The proposal for a volunteer policy is not new. Abroad - the Netherlands, France, Great Britain, and New York - it already exists. Moreover, in Belgium, some police forces, such as the former Hazodi police zone (Hasselt-Zonhoven-Diepenbeek), have already resorted to volunteers; perhaps not as Antwerp currently wishes, but this has already happened. In a 2014 analysis report, CPPL reports that many police forces have already called on volunteers: prevention advisers "theft", neighbourhood mediators, assistants at socio-cultural and sporting events, etc. It states that it is very favourable to volunteering within the police and also highlights several points worth attention such as the legal framework, the exclusivity of police competence for administrative tasks, professional secrecy, information management, knowledge-raising and the exchange of personal data, and training insurance. The Antwerp police are undoubtedly informed of this analysis and will give it the necessary attention as part of a possible action plan. I will therefore follow this project carefully and enthusiastically. It is permissible to establish a parallelism with the firefighters, since the volunteers took the same training and acquired the same skills as the professionals. It is clear that, for policing tasks, only people can be recruited who are trained in the potential missions they should accomplish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u14	Minister, I am struck by your response and by the fact that you can approve this project. They are voluntary people. You're talking about retired ex-police, but other citizens could volunteer. Ensuring the safety of citizens, searching them at events, requires some training!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u15	You caricature my words!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u16	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u17	No. I said that these tasks can only be carried out if we have received the appropriate training.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u18	The same training as the police today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u19	Yes, it's the same training, for the same tasks. There are administrative tasks, for example, for which some training is required.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u20	Yes, and judicial. When you have to stop someone in the field at an event, how does that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u21	Don't make me say what I didn't say. The tasks of volunteer police officers...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u22	What will they be?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u23	We'll see, it's just an idea we're studying.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u24	It's extremely dangerous. The police take an oath today. They are subject to some confidentiality. Tomorrow, these people will enter service, will not take oath, will not be subject to the same regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u25	Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u26	It is a destruction of the public service: voluntary police officers who are not paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u27	But not at all! In the case of volunteer firefighters, is this a destruction of the public service?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u28	Now I'm talking about the police function, it's not at all the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u29	I'm making a comparison with the volunteer firefighters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u30	You can't define tasks. Do you know when this project will be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u31	No. It's an idea being examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u32	I think that's ridiculous for the safety of the citizens!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u33	Mr President, Minister, at our exchange on 29 November last, you told me that the Tihange 3 power plant had been shut down following the closure of a steam generator supply valve following an oil leak from the hydraulic valve control system. However, you told me that the analysis of the incident was still under way and that it was still too early to learn from it. Minister, I would like to return today to what led the Tihange 3 plant to cease production on the night of Thursday 9th to Friday 10th November 2017. What does the analysis provide, what lessons can be learned from this event for all of our plants?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u34	Madam President, Mr Nollet, as a reminder, the Tihange 3 power plant was shut down on November 10, 2017, following the closure of a steam generator supply valve. The valve closure is due to a loss of oil from the hydraulic valve control system. Know it's an isolation valve. In the event of a problem, the valve joins its safety position, which is the closed position. After analysis, it turns out that a breakdown of the joint causes the loss of oil. These joints shall be replaced by all three periodic revisions, i.e. every 18 months. The seal of this valve was identically replaced during the last revision in 2016. The most likely causes of the breakdown of the joint are poor assembly or displacement of the joint during the assembly leading to a pinching of the joint. The analysis of the reports on emergency stops due to an unexpected closure of the valves of the normal food water system highlights the fact that there is no recurrence of such events. Following the analysis of this incident, ENGIE Electrabel decided to draft a procedure for the maintenance of the hydraulic valve control systems with stopping points and control points for potentially hazardous operations. As a second action, ENGIE Electrabel plans to raise awareness among stakeholders about the installation of the seals before the intervention during the 2018 revision stoppage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u35	Minister, at our exchange on September 13, you stated that Areva had finally agreed to launch a full analysis of all the forged component manufacturing files. Although I know that the full analysis is only planned for the end of 2018, I had committed myself to regularly making an intermediate point of the situation with you. I would like to know the first results of this analysis with regard to our plants. Have any problematic equipment already been identified and reported? Which ones? For which power plants? What follow-up has been given to these possible discoveries?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u36	Mr Nollet, Areva has launched a comprehensive analysis campaign of all the dossiers for the manufacture of forged components for the nuclear industry by the Creusot Forge plant. This analysis in different stages is still under way. After a scanning step, the documents are read one by one in depth by Areva engineers in order to detect all anomalies in the manufacturing process of each of the components as well as non-compliance with the quality process. Each of these deviations is then analyzed by an engineer specializing in the manufacture of forged components. All the findings are finally validated for each component by a committee of technical experts in the field. After these steps, deviation sheets shall be drawn up for each deviation selected. They are then transmitted to the operators. For Belgium, 102 components were supplied by Creusot Forge for our nuclear power plants. Today, the steps of digitization and in-depth rereading of documents have been completed. Most of the components are analysed and, for the most part, the deviation sheets are being prepared by Areva. For Belgium, the finalisation of this analysis is planned for 2018 by Areva. The deviation sheets are analyzed by ENGIE Electrabel as they are received. ENGIE Electrabel will immediately notify AFCN if any of the deviations lead to a safety problem for nuclear reactors. Once ENGIE Electrabel has completed its analysis of the deviation sheets provided by Areva, the security authority will finalize its assessment of this file. The AFCN believes that this finalisation will not take place at the earliest until the end of 2018. During the re-reading of these files, numerous new findings of irregularities were identified. For Belgium, to date, no anomalies affecting the safety of a component have been notified to AFCN. However, until the analysis process is complete, it is not possible to provide relevant numerical answers on the scope of the file. AFCN has regular contacts with the ASN, ENGIE Electrabel and, indirectly, with Areva on this issue. The audits are carried out very regularly by ENGIE Electrabel at Areva for the follow-up of the case. AFCN is very attentive to the file and has conducted several inspections in France as part of Electrabel's management of this complicated file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answers. I agree with you that the principle of falsifications and lies that have been orchestrated in the Creusot factory is a serious problem. You follow this carefully; I do so too. I note in your answer that if something were to be found as the cards were analyzed, the AFCN would be immediately warned. As far as I'm concerned, I'll come back to you, certainly at the end of 2018 to take stock of this unfortunate operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u38	Mr Minister, we know the neighbouring countries that are legitimately very concerned about the disastrous state of some of our nuclear power plants. During our exchange on 13 September 2017, when I pleaded for AFCN to agree to participate in a parliamentary debate in the Netherlands, you answered very firmly: "It can only be a Belgian institution like AFCN or myself, as Belgian minister, have to go to the Parliament of the Netherlands or any other country to explain itself. The opposite will not happen either." Mr Minister, do you confirm that the AFCN will ultimately participate in a debate in the Dutch Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u39	Mr Nollet, on 19 December, I had an introductory meeting with the new Dutch Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management (Infrastructur en Waterstaat). This is Mrs Van Veldhoven. At that meeting, she expressed her understanding of our position that there could be no question that the AFCN would have to go to the Dutch Parliament to explain itself. Otherwise, she would probably have had the same reaction. This does not mean, however, that we do not want to communicate transparently. We have therefore proposed that a delegation of Dutch parliamentarians make a working visit to AFCN where they can obtain explanations on the files of interest to them. The Secretary of State relayed this invitation to the House of Representatives of the Netherlands, which, according to my information, responded positively to this initiative. We are now setting the date for the visit of a delegation of Dutch parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u40	Mr Minister, therefore, rather than having AFCN visit the Netherlands, it is a delegation of Dutch parliamentarians who will come to visit us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u41	Yes. But you will agree with me that participation in a debate in Parliament has a different scope than an exchange of views on the various issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u42	Minister, you know how much I pay attention and how important I am to the work in Parliament, to what is said about it, and to the fact that we cannot lie about it. I can therefore join you on the issue of the important difference between a session in Parliament and a working session in an institution. Nevertheless, I believe it is important that the dialogue be organised with our colleagues in the Netherlands who want clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u43	Question No 22893 by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet will be dealt with in the Committee on Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u44	May I ask why? Minister, this is a question that follows on from a subject that I have already dealt with with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u45	The SCK-CEN falls within Ms Marghem's jurisdiction and the MRI falls within Ms Demir's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u46	All right. As this was the continuation of a question I had already asked you, I wanted to continue the dialogue with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u47	Madam President, Minister, the reform of Emergency Preparedness is under way and inevitably creates great concerns, particularly in the head of the staff of the barracks that will be closed from January 1, 2019. They are awaiting legislation to regulate this reform. Minister, a year ago, you said that "the staff members concerned will receive personalized support, that is, we will have an interview with each staff member to offer them different possibilities and try to find a personalized solution for everyone." Last December, this personalized interview was still waiting, especially in Libramont. However, some of your advisers would have been in contact, a particularly disappointing contact, according to members of the Civil Protection. This was not a dialogue, especially since your advisers spoke in Dutch almost all the time. In concrete terms, how do you envisage the personalized accompaniment of agents? How should it take place? Will your advisors carry out this task? What will be the agenda for the discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u48	Ms. Poncelet, opportunities for reorientation are available to staff seeking a position outside of Civil Protection. Each officer is free to respond to these opportunities, depending on his or her personal situation. However, my services advise them to consider the following options. First of all, it is about individual accompaniment. For the purpose of further research, a career coach may be appointed on a voluntary basis and at the request of a staff member. Any staff member who wishes to apply for an external position may take part in a training course in order to prepare for a selection interview - organised by the IFA, in collaboration with Selor - within each unit. Secondly, within the Internal FPS, it is possible for staff members to respond to internal job offers, particularly for functions in the emergency call centres and in the closed centres of the Office of Foreigners. For these vacancies, they can systematically participate in information sessions in order to obtain more information on the functions concerned, as well as on-site visits or job days. If other services of the Inland FPS seek reinforcement, these posts are first open to Civil Protection employees, depending on their profile. With regard to vacancies in other public services, my department is also looking for possible vacancies. To this end, he is working with FPS Finance and Justice, the Federal Police and Infrabel to identify mobility opportunities. In this context, information sessions are also possible within the units. What is the current situation? We are in the process of concluding negotiations with trade unions on the Civil Protection Statute after reform. It is very difficult to have this personalized accompaniment before closing the status debate. Yesterday I asked the unions to move quickly in order to reach a conclusion on this status. Indeed, at that time, we will be able to stand with a Civil Protection Officer and tell him: "Civil Protection 2.0 means this to you, according to all the concrete and personalized parameters". We will see the other possibilities. That's my commitment. We'll stand next to the agents. I don't know who you're talking about, but I doubt people in my firm don't speak French with Francophones. They are either administrative staff or advisors to my firm. We are making efforts for that. I know the two people involved in this process. I'm 100% sure these people are very polite. I am not saying that at times they should not search for one word or the other in French, but the language of maintenance for this type of contact will be the language of the agent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u49	Minister, thank you. I don't know the names of the people, but I want to know who was there. I didn't make up these facts. It was the Libramont Civil Protection officers themselves who told me that the interview had taken place mostly in Dutch, which had placed them in an uncomfortable situation. We can understand that. I hear we're coming to the end of the union discussions. Good. That was the subject of my next question. Will the personalized accompaniment therefore take place at the request of the agent? Will he have to call on it himself or will this service be offered? Will you respect your commitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u50	No, we'll go to the various barracks. Agents will not have to take the initiative themselves. They won't have to. They will simply have to say whether they accept the offer or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u51	I'm glad that's still possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u52	The union negotiations to determine the final content of the regulations on which this new organization will be based were to begin on November 14, 2017 and last a month. The various texts cover, inter alia, the administrative status of civil protection operational personnel, various measures relating to civil protection operational personnel, the financial status of civil protection operational personnel, the mobility of civil protection operational personnel to emergency areas, and the working time of civil protection operational personnel. Minister, my questions are as follows. Are union negotiations over? Have they resulted in the determination of final texts? If so, when will we be able to learn about it? When will these texts be applicable? What is the agenda of the royal decrees on these issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u53	Mrs Poncelet, as I said in the previous question, we are closing the union negotiations. The decrees will not become final texts until they have been signed by the King. They will all enter into force no later than January 1, 2019. However, certain provisions will already apply quickly after the publication of the texts in the Belgian Monitor so that the new Civil Protection will be fully operational from 1 January 2019. The agenda is as follows: the texts will be submitted for approval by the Council of Ministers in February. Then they will be sent for advice to the Council of State. The opinion should be delivered within 30 days. The texts will be adapted to any comments made by the Council of State and will probably be resubmitted at second reading to the Council of Ministers around Easter. They can then be signed and published at the Moniteur belge before the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u54	Thank you, Minister. I assume that the texts relating to the statutes will come in the first place, precisely to trigger what has been mentioned in the previous question, that is to say personal coaching.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u55	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u56	So these will be the first texts. All right, thank you, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u57	In the meantime, Minister, it is eight months since I asked you again for an update on this dossier. I am aware that it is a symbolic dossier and that in these times of Community stagnation there are far worse cases of destruction of the Flemish case. Here a little further down the street, in the Flemish Parliament, people seem to attach great importance to the order of protocol. Last week, a resolution on Flanders' international strategy in Europe and the world was adopted unanimously in plenary. In the very first part of the decision, the Flemish Parliament asks the Flemish Government to "...to urge the federal government and the other Länder to update the outdated cooperation agreements, as well as the obsolete protocol list, in the short term, so that Flemish diplomacy and the government members of the Länder are properly placed on the foreign forum. Minister, I have already questioned you several times about the order of protocol, because a solution to the problem is already in the Flemish government's agreement from the start of this legislature. You have shown your willingness to do this from the outset, but it does not seem to be working very well. The deadlines were shifted several times. When I first questioned you about this, it was still your goal to get things right before 21 June 2015. Afterwards, you wouldn't get stuck on a date. The last time I questioned you about this, you said that the federal government's position still had to be determined in the government. You did mention that at a meeting of the Consultation Committee in May 2017, shortly after my question, the deadline would be set. However, the Flemish Government had asked in its note that the federal government would come forward with a concrete proposal from the Consultation Committee. My questions are very simple. Firstly, is there, in the meantime, another eight months later, a federal government position on the item? Secondly, what steps do you take if necessary to unblock the file? It seems that the Flemish Parliament is unanimous in its view that it is an important issue. Thirdly, I have repeated this question over and over again, but I have not yet received an answer to it. Where exactly are the bottlenecks in the federal government? It is clear that this is a sensitive dossier. However, we do not know where the problem lies until today. Finally, I have another question. In the meantime, was the Flemish Government informed about the state of play in the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u58	Mrs Pas, first of all I would like to thank you very much for reminding me of the file at regular intervals. I confirm that the subject was placed on the agenda of the Consultation Committee by Prime Minister Bourgeois in April 2017. It was treated at the time. The Federal Government took note of Mr Bourgeois' question. I can confirm that not only the Flemish Parliament but every state parliament in this country considers it an important matter. During the preparatory work, it was clear that all the Länder share the view of Flanders in this respect. The Prime Minister is also aware of this, not least because of my actions. However, the initiative now rests with the Prime Minister, since the matter of protocol order concerns the entire federal government and its various departments, Chancellery, Foreign Affairs, Defence, the Royal House and so on, given its highly symbolic value. As you point out, the preparatory work is over. When the Prime Minister takes an initiative in the dossier, it will become clear whether there are any bottlenecks for which a compromise has to be sought. I therefore recommend that you put your question to the Prime Minister who now has the dossier in his hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u59	Of course, Minister, I would like to thank you for your answer, but you will not doubt that I will also ask him that question. I also understand the colleagues from the Flemish Parliament, who continue to insist on the dossier. After all, a revision of the order of precedence will in any way benefit the model of Flanders abroad. It does indeed have an important function. I therefore hope that the solution will be before the present legislature. The decision-making process is, after all, like Echternach's procession.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u60	Mr Vandenput is not present to ask his question No 22936. Mr Vermeulen is on another committee, he's coming. We therefore come to Mrs De Coninck's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u61	Madam President, Minister, my question is brief. On Friday, January 12th, you said in the De Afpartement broadcast: "Sedated the cessation of the return, the number of Sudanese people in our country has increased exponentially." You mentioned hundreds of Sudanese people. You saw an increase, but you said you didn't have the numbers on hand. Since you did not have the figures at the time, we would now like them here in Parliament. What is the evolution of the number of Sudanese people in our country? I suspect you're referring in particular to the Sudanese in irregular residence. What's the evolution in six months, month a month? How do you register this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u62	Madam President, Minister, in The Appointment on 12 January, you said that since the temporary suspension of repatriations to Sudan, the number of Sudanese people in our country has increased exponentially. The expulsions to Sudan have been suspended pending the outcome of the investigation by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless to a possible violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. We are, of course, aware of the context of the whole debate. This issue has often been debated, including in Parliament. Among other things, it is said that the suction effect or the fear of the suction effect was the reason for your Secretary of State's lie. I call it that, he calls it different, especially the maintenance of a communication line. Nevertheless, the suspected suction effect has been a reason for him not to tell the truth to public opinion for a television camera and not to tell the truth to the Prime Minister, who then gave Parliament incorrect information the last week before Christmas on Thursday in plenary. It's screened with that suction effect. You've done the same. You are, of course, trying to make it clear to the public that if we stop organising return flights to Sudan, there will be more Sudanese people here. There have been testimonies from aid organisations, many NGOs, who have doubts about this ruling. It may of course be that what you are saying is correct and that they do not immediately come into contact with the increase in the number of Sudanese people. What interests us are the figures. You said in The Appointment that you didn't have the numbers on hand. Can you give them to me now? We would like to have the absolute figures of a snapshot, for example this week's figures, of today, but also the figures that reflect and support evolution that there would be an exponential increase. Exponentially, of course, is not without meaning here. This means that it is happening very quickly and that we have recently been faced with a multiplication of the number of Sudanese people in our country. Secondly, how does the government deal with the Sudanese migrants in our country? What's the plan? Thirdly, what was the underlying purpose of this ruling? Do you think that a rapid resumption of repatriation to Sudan is necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u63	Madam President, thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, in an interview with the TV show De Afspraak on the VRT last Friday, you said that the interruption of the deportations of Sudanese nationals to their country of origin in recent weeks has led to an upsurge in the arrivals of these same Sudanese on national soil. You said that their "number would have increased exponentially" without providing official figures, as Mr. From Vriendt. You mentioned hundreds of additional arrivals, referring to data collected during food distributions in the district of Gare du Nord in Brussels. Your office then stated that it estimated that about one third of the people in transit in the neighbourhood in question are today Sudanese nationals. Could you tell me more about the statistical and logistical method, the study and the means used to carry it out, which allow you to say that the number of Sudanese migrants in transit to Britain who are now trampling on national soil has "increased exponentially"? The police or any other administrative body of the Federal State does not itself organise the distribution of food; it is fully managed by associations and volunteers. How, then, does the police screen and classify these migrants by nationality? How do the police or other services organize the identification of Sudanese migrants, who would form a third of the current migrant population in transit in this neighbourhood, knowing that in the face of the outcry it has aroused, the identification mission composed of shirs of the criminal regime of Omar al-Bashir is no longer in force? Could I have, if I put a written question, the exact number, week after week, of the distribution of migrants in transit according to their country of origin, at Maximilian Park, at the Gare du Nord and in Brussels in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, a political decision-maker who intends to react promptly must assess the situation at all times, a fortiori with regard to asylum and migration policy. This must certainly be the case when it comes to illegal migrants: people who fell into the hands of smugglers who made them believe that the United Kingdom was a country of Cocagne. If we are to avoid re-creation in Belgium of conditions similar to that of Calais, continuous monitoring must be ensured. This is precisely what we are working with the police and the Foreign Office. In recent years, we have also had a working group that meets regularly to discuss developments. When we observe a massive increase in migrants at a specific location, the police intervene to the extent that these people are at risk of settling. Last year, it intervened on several occasions near Gare du Nord and Parc Maximilien. I can also confirm that actions are still planned in the coming days. Why are we doing this? Because, as a government, we do not tolerate the illegal practices of smugglers and we also want to prevent camps from settling down, creating an inhumane situation, so that it is then practically impossible to go back. It is enough to be convinced of this to observe the deplorable scenes and the dramas that occurred at the time of the evacuation of the "jungle" in Calais. Last year, we saw very clearly that government policy, as we do and communicate it, has an influence on the ground. You will remember that this summer, a problem arose in and around Maximilian Park, in the form of a continuous increase in the number of illegal migrants, among whom many Sudanese were identified. The situation had reached its peak, with 500 to 600 people sleeping in the park. That is why, in September, under my impulse, we launched structural and multidisciplinary actions on a daily basis. That has received a great deal of media attention, as you will certainly remember. This increased attention to the decisive actions has apparently changed the minds of the smugglers, because at the end of October the number of transit migrants fell very sharply. I can give you a graph of figures, which shows month after month, from January to December, the interceptions of Sudanese people in Belgium. Unfortunately, since the end of November, the number has increased again, although not in the Maximilian Park, probably because of the cold but in the nearby station building of Brussels-North. The federal police do censuses almost every day, in the evening during the food distribution by the aid organizations. At the end of November, the police counted about a hundred people in the evening. By mid-December, that number had already risen to 250. Since then, we have seen the numbers increase with increasing peaks of 500 and more people present. I can tell you that last night a new peak was set for about 600 people. Turn that off in a time graph: 100, 250, 500, 600. That's an exponential curve. From experience with the many actions we have taken in the course of 2017, we know that a not negligible proportion of people come from countries such as Sudan. So it seems quite obvious to me that if the number of illegal transit migrants increases, the number of illegal Sudanese people will also increase. It is also a trend I see in the figures of the DVZ for the whole country. We have figures of the number of Sudanese people for the whole country and not specifically for the Maximilian Park in Brussels. There is a trend in that. This concerns the share of Sudanese in the total number of illegal transit migrants arrested and identified in police operations in the country. Let me give you an idea: we go from an average of 3.9 % of Sudanese people in December to an average of 5.2 % in the first 14 days of January, an increase of 25%. I also have the graph of the number of interceptions of illegal Sudanese people in Belgium throughout 2017. It is very clear that there have been large fluctuations in times when there has been a lot of media attention to the problem. We go from 316 interceptions of Sudanese people in August to 76 interceptions in October, only a quarter, a consequence of the actions. For the sake of clarity, this decrease is not due to a reduced number of interceptions of people in illegal residence in general. At this stage, I cannot scientifically prove that there is a link between the government's decision of 20 December to temporarily suspend removals to Sudan and the increase in the number of transit migrants in our country. I can't prove that scientifically. I also agree with what Mr Dewael said a few days ago in the Seventh Day, namely that we cannot know that because there have been too few police operations in and around Brussels-North in recent weeks, let alone arrests, where identifications have been carried out. I can therefore conclude from the statistics that the number of transit migrants has increased again and increased exponentially in December and January and that the number of Sudanese people in general has also increased by 25% throughout the country. The combination of these two issues is not a scientific basis, but... I also used that in De Afslag to illustrate the fact that, if Belgium is the only country that no longer does repatriations to Sudan, people smugglers would logically bring people here. That is the theorem and the other was an illustration of that theorem. Smugglers bring those people here because they think that's probably the case, too, that they'll have more time to transfer those people to the UK. If you think I shouldn't have said that in De Aangeling, then I accept that because I know what climate we live in today and because we can't scientifically prove it. As a policymaker, you will be able to assume that I will not take action until the situation is irreversible. So yes, what I said on Friday in De Aangeld happened on the basis of monitoring results from my services that identified disturbing trends based on interceptions. I do not think it is more than my duty to take this up on a policy basis. I repeat, it was a small illustration, in brackets, of the basic setting or the basic understanding. That is: if we are the only country, and so on. It's in nobody's best interest, not even the transit migrants, not to do anything. The only ones that get better are the smugglers. I would like answers to some specific questions. Mr De Vriendt, you asked if we would be able to resume our repatriation as soon as possible. The answer to this is one that we give with the whole government and that the Prime Minister has already given a number of times: we await the report from the CGVS and on the basis of the conclusions of that report we will then take policy decisions. I hope, however, that we will be able to repatriate. It is obvious that we will not do that in torture, but I hope that we will be able to do so for the reasons I have just explained. Mr Hellings, the way in which the police determine a person's nationality is based on fingerprints that may correspond to those taken during previous arrests in the country or abroad, or according to their own statements. When people apply for asylum, we offer them a welcome: the lodging and the shelter. If people don't show up, it's their own choice. I can provide you with the required statistics if you send me a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You're Minister of the Interior. That's a very important post. You are a leader in our country. I find it very difficult for you, although you are wise enough, to say that the number of Sudanese people in our country has increased exponentially since the return was stopped. You know that it is not possible to get here within three or four days via human smugglers from Sudan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u66	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u67	That's another story.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u68	Mrs. De Coninck, getting a single sentence out of an interview is not correct. I said this in order to illustrate that if we are the only country that would not pursue a return policy, something must be done for us at European level too; we will become the well in the bathtub. Then people smugglers from other countries will bring refugees here. That's the basics.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u69	Minister, I must confess that I find "the well of the bath" a difficult expression. We really need a European policy and we must not organise flows between the different Member States. That's not efficient, and it doesn't make anyone any better. I therefore call for solidarity in order to implement a common policy in this area. For the sake of clarity, I am not in favour of many illegal transit migrants, nor of smugglers, nor of camps. However, I would argue that a minister who has a leading position should be cautious about such statements. I have already said that I do not believe that they will be coming from Sudan very soon. In that connection, I look at the figures I have here. Perhaps it can be scientifically proven that the climate has something to do with it. It may also be that censuses carried out on people who come looking for help from the organisations point out that climate, the cold, can also be an element. I'll let you do checks. However, realize that the more aggressive the policy is, the more underground it is. And as soon as it goes underground, we won't be able to see it at all. What bothers me is that on television you announced to the people that you had decided with the government to wait for the results of the investigation and not to repatriate, but that then the bomb exploded because, you stated, suddenly the Sudanese are coming here with hundreds. You're talking about an exponential increase. What message does that give you when you are so concerned about the safety of the people? I'm having a hard time with that. No one is perfect, although politicians are required to do so nowadays. I would ask you to turn your tongue twice next time before making such statements. Of course, I have nothing to say to you, but I'm giving it to you from a peer-reviewed, positive reflex.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u70	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, I agree with Mrs De Coninck's reasoning. By saying something like that, you're summoning a doomsday. You say that the government has stopped the expulsion policy and that we are then flooded by Sudanese people, with all the problems they have. This at least raises the question of whether it is not appropriate to restart the expulsions, as the Sudanese are otherwise inundating massively. I may not have to explain to you in detail how this is going to happen. Your statements are unsophisticated, while the debate calls for nuance. By the way, you yourself admit that there have been too few actions in recent weeks to know if there is a causal link. That is why I shall look again at the figures you have given. At first glance, the exponential increase in the number of future Sudanese people is already underway prior to the suspension of repatriation flights. You are talking about a number of 100 by the end of November, while there are 250 in mid-December, still before the suspension of repatriation flights. So that's times 2.5. This increase, which was already going on in particular, may have continued. Such a causal link is therefore difficult to establish. You want to avoid a situation like that in Calais. So are we. I believe that this is best done by not following the French example and leaving these people to their fate, but by providing shelter and providing information on asylum procedures. I will follow you when you say that we must try to get them out of the hands of the smugglers. In the Maximilian park, too, pamphlets should be handed out, not only about return, but also about asylum procedures in our country and the possibilities for doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u71	That information shall be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u72	I know this has been going on for a month now, but in the summer and early autumn we were given pamphlets containing only information about return. This is a capital mistake of our government. You have to admit this, don't you? You said that this was adequately corrected. We take note of that, but at least in the past there has been a great deal of error in that regard. As far as the return of Sudanese people is concerned, this can only be done after an Article 3 review has been carried out. In the meantime, it has been found that this has not been done adequately for the 9 parties concerned. The Foreign Affairs Office also admits this through Mr Roosemont because he is talking about a minimal review. As the secretary of state's custody, could you please pass on that remark? That review of Article 3 must take place and there should also be no cooperation with agents of the regime. If a neutral, objective decision is reached, it is possible to return. When it comes to people who do not come from a war zone or are not persecuted politically, a return can indeed be made. However, a number of safety valves need to be installed and we do not believe that they have been sufficiently respected in recent months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u73	Minister, on Friday you said that the number of Sudanese on Belgian soil had increased exponentially, which probably caused – but as Mr. De Vriendt that was the goal pursued – a form of emotion in the population that had the impression of being invaded by the Sudanese. It also galvanized your troops gathered on Sunday. Today is Wednesday and you have just stated that you could not scientifically prove to us that there is a link between the cessation of Sudanese removals to Sudan and this exponential increase. Minister, there is no exponential increase if there is no scientific evidence. You need to base your political discourse and the decisions you make on realities that are actually recognized and proven scientifically or at least on data. However, if I refer to the graph you have given us, I do not see any exponential increase in the level of inquiry. On the contrary, between November and December, there was a rise from 117 to 92. You start from the assumption – that's the term you used –...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u74	Mr Hellings, everyone can have their own interpretation of a graph. There is no mention here of the number of Sudanese at Maximilian Park. I have given you figures, and even more details will be sent to you in writing. In any event, there are 100 Sudanese migrants before 15 November, 250 in mid-December, 500 on 1 January and 600 yesterday. If we draw a curve on the basis of these figures, we can say that the increase is exponential.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u75	We will see exactly what happens when we receive your written answers. In any case, it is certain that you have declared that this cannot be proven scientifically. When you make the decision to announce in a media that enjoys a great listening an exponential increase, you must be able to prove it scientifically. I would remind you that you also said that this was a hypothesis, a political reasoning. This is, in fact, a reasoning similar to that of your colleague in charge of asylum, which is based on the air call. And you keep proving on the basis of figures that are not scientifically validated that there is an air call to justify your policy. In my view, you could justify your policy other than by referring to figures that are not scientifically proven. I witnessed an arrest at the North Railway Station. Only black people were arrested by the police. They're not necessarily Sudanese. It is therefore necessary to know how to determine which Sudanese are. You explain to me the entire procedure to identify the Sudanese, depending on the introduction of an asylum application via their fingerprints. But most of these people are not asylum seekers. They are not in the Dublin system and the fingerprinting system does not apply. Therefore, before announcing an exponential increase, it is necessary to be able to explain how this increase is measured. How do we determine whether these people are Sudanese? This seems difficult to me, looking away at the volunteers handing out sandwiches. Today, migrants receive information from smugglers. It's an extremely problematic traffic. Passers could be completely bypassed by opening a reception and orientation centre that would provide information in a human context, where people eat to their hunger and sleep a minimum. Finally, you say that the government's policy has had an influence in reducing the number of Sudanese arrests. Your graph shows very clearly that from summer to autumn, there is a decrease. But I regret to have to tell you that there are thousands of people, especially in Brussels, who will feed these people every night and then take them in their private car to citizens who do the work that should normally be done by the Belgian State. It is absolutely not your policy that explains this decrease in the number of Sudanese arrests at Maximilian Park and North Station. It is simply the human sense of people who, every night, are at Maximilian Park to help these people in transit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u76	Minister, you are just like me paying attention to nuclear safety. Can you describe the steps taken to ensure that the AFCN inspectors' legitimization card, which allows them to enter any nuclear site, is not falsifiable? What is the nature of this map? What measures are being taken to ensure that it is unfalsifiable? Does this card have an electronic chip? Does this card have a hologram that prevents its reproduction? Does this map have an apparent relief that reverses when it is turned 180° (top bottom) and/or disappears during a 90° rotation? Does this card have a fingerprint system that associates it with its owner? Are these cards printed on a very special printer? How are these maps made, either internally or externally to the agency? Are some of the cards or have they been manufactured by a company outside the agency? If so, what is the nature of this undertaking? What security guarantee does it provide? What security clearance does it have? What information and listings have been provided to this company? Can you guarantee that the same type of device as on the simple ID card, which prevents easy reprinting, exists at least? What confidentiality is guaranteed to inspectors with regard to the data on these cards, when it is known that some of them have the highest level of security clearance, which requires extreme caution in this regard? Overall, is it not urgent to review the Royal Decree of September 11, 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u77	Mr Nollet, the legitimation card issued to nuclear inspectors complies with the prescriptions and directives of the Royal Decree of 11 September 2014, as you have just said, and in accordance with the Royal Decree appointing the nuclear inspectors. This nuclear inspector card is nominative and personal. It is in no way transferable. These cards are made internally at the AFCN by an authorized person. The computer system that allows the creation of these cards works in stand-alone mode. It is therefore not connected to any internal or external network. They are printed on a specific non-shared and networked printer. They are made using a specific software that makes the creation of the map more complex. Currently, the nuclear inspector legitimization card does not have an electronic chip, a hologram, or a specific relief. In case of non-availability of the system, the cards can be made by a specialized firm applying therefore additional security measures. With regard to the confidentiality guaranteed to inspectors, personal data of a private nature concerning the natural person are only kept at AFCN. Each operator, on the other hand, can easily verify whether a person is authorized to carry a nuclear inspector card, via the name list of the Royal Decree, which can be consulted on the AFCN website, Section Jurion. However, a reflection is under way to make legitimation cards more secure, to adapt them to current technologies and, if necessary, to amend the royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u78	Minister, I will start from your last sentence. Do you not have the impression, as these cards do not have electronic chips, holograms, reliefs or prints - in short, since at the moment it is a plasticised beast card - that it would be absolutely and quickly appropriate to review the royal decree? That the impression respects the royal decree, I have no doubt. But, precisely, my question is to make you aware of the problem. I think when you answered me, you realized that. When you remember what happened to a senior CEN-SCK leader, you have to convince yourself of the absolute need to change the system. Don't you feel that way?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u79	I can repeat what I just told you. We're thinking about better card security.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u80	There!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u81	To this end, you have just appointed different techniques of the twenty-first century. However, I cannot tell you whether we must necessarily adapt the royal decree to make the card safer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u82	All right. You may distinguish the modification of the map from that of the royal decree. I can understand that. Secondly, I would like to go back to one aspect of your answer, for which you have failed to make it clear, even if the second part was clearer. You explained to me that it was done in-house, but if the special printer was not available, you turned to external services. That has already been the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u83	Yes, we used it once.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u84	Because of the unavailability of the device? I'll take the time to analyze your answer. Thank you, anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u85	Minister, following numerous serious problems in the communication of the AFCN, its Board of Directors decided in June 2015 to conduct a full audit of the Agency's communication. It is recalled that the newspaper Le Soir had highlighted very interesting excerpts from this audit. I quote one or the other: "When we ask the Steering Committee what its position is on a particular subject, because the journalists contact us, they leave us unanswered or quarrel with each other because they do not agree. In the meantime, the press waits and realizes that we do not have a firm and sharp position; it is not professional." A icing on the cake, the spokespersons are aware of sometimes speaking inconsistently. "Sometimes I have to answer a journalist because I find myself under pressure and I no longer have a choice and I know that what I'm talking about doesn't stand the way. I feel awfully bad," says an employee. I stop quoting the newspaper Le Soir and repeat my question. Minister, this audit also included a series of first recommendations. Twenty months after the release of this audit and several years after the resolution adopted almost unanimously by the House – and which already referred to this issue – I would like to take stock with you. What has been implemented? What still needs to be implemented and on what timetable? Which people now carry the communication within the Agency? What is your feeling as the appropriate minister? Do you have the overall impression that the Agency's communication is organised as one can expect in view of its important tasks vis-à-vis the Belgian population?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u86	Mr Nollet, the audit recommendations you are talking about have been taken into account and have given new impetus to AFCN's internal and external communication. Any communication element is executed by the dedicated service, under the responsibility of the management. Sometimes the communication is made by the Directorate itself, for example when AFCN is invited here by the Sub-Committee on Nuclear Safety. So I can tell you that I too have noticed this new momentum of communication within the AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u87	Once it is not customary, minister, I am not very happy with the answer. It is you who evaluate your comments in terms of content and orientation. But as far as the details are concerned, when I ask you what has been implemented and what still needs to be implemented, you tell me that there is a new momentum. What does that mean in practice? What are the concrete changes that have been made? Who are the ones who still have to be? A new impetus cannot be enough given the scale of the audit that I still have before me. We received a copy of it. I would like you to be more specific about what has been implemented, what is not yet implemented, and when. You can also tell me that you are not in a position to do so today and I will then come back to you in the next committee, but I will not be satisfied with the fact that you consider, as the management says, that there is a new momentum. That's not what we were waiting for. We expected changes in depth in view of the importance of the audit. Minister, if you can't tell me more today, I'll come back to you in a next committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u88	Mr Nollet, I would like to give you an appointment at the next committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u89	Minister, on April 26, 2007, the House adopted a resolution almost unanimously calling on the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA) to, among other things, take the necessary steps to obtain quality certification. Can you tell me when AFCN obtained ISO 9001 certification for the first time? Has she ever lost it since then? If so, when and especially why?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u90	Mr. Nollet, AFCN obtained ISO 9001 certification for the first time on 28 November 2008. Since the beginning of 2017, the Agency has decided not to extend its ISO certification since it is currently implementing the management system, a management system that meets the standards of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), encompassing the following themes: cross-cutting process approach, accountability, resource management, coherent management, system improvement, etc. Recommended by the Integrated Regulatory Review Service (IRRS), AFCN's management system is based on a highly cross-cutting approach. The last IRRS mission supports the CFNA approach and encourages it to continue along this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u91	There, minister, there is a real problem. That the Federal Agency must meet the IAEA standards and that the recommendations must be followed, of course! Let there be inspections linked to it, of course! We know that. But, so that the Agency can afford to do without ISO 9001 certification, I cannot accept it. Because it's an external look that's quite different. It is a quality look, not a look specifically related to nuclear energy, but a general look. In 2008, the Agency was proud to seek ISO certification following the Board's recommendation. And, in 2017, a little bit in catimini, the Agency decided to completely change its line. In fact, it's because she can't get to that outside look and she's afraid she won't get that certification. I would ask you to intervene to ask him to restart the ISO 9001 procedures and to come back with this external look, even if it does not reach him anymore and there is a real problem. It is not by closing our eyes that we will realize the difficulties and problems that need to be resolved within the Agency. I invite you, Minister, following the audits that you have initiated, to ask them to have the honesty, honesty and courage to return to ISO 9001 certification, in addition to everything else the IAEA is doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u92	Mr President, Minister, we know that the Agency is planning to spend €879,000 in 2018 to cover the severance benefits of eight people. Can you explain to us what drives these dismissals and this sudden decision, when a new Director General is about to arrive? What positions are targeted? What are the criteria and motivations for the persons concerned? On the basis of what legal and negotiated sector committee system - which you chair - will these redundancies be organised? Do you guarantee the replacement of these people and that this is not a job removal? As the appropriate minister, do you find it normal and acceptable for the Agency to proceed by drawing on its reserves to finance these redundancies? What do you intend to put in place to ensure that Recommendation 15 of the resolution adopted, almost unanimously by our Assembly - minus three abstentions - on 26 April 2007 is respected? Could you provide us with complete information on the use of the reservations made and envisaged by the AFCN? Finally, could you provide me with the opinion of the FPS Budget on the proposed budget tabled by the PSAN?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u93	Mr Nollet, I do not intervene in the recruitment or dismissal of AFCN. This is part of the day-to-day management of human resources within the Agency. I respect his independence. It is clear that the AFCN must comply with the applicable labour laws regarding its statutory and contractual employees. The budgets that the Budget Minister and I approved in previous years were ESA (European System of National and Regional Accounts), neutral or positive. For years to come, the goal will be the same. The approved 2018 budget has a positive ESA balance of €8,380.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u94	Minister, I am not used to receiving such "dry" answers on your part - to use the term you have just used - so dry to be correct. I understand that these very specific and pointed questions cause discomfort. Of those that concern us now, of course, you are not the AFCN, but the minister responsible for AFCN. If there is a problem with redundancies, if there is a use of reserves to finance redundancies, whereas it is contrary to point 15 of the resolution adopted by the House - which I have before me - you seem to me to have a duty to provide us with precise information. Why did the AFCN decide to dismiss eight people? Why does it consider it able to finance this on its reserves? These are politically problematic things with regard to the resolution adopted by the House. On the basis of which legal system will it do so? You're not answering. Because no legal system has been negotiated in a sector committee. Are these positions lost or just people to be replaced? I don't have an answer either. Will you provide us with the opinion of the FPS Budget on this issue? No answer either. Minister, I ask you to be more complete. If you can't be today, tell me and I'll be back in two weeks. But remaining as superficial in relation to the concrete issues raised here is surprising. I'm not used to you. Do you already have anything to communicate to me now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u95	Mr Nollet, we will be discussing this in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u96	Minister, you will have noticed that today I have asked you a number of questions related to the follow-up of previous decisions and audits. It's also my role. During our exchange on 17 October, you replied that the AFCN experts were analysing the Greenpeace report which they had just received and which demonstrated and denounced the shortcomings in the nuclear safety of reactors and swimming pools in Belgium. You announced that based on the analysis, the AFCN would draw the necessary conclusions. More than three months after it was tabled, I would like to hear about the analysis of this report by the AFCN. What new elements has the Agency removed? What conclusions have been made as a result of this analysis? What actions do you intend to take, and on what timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u97	Mr Nollet, on 17 October last, Greenpeace was transmitting to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, via the Federal Crisis Centre of the Internal FPS, a report on nuclear safety. This report, commissioned by Greenpeace France, deals with the analysis of the risks and potential consequences of malicious acts against French and Belgian nuclear sites – mainly fuel storage pools – and proposes associated reinforcement measures. This classified report, along with suggestions for improvement, was analyzed in detail by the PSAN. Although the document mainly mentions French nuclear facilities and to a lesser extent describes the situation in Belgium, the scenarios and conclusions contained in the report were examined by AFCN. Following this initial internal analysis and in line with its desire to maintain constructive relations with all stakeholders, the Agency met on 8 January with representatives of Greenpeace France and Greenpeace Belgium to discuss the report. During the meeting, AFCN thanked Greenpeace for its contribution and confirmed that it took note of the suggestions contained in the report, which are part of AFCN's desire for continuous improvement. Also during this meeting, the Commission presented its conclusions. The Agency confirms that the safety of Belgian power plants, and in particular of swimming pools where spent fuel is stored, complies with all applicable national and international regulations. Based on the 2011 nuclear safety regulations, in-depth analyses have been conducted for all Belgian power plants, in which the potential impact of malicious acts has been carefully studied. All measures have been taken to ensure an adequate level of security at all times. It is also a process of continuous improvement, in which the PSAN periodically reassesses the situation and as a result, improvement measures can be taken. Our nuclear facilities have also been subjected to stress tests. The Agency shall take into account all important contributions that any interested party may make in terms of the safety and security of Belgian nuclear installations. All of this is in line with AFCN's desire to seek continuous improvement and to maintain frank and constructive relations with stakeholders on the basis of mutual respect and active listening. The report has also been addressed in this way and concludes that the measures put in place are sufficient to address the identified threats. These measures are also regularly reviewed and each facility must adjust its safety accordingly. The recognition of the additional measures confirms the existing security plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u98	Minister, I will be more positive in this reply than in previous ones. Like you, I welcome the dialogue that the Agency has had with Greenpeace Belgium and Greenpeace France. I believe that their contribution, for the public part I was able to see, was challenging and deserved the Agency to take the time for discussion in Belgium. That's a good thing. You know that in France, following the publication of this report and perhaps discussions with your colleague, a committee of inquiry has been set up. I am not asking to set up a committee of inquiry here. On the other hand, I think that work could usefully continue in the nuclear safety sub-committee because we have the instrument not identical but parallel to that which France will try to initiate. Beyond this meeting and the information, we can see the usefulness of Greenpeace's work, of this Greenpeace Belgium and Greenpeace France report, since they are able to provide additional information to the Federal Agency. We see the usefulness of this work vis-à-vis the government, but it could also be useful, it seems to me, for Parliament, in such a way that we can share this conclusion which is yours today, namely that the measures taken are sufficient. As far as I'm concerned, I obviously believe you, but I like to be able to check and ask my own questions. I know that this is beyond the work of this committee, but I think it would be a useful follow-up. I shall try to touch on the chairman of the nuclear safety sub-committee. I welcome this positive and constructive dialogue and can only invite the Agency to continue its regular, permanent and constructive work with Greenpeace.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u99	Minister, you will recall our exchange of December 14, 2016 on the same subject. Indeed, you have a hell of a memory. You told me at the time: "Mr. Bens was appointed by royal decree of 5 December 2012. It will reach the legal pension age on 5 April 2018. A successor must therefore be chosen and presented for appointment by royal decree. He or she will take up his or her duties no later than 1 May 2018. For reasons of continuity, it is proposed that the successor enter into service as of January 1, 2018." I would like to highlight that date. I continue my quote: "Possibly, he will take up his duties on a part-time basis, so as to allow a smooth transfer of experience and knowledge of the files, on the understanding that he will not truly assume the function of Director General until 1 May 2018." The Board took a position on June 30, 2017 by proposing Mr. Hardeman. I would like to know when the royal decree appointing him was adopted and published in the Monitor. Do you confirm that Mr. Hardeman's entry into service took place on January 1, 2018, as you were telling me on December 14, 2016? What time does the future DG devote to this smooth transfer? Is this a half-time, as mentioned in your previous answer, or, given the importance of the task, has it been able to clear up more time than this half-time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u100	Mr.Nollet, the new AFCN language frameworks were published on January 12, 2018. Everything is now ready to propose an appointment to the Council of Ministers. We await the conclusion of the contractual negotiations between the candidate and the board of directors, which are expected to be concluded shortly. You understand that before this negotiation is concluded, I cannot disclose any name or terms. In fact, contractual negotiations are still under way. I must tell you, however, that the board of directors unanimously proposed a candidate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u101	I allowed myself to quote the name because I learned that the board of directors had proposed that person. I understand you're careful. Indeed, as long as the negotiations are not over, there is no certainty. I am a little surprised at the delay in the timetable compared to what was announced, namely on 1 January. You announced four months of part-time service. It's now mid-January, and he's not here. It's already a first delay. What surprises me above all is that negotiations on the contract are still under way. I thought everything was clear about the terms of the appeal. In addition, the Management Board took a position on 30 June 2017. And you're telling me we're still negotiating the salary. That's, at least, what I'm guessing. It's still weird. Wouldn't a problem hide behind all this? If the Board decides, on June 30, 2017, to appoint Mr.X, we are today, on January 17, 2018 and we still do not have a signed contract. And I'm not talking about the royal decree that will follow. Is that not surprising, minister? As far as I am concerned, I find it anomalous that things are not settled when the person concerned had been chosen and his entry into office had been decided by 1 January. Your answer does not allow me to see where the node of the problem is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u102	There are two elements. Actually, there's no problem. But the implementation of the linguistic framework took time, until January 12, 2018. In addition, the employee must complete his or her notice with his or her former employer before taking up his or her new position.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u103	I take note of these elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u104	Minister, I should not stress here the importance of the ongoing training and training of our police officers, particularly with regard to the use of equipment. We know that the capabilities of the shooting training infrastructure remain problematic. I have witnessed this again this morning in the police college in the Brussels-West area, where the question of maintaining the infrastructure at our disposal is being raised and which is taking water, in its own right and in its figurative form, on all sides. That is why we expect much from the Masterplan Infrastructures to plan and implement the needs in this area. If such projects obviously take time, I would like to know the details of the implementation of the infrastructure for the shooting stands in accordance with the GPI 48. How many shooting centres are currently accessible and available to our police officers? What is their capacity? How many police officers do training and shooting training sessions per year? How is the level of police control over shooting assessed? Are police officers currently waiting for mandatory sessions and how are we managing this state of affairs and needs within our police services? Finally, can you tell me whether new investments are planned in the near future to meet the existing needs for fire training infrastructure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u105	Mr. Pivin, the federal police have 14 shooting stands throughout the country. In addition to these shooting stands, there are also areas and police schools. However, the Federal Police does not have a cadastre of shooting stands for police areas or schools and therefore cannot provide precise data on this issue. It is risky to provide a precise answer as to the capability of a shooting stand, the practical use depending on different factors, for example an operational imperative, which means that a training can be cancelled. On the basis of a methodology developed within the federal police, a theoretical shortfall in the number of shooting stands has been identified for the federal police, which is confirmed by a study by the P Committee. However, I would like to point out that, as part of exemplary cooperation between the police and Defence, Defence provides support for the provision of its own shooting stands for the benefit of the police, thereby reducing the internal deficit in the federal police. Members of the operational framework receive initial training in the area of violence control, including shooting as part of their basic training provided by violence control specialists in the various police schools. Continuing training is also conducted on a needs-based basis for staff members who, following a change of assignment or the assignment of a new mission or means, are required to apply police techniques or to use weapons other than those for which they have already been trained. More generally, all members of the operational framework who perform an operational function must participate throughout their careers at least five sessions in each twelve-month period, in accordance with the requirements of circular GPI 48 of 17 March 2006 on training and training in violence control for staff members of the operational framework. More specifically, this is a minimum of four training sessions, 16 hours a year, to be followed by all police officers. These sessions cover the four areas of competence defined in this circular, namely psychosocial skills, physical skills in controlling violence without firearms, physical skills in controlling violence with firearms, and police intervention techniques and tactics. In addition to the ongoing formative evaluation conducted by the training officers during the sessions, the fifth mandatory annual session is devoted to a certificate evaluation of the level of mastery of the police officers in the four areas mentioned. As for the training of members of the operational framework who do not perform an operational function but who are still in possession of their service weapon, it has at least one session per year. The certificate evaluation takes place during the session itself. At present, however, it is not possible for me to provide sufficiently reliable figures on the number of police officers for whom this would not be the case. Circular GPI 48 assigns primary responsibility for monitoring and control to the various competent authorities, i.e. the chiefs of local police forces and, in the case of the federal police, as the case may be, to the Directors-General and Commissioner-General. It should be noted that different representatives may entrust this responsibility to an authority designated by them. There is therefore no generalised procedure for all police services and I cannot specify the number of police officers for whom there should be a delay compared to the minimum number of meetings prescribed. A system for monitoring and monitoring staff participation in shooting training sessions has been developed in the personnel management information technology tool. This GALOP system has been operational for the entire integrated police since the beginning of 2017. However, it is still difficult at present to extract sufficiently reliable data. Not all police areas have become used to it and its use has not always been consistently respected at the level of federal police entities. This is why, again recently, through a note by the Commissioner General, attention has just been formally drawn to the importance of monitoring and follow-up of these trainings, particularly for the federal police. The aim now is to move towards more precise monitoring of compliance with the minimum number of meetings and to obtain a more complete view of the number of police officers whose delays would be regrettable. Within the framework of the Federal Police Masterplan Infrastructures, many projects incorporate a qualitative and quantitative levelling of shooting stand capabilities. At this stage, I agreed to the plan to centralize the federal police in Liège Vottem, Ghent-Groenbedrijf, and Antwerp Valar. I also agreed with the project to upgrade the Jumet site, which includes renovations as well as extensions. The shooting stand capacity on this site will be increased in the coming years. It is also envisaged to assess to what extent the creation of a new shooting stand would be possible at the White Hall site in Brussels. I have expressed my support for the renovation of the entire site, which offers the possibility of extending the capacity in shooting stands for the police in Brussels. In the long run, the objective will be to allow the federal police to have full autonomy in the area of shooting stand capacity. Should it fail, excess capacity may be made available to the police areas or even to the customs service of the FPS Finances.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u106	Thank you, Minister. I link the beginning of your answer to its end; I hear the initiatives taken. But I'm pretty surprised to hear there's no cadastre. Finally, when we say that we are going to strengthen a particular site, we need an overview of what already exists. That's exactly the conversation we had in the police area this morning. It was said that we should not continue to put money on a collapsing building. Let's go somewhere else, where there are possibilities. Now, you say we don't have a general cadastre. I suggest that someone should be responsible for drawing up the cadastre of all the stands at the disposal of the various police services in Belgium. It seems a little weird to me that it doesn't exist today. For the rest, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u107	Minister, police training takes place in the various police schools following the selection and recruitment stages. In February 2017, Islam courses were delivered at the Brussels Regional and Intercommunal Police School (ERIP). They had raised a number of questions within police personnel about the framework and content of these learning modules. We have learned that these courses have been interrupted. In May 2017, the federal government decided to take further action to address the terrorist threat. These measures are aimed at the organisation and operation of the integrated police force and thus also at improving knowledge and training. On the other hand, you confirmed that the recruitment and selection working group had made recommendations, including a more coherent management of the effectiveness of police schools in language cupolas. Minister, do you confirm that the ERIP has interrupted the courses of Islam? If so, has an assessment of this failure been requested from your department for specific support in this area, in particular under the R plan? If not, do you consider it useful to take an initiative in this area? How many other police schools deliver or plan to deliver Islam courses to future police officers? If other schools run these types of courses, are they comparable to those in the ERIP?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u108	Mr.Pivin, as a reminder, three training sessions were given to the ERIP under the title "Tough issues around Islam and Islamism" in February, March and May 2017 in both language regimes. This training was initiated by the Antwerp police force, which taught courses in 2016 and 2017. The Asse Police Academy also provided training on 10 October 2017. Other ongoing training courses on Islam are organized by different organizations of the ERIP. I'll give you a table showing the data. There is also a continuous training journey to staff members. It begins with training 3883 COPPRA - End User to continue with training 5864 on "Tough Issues around Islam and Islamism" and ends with training 6039 on "Learning and Approaching the Concept of Jihadist and Muslim Radicalism". The latter two courses are provided by the Centre for Expertise and Advice on Prevention and Intervention for Radicalism and Extremism. In addition, several clusters in basic formation address certain societal phenomena, including Islam for the basic framework: cluster 6.3.5 (explaining the elements of anti-racism and anti-discrimination offences); cluster 7.2.8 (identifying and recording the signals and phenomena of radicalism and extremism – COPPRA); cluster 12 (incorporating social phenomena as a whole). The training entitled "Tough issues around Islam and Islamism" was effectively discontinued by decision of the Brussels Region. In the framework of the National Security Plan and following the decision taken by the training council of the ERIP, it was decided to set up a working group to establish the actual training needs in the field of radicalisation in the territory of Brussels in the relevant police areas. Things are taken care of. The ERIP initially proposes to set up a first meeting with the various people, the Brussels police areas as well as the coordinator of the Federal Police and an expert from the Region. This first meeting should focus particularly on the needs and problems encountered by Brussels colleagues, but also on identifying the lines of strength of future continuing training so that it can be in line with the expectations formulated by the people on the ground. This meeting should allow for a clear exchange of views among participants so that the direction taken is relevant and efficient. It goes without saying that the term "radicalism" is often linked to various types of crime such as trafficking in documents, weapons and/or drugs. This is why it is requested that the person representing his police area provide precise expertise on the current situation while being fully aware of the needs of the field and the reality of street work. Once the specific needs have been identified, the working group will decide how the ongoing training should be implemented, its content and the various stakeholders. The aim is to be able to finalize the accreditation dossier in the first half of this year. The first meeting will take place on 2 February at the ERIP.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u109	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u110	Minister, as we all know, the registration of criminal and criminal offences, as well as reports by our police services, is centralized in the general national police database, the BNG. The management and maintenance of this data bank is crucial to the effectiveness and protection of our services. You have already allowed the legalised access of the BNG to the services of the Office of Foreigners, as part of the asylum procedure. You have also recently confirmed that you are working to expand access to this database to the prosecution service, the OCAM or the CTIF. Minister, according to some information, there seems to be a delay in updating this database. Could you then indicate which services manage the update of the BNG? What procedures are in place to ensure data encoding? How many people are entitled to this encoding to date? Does a specific police personnel cell control it? If a backlog of encoding is found, can you tell me whether your services have been able to plan the work to be done to ensure an update, as well as to inform me of the decisions made to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u111	Mr Pivin, in order to avoid any confusion, it is appropriate to recall that the BNG is fed differently depending on the type of data concerned. With regard to the encoding of judicial alerts, it is the DJO-VSS service which is responsible for this, pursuant to COL 11/2013. The encoding of judicial alerts was indeed delayed, in the order of 18,000 alerts in July 2017. However, since December 2017, this delay has been completely eliminated as a result of the various measures taken, notably through the recruitment of twenty CSDs on 18 September, as well as through efforts to standardise both the form and content of the data transmitted with a view to their encoding. The common will of the parties concerned, the police and the justice system, is to lead as soon as possible to the establishment of structural solutions guaranteeing the optimal treatment of such alerts. With respect to other data, it should be noted that the BNG is automatically fed by a flow of data from local ISLP, SIDIS and GHG applications used within both the local and federal police. The ISLP and SIDIS applications are intended, among other things, to prepare minutes. The GHG application is used to facilitate the management of judicial investigations. To our knowledge, there is no delay in structural encoding in BNG. The only delay that may exist depends on an officer who would delay writing a report or reporting an investigation. There is therefore no cell within the integrated police that is responsible for either feeding this BNG or controlling its feeding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u112	Minister, I think that from the moment you provide such positive information, it would deserve as much attention as the delay. Since the delay was the subject of such an important article, I find that, in early 2018, it would take the same article to say that six months later, there was nothing left. It would be just justice. That would in any case seem fair to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u113	Mr President, Mr Minister, I will be cautious about this question because I think I know that one of my colleagues has already asked you about it a while ago. So I don't know if you'll mention it in your answer, but I just want to say this. I have collected information that has been published and that shows a sharp decrease in the number of judicial police operations carried out in schools in our country. According to the figures, no operations were carried out in the Brussels Region in 2017, less than 10 in Wallonia and 24 in Flanders. Minister, are these figures correct? How many such operations were conducted in 2015 and 2016 by the zonal police and the federal police? According to what type of information and according to what procedures are these police operations carried out? What are the contacts with schools? How many police officers were mobilized in 2017 and in previous years? How many of these operations have enabled the detection of illegal acts transmitted to the public prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u114	Mr President, my colleague, since 1 April 2015, a national data bank has been activated at the level of the administrative police - the maintenance of public order. This database is fed by both the local police and the federal police via the BEPAD (Bestuurlijke Politie-Police Administrative) input tool. Unlike the National Judicial Data Bank, there is no such mandatory requirement to register administrative police events, especially when a police force employs only its own personnel to manage an event. It is also appropriate to note that many fields of information (free texts) are present, which makes it very difficult to use statistics. In other words, this means that the completeness of administrative police data cannot be guaranteed and therefore the figures given at this stage only give an overview of the reality. The existing nomenclature makes it possible to filter out a whole series of police actions, such as "drug" controls, which remain, in practice, the main type of action carried out in schools. It is not possible to formally determine the type of institution concerned, mainly because the free texts in question often contain only the name of the school. It should also be noted that apart from the "drug" controls, there is no real view of any other actions/operations carried out by the police forces in schools. As for the figures for 2015, 2016 and the first half of 2017, there were 6, 25, 25 operations in Flanders, 3, 14 and 8 operations in Wallonia and 0, 1, 0 operations in Brussels-Capital. In the second half of 2017, we can still reach the 2016 record. In conclusion, it can be said that the figures on the subject published in the media for the first half of 2017 are in line with what can be found in the national administrative police database. Moreover, by comparing the figures available for the first half of 2017 with those for the years 2015 and 2016 as a whole, we can clearly see that there is also no decrease in judicial police operations in schools in our country. Reading the free text tells us that these police actions/operations often take place at the request of the schools themselves who suspect drug problems. In addition to the operations reported in response to the first question, here is the overall number of police officers reported as having been mobilised in such actions/operations: 28, 156, 173 in Flanders; 55, 109, 81 in Wallonia and 0, 1, 0 in Brussels-Capital. They're the same numbers. This means that this only action is carried out by a police officer. Information on the number of detections of illegal acts is not available in the national administrative police database.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u115	Minister, we can see that in the Brussels Region, this has increased by 100% between 2015 and 2016! There is, in any case, a margin of progress. Minister, I understand that you can't give any more details on this. Thank you for those you have already communicated to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u116	Debates of the European Parliament 23227 by Mrs Ben Hamou is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Top 23034 will be dealt with in the Committee on Health, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u117	Mr Minister, I initially addressed my question to Minister None because I thought he was responsible for gambling and combating match fixing, but my question was forwarded to this committee. On 16 December 2016, Minister Geens signed a Memorandum of Understanding and I don't know if you signed it at that time for the establishment of a national platform to combat match fixing, the manipulation of sporting events. The participating partners were the federal government, the three Communities, the federal prosecutor, the federal police, the Gaming Commission, the National Lottery and some important sports federations. The national platform should structure the dialogue between partners and coordinate their initiatives. The aim is to improve the information of all actors so that they are able to choose the most appropriate method to combat match fixing. The platform will thus help the sports sector to take preventive measures, but also look at the legal side and ensure repression. When was the platform effectively established and launched? How many times has the national platform come together? Was every partner present or who was absent? What are the themes that have been covered in the past year? What progress has been made? Have there been consultations with similar national platforms from other countries? After all, that was an agreement in a Council of Europe convention. What issues were discussed and what were the conclusions? What are the objectives and themes to be worked on in 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u118	Mr Vermeulen, the national platform was officially launched on 16 December 2016, the day on which the Memorandum of Understanding was signed. The national platform came together four times, including the day of its creation. The partners who could not be present have apologized for various reasons. Among the partners who have apologized were the KVBV (twice), the Euromillions Basketball League (twice), the Gaming Commission (1 times), the Football Cell of Home Affairs (three times), Paralympics (1 times) and the Flemish Sports Federation (2 times). Meanwhile, the national platform was allowed to welcome a new member, the Belgian Cycling Federation, and steps have been taken to get the athletes' trade union, Sporta, on board as well. This will include a list of themes: drawing up and adopting a rules of procedure, identifying a single point or contact by service and their tasks, monitoring by the Gaming Commission of the matches, offered by the operators authorised in Belgium, developments in A-sport, advice on the regulatory framework of games of chance, code of conduct for the sports federations, monitoring national and international developments, operational approach to match fixing, the operation of the Task Force Signals consultation, agreements on information exchange, sub-platform, preventive actions and education in sport, the Sports fraud hotline, creation of a unique address, monitoring of international competitions, participation in international projects by the Ministries of Sport, the KCOOS, the European project Keep Crime Out of Sport, which will be a good implementation, disciplinary approach versus criminal approach. The national platform is part of the Group of Copenhagen, the European platform set up in line with the Belgian model. The main theme is the exchange of information and the way this information should be exchanged. There are contacts with foreign platforms. There is an agreement within the national platform that each partner maintains international contacts in its specific domain. A account of the relevant themes is given at the next meeting of the Belgian national platform, which is a clear added value for the national platform. The themes for this year will be decided by the members of the national platform in February and March.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic800x.u119	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. New blades cut well. This is a new knife. They've only actually come together four times. Allow me to say that the content and number of meetings are rather thin. It is a multidisciplinary organisation of several participating organisations. There would be a problem: there is no legal framework. It's an ad hoc organization. It is good to start like this, but the fact that there is no legal platform also ensures that people also work ad hoc. I think one can do better.
