ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u1	Madam Secretary, recently you presented your plan to combat burn-out in the press. In November 2018, a pilot project will be launched in the hospital and banking sector for about a thousand workers who are in burn-out or are in the danger zone. These two sectors were selected because scientific research would show that just those workers are at greater risk of early burn-out or being more effectively affected. A maximum of nine months of guidance and care will be provided. You yourself indicated that in addition to guidance, the working environment will also be addressed. Madam Minister, do you have any figures on the number of workers at risk of burning out and/or being effectively affected by it? Do you have any research on the causes of the sharp increase in burnouts and stress-related disorders? To what extent is these structural causes addressed in your action plan? The hospital sector is one of the sectors in the pilot project. The high workload in this sector is mainly due to a shortage of staff. When you were confronted with that finding, you responded as follows, I quote: "If hospitals put more staff in the cafeteria than on the services, that is not my decision." Will you stick to that statement? Do you deny the structural underfunding of the hospitals? A concrete proposal that can respond to the high workload and thus possibly a preventive measure against burn-out is the introduction of the 30-hour working week. What are your views on this proposal, possibly as a pilot project? What are the other parts of your global plan for the prevention and treatment of mental illness?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u2	It's actually a number of pilot projects. Yesterday the kick-off was given with a project call for applications for pilot projects. A task force was set up to combat burn-out and other mental disorders caused by stress and anxiety. The administration of RSVZ, the FOD Public Health, the High Health Council, Fedris and the FOD WASO have been working on the theme as a project group for six months. This body makes it possible to coordinate the various initiatives. Focus groups with people on the ground and experts are currently working on a final analysis to formulate a vision. On that basis, criteria will be established for the launch of the pilot projects by the end of June 2018. The task force focuses on the whole issue of burn-out and aims to develop an integrated prevention policy for employees, civil servants and the self-employed. As far as feasibility is concerned, a thousand people are selected, who can be followed multidisciplinaryly. A method for the selection, monitoring, evaluation and management of pilot projects should be developed. The content of the burn-out website should be adapted on the basis of the prevention plan to be drawn up. Practical guides will be developed for policy makers, employers and the health sector. A precise timetable for the implementation of these different tasks has been established for the period from January 2018 to November 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u3	I come to your second question. The project is an integrated form of prevention. The prevention for which we are responsible, through Fedris, is a secondary and tertiary prevention. It is intended to be complementary to the projects on the basis of the agreement of the social partners, in order not to do any duplication of work. How many people are we talking about? We know that this type of preventive action is not so much aimed at those who have long been burn-out but above all at those who threaten to burn-out or who are in the early stages of a burn-out. The self-employed will also be able to submit projects. How does this initiative relate to the initiatives in the general policy paper? I explained to you the purpose of the task force. In the meantime, we know that there are also initiatives by the social partners. They have been contacted to work complementaryly and not always to catch the same people. The scope has indeed been extended, so it is not limited to burn-out. We finance this ourselves, through Fedris, and are therefore not paid through the social partners' budget. The task force is already at work. You also asked if we would launch a pilot project for the 30-hour week. To be honest, I'm not qualified to do that. You'll have to ask Minister Peeters. You know he's on his way back from Argentina. Especially in the hospital sector, according to the MAHA study of Belfius, there is a reduction in nursing staff per group of patients. In addition, hospitalisations are shorter, turnover is higher and work pressure has increased. Only yesterday, under the chairmanship of Mrs Gerkens, in committee, we discussed a whole afternoon about a different hospital funding, including the low-variable care, which is being worked with a flat rate. These advances have been slightly increased compared to the sum of the wages they used to fall in according to the median. So we are always giving more resources. The Medicomut Committee will have to decide at the end of next month how it will deal with the wages and supplements. In the meantime, at our request, the PACHA study has also been carried out on how a specialist's salary can be obtained, in order to distinguish between the personal share and the share for technical performance. We can work with that. You also asked about the other aspects of the global prevention plan. There's a lot going on. I must also admit that we are only responsible for secondary and tertiary prevention. I must remain within my powers. The reason why it concerns only workers who are at an early stage is because it has been found that such projects can only be brought to a successful conclusion. Otherwise we are talking rather about healing and a different kind of guidance; this is about dealing with the long-term sick. This is a means of giving people who are in danger of becoming ill for a long time the opportunity to signal that they are in danger of getting burned out. In this way they can be received more quickly and be accompanied intensively and multidisciplinaryly for nine months. Measures at the workplace, at the employer's place of work, can be facilitated in a variety of areas. We must not only try to get the long-term sick back to work, but also to prevent those most at risk from getting a burn-out. The figures have shown that these are mainly employees in the banking sector and in the hospital sector. They are the first to be selected for the pilot projects. That's Fedris' M.O. That is how we started pilot projects to tackle low back pain. That was originally planned for nurses only. These pilot projects are now not only structurally financed, but can also be used from other sectors. A complete system of guidance, registration and follow-up was set up so that after the pilot projects we can take the step towards structural support and an extension of the target group, i.e. alongside the banking sector and the hospital sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u4	Madam Minister, I feel that the emphasis is often placed on individual guidance for individuals, on how to deal with burn-out, stress management, self-relaxation, hygiene of life, kinesi therapy and so on, but that perhaps too little emphasis is placed on the structural reasons for a burn-out in these sectors. In the fight against burn-out there are several aspects. As Minister of Health, it would also be important to take action in the areas of certain parameters such as job insecurity, increasing workload, flexibility, longer working hours, lack of autonomy or lack of control over one's own work. There is a lot of scientific literature about this. Action must be taken on all these aspects and not just on individual guidance. That seems to me to be a first important point. A second point concerns the 30-hour week. Minister Peeters always answers me only from an economic point of view and there is an important debate on this. However, I believe that you could make certain suggestions from your point of view. Many studies show that where working time is reduced, the psychological and physical health of workers improves. That makes sense to me, by the way. You could pay attention to this under your authority. I will not go into the debate now, but I will follow this dossier very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u5	Oral question No 24288 by Mrs Valerie Van Peel is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u6	Mr President, this is a somewhat strange question on my part because I am one of those Members who obviously demand that there be sufficient checks on social inspection, respect for labour law, etc., and even that they be strengthened, precisely to avoid the use of mechanisms of circumvention and non-compliance with these rules. And at the same time, my question is about the opposite situation, denounced by many testimonies that have come to me, coming, I must say, from the horeca sector where there are reports of means completely disproportionate to the size and reality of the company, with combis of armed policemen landing in a small restaurant, which has an entrance to the front, another in the back, four people in the kitchen and in the rooms. To say the least, it is traumatic to undergo this type of intervention by ONSS inspectors in such places. Especially when you see that in the case of Veviba, where, while this is a huge company, there are only a few people to control. There is therefore a problem of balance, particularly for craft enterprises. In small structures, control can be done anything else! I wish I had information about that. Is the organisation of controls adapted to the size of the company?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u7	Mrs Gerkens, thank you for your question. First of all, I must point out that since the reform of the inspection services, the Social Security FPS no longer has an inspection service of its own. Since July 1, 2017, the Social Inspectorate has been integrated into the ONSS Inspectorate. I would also like to point out that social inspectors are still obliged to respect the principle of purpose and proportionality. For the past 25 years, these principles have been set out in the first protocol agreement. Later, they were expressly included in articles 18 and 19 of the Social Penal Code. Social inspectors must therefore ensure that the means they use are appropriate and necessary. It is necessary to assess the usefulness and necessity of a measure and whether the means involved do not constitute a disproportionate infringement of the rights and freedoms of the controlled person. This principle is also reflected in the July 2017 inspection charter of the ONSS and more recently in the charter concluded between employers' and self-employed organisations and the social inspection services of 9 March 2018. Care must also always be taken to strike a balance between enforcement measures to allow targeted control and the possible discomfort caused by control within a company. The following are the principles that are applied in accordance with the ONSS Inspection Charter. First, the rule of discretion. Inspectors must act as discreetly as possible. For example, they ensure that customers present experience as little inconvenience as possible as a result of the control. Discretion also implies that the mobilisation of human resources takes into account the nature and importance of the controlled activity, as well as the presumed number of workers employed. This already answers your question about size. As far as time is concerned, workers are, as far as possible, heard one after the other, in order to minimize the normal functioning of the enterprise. It is a matter of effective action. Field monitoring is limited to the essentials and investigative duties that are, at this time, useful and necessary for the collection of evidence. If necessary, police reinforcement may be sought under the Social Penal Code. Was there any discussion of this in this case? My knowledge of the file does not allow me to rule on this. The following issues play a leading role. What was the background? Why were there two police teams already? Had there been any difficulties during a previous check, which is why they asked for police reinforcement? Was there an increased risk of human trafficking? Was it real? Or were other criminal activities suspected? Without knowing the details, it is not easy to establish whether or not the above principles have been respected. For each control action, one wonders whether police assistance is really necessary. As stated in article 22 of the Social Penal Code, this assistance protects social inspectors from acts of violence and enables them to perform their duties. In particular, we have recourse to it in cases of suspected illegal occupation or trafficking in human beings. If a second check is planned in a bakery or pizzeria and, during a previous check, staff members were not in possession of a valid residence permit or work permit, it is also possible to request the assistance of the police, given the risk of escape. The same applies if, during the previous review, social inspectors were subjected to verbal or physical violence. The police, in consultation with the social inspectors, decide on the number of elements deployed. This figure depends on the information available to the police and previous controls. That is what has been communicated to me. I would add that history is a very important piece of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u8	Madam Minister, I thank you for your complete answer in terms of references that require the proportionality of controls and for your explanation of the elements that can justify muscular interventions that, at first glance, may seem disproportionate. The references will make it possible to try to defend oneself in case of increased, excessive or abusive control.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u9	For pregnant women who become ill in the six weeks before their expected date of delivery, the sick days are not considered as incapacity for work but converted into maternity rest. The sick days are thus deducted from the 15 weeks of maternity rest to which women are entitled and which they themselves arrange. The measure applies only to workers in the private sector, because the federal government is investigating whether or not the disease is related to pregnancy in women during the period of their illness. If there is no relationship between the disease and pregnancy, for example when it comes to a common flu, women do not lose maternity rest and keep their fifteen weeks. The regime in the public sector is a good one. Madam Minister, do you see any possibility of adapting the disease regime during the last six weeks of pregnancy in the same way as for federal government staff, namely by not charging sick days as maternity rest if the disease is not related to pregnancy? If so, is it possible to adapt the rules? Can this be done via a KB or should a legislative initiative be taken? I think it is important to harmonise the arrangements for maternity leave. It should not depend on whether one is a civil servant or whether one is working in the private sector to determine whether sick days are kept from maternity rest. If the disease can be associated with pregnancy, the sick days will of course be deducted from maternity rest, as is already the case in the public sector, if it is necessary to rest in order to complete pregnancy properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u10	Mrs Lanjri, I have to say first of all that, while compensation for maternity insurance for employees falls within my competence, the right to maternity rest for the worker is a matter of labour law for which the Minister for Labour, Kris Peeters, is competent. The problem thus includes, in other words, both a labour law component and a social security component. The nine-week mandatory after-birth rest is only an obligation for the physical recovery of the mother of nine weeks after birth and can be extended today by the period during which the worker continued to work from the sixth week to the second week before childbirth. In other words, the last week before childbirth, whether one continues working or not, one is always lost. It is an option that the worker has, in so far as it is medically possible and justified. That is, of course, an important condition. The logic is thus as follows: six weeks before and nine weeks after delivery, but only the nine weeks are mandatory. However, the employee may also choose to continue working longer. That is an exception, which she may ask for longer working hours and thus transfer the saved credit to the post-birth period, but only if it is medically possible. A number of periods shall be treated, for the purpose of prolonging the after-birth rest, as a period during which the beneficiary has continued to work. As regards the application of maternity insurance to employed persons, periods are largely based on the provisions of labour law which lay down periods equivalent to periods of employment for the extension of post-retirement rest. This is reflected in a royal decree of 1991 and the law itself dates back to 1971. The protection of mothers should not only be guaranteed through maternity rest. In this context, obstacles to the participation of women in the labour market are also being examined. For example, the European Commission put forward a proposal on work-life balance for parents and co-parents. There is also the government's decision to increase childcare allowances for single parents. Together with Minister Ducarme, maternity rest for self-employed persons was increased from eight to twelve weeks. Even if the systems for civil servants, private workers and self-employed workers are different, we want to bring the rights of women into these different systems in the long term. The duration of maternity leave after birth was set at nine weeks, mandatory, for the physical recovery of the woman. In the case of the birth of multiples, two weeks are added. You know that other things can be added, including breast-feeding leave. This is therefore a protection measure for the mother and the recovery of the mother is central. The period of maternity rest is actually a period of recovery, one cannot see it as a period of leave. You know that there are other thematic engagements, such as parental leave. They are all in evolution, but there is another important point in this regard. Social security cannot be reimbursed on the same day for maternity rest and sickness or invalidity. It is not possible to retire and then apply for invalidity. One can, however, request assistance, help to third parties. However, the social security safety net only pays once. So one gets a benefit for one or the other, never for the two together. That would be the case with what is being asked here. One asks whether the days of illness can become within six weeks of birth which are also subject to maternity leave...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u11	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u12	That's what I heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u13	No, if civil servants are ill for two weeks prior to delivery, due to a broken wrist or other things that have nothing to do with pregnancy, they will receive a sickness benefit in the current scheme. They will, of course, not receive maternity leave. I'm definitely not asking for double benefits. I am simply asking that other women should be able to link their remaining weeks to the mandatory nine weeks. I am certainly not asking for double funding or double remuneration. That's obvious. I'm just asking for the same arrangement as for the officials.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u14	We have gone to great lengths to ensure that different statutes are aligned, as far as the number of weeks is concerned. We're not quite there yet. There's been an evolution, but I really don't have a mandate to do that right now. There's nothing in the coalition agreement about that. I assume that you will take that point, like me, to the discussions for a subsequent government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u15	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. You said that you are competent for the compensation, but that Minister Peeters must decide on the law. I suggest I put my question to him again. For me, it is important that the systems grow together. It really does not make sense for an official not to take maternity leave for a week, in the event of illness, when workers are not allowed to do so. I therefore hope that he will be open to it and that we will be able to amend the statute, preferably in this legislative period. Perhaps we will not be able to achieve this next month, but hopefully in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u16	Madam Minister, following then malpractice at the Brussels non-profit organisation GIAL, I asked you at the plenary session of 22 February whether you intended to instruct your services to investigate possible social fraud in companies and non-profit organisations linked to the city of Brussels. The non-profit association GIAL, where there may have been false self-employment, was not the first scandal. In your reply, you pointed out that in the previous months studies have already been carried out at various non-profit organisations within the framework of the Grand Cities Plan. In some cities, such as Brussels, there appeared to be an enormous number of such non-profit organisations. You announced that you would have it vetted one by one. I submitted the questions I am now asking in April. Which non-profit organisations have been vetted over the past year, whether or not within the framework of the Grand Cities Plan, in which cities and by which inspection services? Can you tell us the results of that check yet? In how many cases did your services encounter irregularities and what irregularities are involved? In how many cases did the screening give rise to further legal investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u17	Mr Raskin, I cannot give you exactly which non-profit organisations are involved by name, because this is the subject of research. However, I can tell you where and how many checks have been carried out. In 2017, 13 373 studies were carried out at 1 021 non-profit organisations by the RSZ inspection. The figure includes the investigations of the former social inspection of the FPS Social Security Office, which is now integrated into the RSZ inspection. Most of the studies concerned Brussels, 412 studies involving 296 non-profit organisations. In addition, the inspection carried out 71 studies at 56 non-profit organisations in Antwerp, 57 studies at 43 non-profit organisations in Liège, 48 studies at 42 non-profit organisations in Ghent and, finally, 41 studies at 28 non-profit organisations in Charleroi. Irregularities were detected in almost two out of three investigations, with 757 infringements giving rise to a proposal for correction. Most of the infringements were related to social security, for example the failure to submit a declaration, the lack of social documents, holiday allowances and so on. A pro-justitia was drawn up for 86 infringements. These infringements mainly concerned legislation on social documents and part-time work as well as on accidents at work. To a greater extent, there was a lack of supervision. The projustias drawn up may give rise to an administrative fine or to criminal proceedings. However, I do not have the exact figures of the number of cases in which prosecution was actually proposed by the labour inspector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for the figures. You were renovated with me at the time about what happened. You have also made a clear statement. I would like to thank you for the figures, which I will look at in peace and in detail. I will, of course, also follow up with you that a number of vehicles, which serve to undermine solidarity and undermine the basis of social security, can be removed, as you announced at the time in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u19	Madam Minister, you have recently expressed in the press your willingness to financially encourage mutualities to further promote the return to work of people with long-term disabilities through a financial incentive. The word "last" now stands for a few weeks. Let us not be mistaken, the role and purpose of mutual services is already and indeed to help and accompany their affiliates towards the path of healing and return to employment in good conditions, based in particular on the voluntary and human nature of the approach. Through your announcements, you have once again made the idea that the sick are not pushed enough to return to work and you have played, as always, on the image of the sick profiter. Behind this is finally another issue, that of reshaping the allocation key for the administration of mutualities. Currently, more weight is given to the disabled, the elderly, the low-income and the unemployed. They have higher health costs, which generate more administrative burdens. Today, you have decided to reduce the weighting of the disabled, to remove the weighting of the unemployed, widows and widows and, finally, to overweight the pensioners and the beneficiaries of the MAF (maximum to be billed). Madam Minister, with this decision, it is clear that you underestimate the social dimension of the work of mutual societies and we strongly fear that mutual societies will be able to select the right risks in the future, i.e. those members who are going to cost them less in administrative proceedings. They risk making this selection at the expense of their accompanying missions. For what objective reasons did you make this decision? How will this decision affect the administration costs of the various mutualities? Why are you demeaning in this way the social dimension of the work done by mutualities? How can you assure us that, following your decision, certain mutualities will not commit themselves in the future to a risk selection logic, and that the rights of certain affiliates will not be violated?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u20	Mr President, allow me to thank my comrade André Frédéric for waiting for me. I highly appreciate his gesture. Madam Secretary, you intend to reform the funding of the sickness funds. In doing so, you want to install a mechanism that is financially punished, but can also reward patients who are long-term ill, for example, who are being put back to work more and more quickly. You will therefore increase the variable part of the funding of the sickness funds, which depends on the efficiency of the resources deployed. The money you make available for this will be generated, inter alia, by adjusting the criteria on the basis of which the sickness fund is financed per member. For example, long-term sick people will no longer count as 1.5 members but as 1 members. The additional remuneration you grant to the sickness funds will therefore depend on whether enough effort is being made, including with the start of reintegration routes, and on re-evaluations to get more long-term sick to work. You have now allocated EUR 25 million to reward the sickness funds. Simulations show that the CM and the OZ will be rewarded and the Bond Moyson will be punished. Madam Minister, first of all, you want to make the funding of sickness funds fairer, but does that also mean that the total funding budget will be saved? Secondly, is the conversion of long-term sick persons from 1.5 to 1 member used to fund sickness funds to increase the variable part? Thirdly, how large will the share of variable financing, punishment or remuneration be in terms of total funding in the future? Fourthly, what criteria will you also apply to fund the sickness funds? Fifthly, will the sociological variables of the membership stock between the various sickness funds also be taken into account for funding? Sixthly, despite efforts to reintegrate, some Members will be able to resume work faster and better than others. Are you not threatening to discriminate against the health insurance funds with most of the long-term sick who are the most difficult to get back to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u21	Mr Frédéric and Mr Hedebouw, thank you for your questions. There are several aspects to the financing of mutualities. The first concerns the implementation of the July 2017 Council of Ministers Decision on the allocation of administrative costs among insurers. The modest variable part, 25 million – the full cost of 1.53 billion – has been changed without any impact on the total budget. We have paid attention to affiliates who, because of their status, require more care. In the text implementing the decision of the Council of Ministers, other amendments were also included – such as the replacement of unemployment by the maximum to be charged and the preponderance of pensioners – because they had meaning and had been proposed by some insurers. Moreover, they are obliged to integrate each person wishing to join their respective organizations. This was done in order to avoid risk selection. Legislative work to implement the July 2017 notification is under way. The change in the variable part of the administrative costs is the result of the agreement with the insurers. This agreement provides for a gradual increase in the variable part of administrative costs – from 10% to 20% – accompanied by an annual increase of 2.5% between 2019 and 2022. As regards the content of the reintegration pathways and the decisions taken by VI to get their members back to work, they will act within the regulatory framework established for this purpose, with the focus on resume successful work. The social dimension of the VI is not denied, but encouraged. With regard to your eighth and ninth questions, Mr Hedebouw, I would like to refer you to the answer that I will give in response to your question on sanctions in the context of reintegration. It is not true to say that disabled people weigh heavier. The weight of the unemployed has been reduced, but everything is still subject to change. Several simulations have been made. We have avoided big losers and big winners. The fact that the unemployed weighed more heavily in the system of administrative costs is not explicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u22	Mr. Chair, I will try to understand the minister's answer. I'm going to have to look at this because it's not clear to me yet. Minister, you say the total budget remains the same. My fear is that by changing the criteria for funding mutualities, some are disadvantaged compared to others because they provide greater social support to categories of people who are weakened and who are believed – and that is what I am shocked about – to benefit from the system. I am not naive, perhaps a minority of these people benefit from it, but I am convinced that the goal of the human being is not to be paid by mutuals for life. I will continue to be extremely attentive to the ongoing discussions. We will follow this very closely, with the mutuals in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u23	Minister, I find it surprising that you take as a criterion the effectiveness of getting back to work, without first starting from the objective criteria related to membership in a mutual or another. It's like encouraging a mutual to get people back to work, while its goal is first of all to think about the patient's interest. From the moment you put mechanisms in place so that the mutual interest itself is to rework people, you will influence a very important process of independent and objective judgment in this matter. I believe that this will remain an important ideological and practical divergence in the implementation of these various measures. We will follow this file very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u24	Madam Minister, on 1 April, the method of calculating the sickness benefit in the event of progressive work resumed. In the new system, the benefit is no longer reduced as a function of the salary received, but the breach of employment determines the reduction of the disability allowance. If you work for up to 20% of the same job as a full-time worker, you will not be able to reduce your benefit and may accumulate it with the income from the partial return to work. The fact that the level of pay is no longer taken into account, but the breach of employment, for the calculation of the benefit, makes it particularly difficult for people with a lower wage to work at a higher rate to benefit from this new calculation. In some cases, it is even more advantageous for low-wage workers to stay fully at home rather than resume work half-time. This is not in line with an incentive policy to get sick people back to work. In the meantime, a transitional arrangement has been provided for. Those who were already in a partial work resumption before 1 April 2018 until 1 July 2018 enjoy the most favourable calculation method. Those who are already on a course of progressive work resumption will be able to choose whether the new or the old method of calculation will apply to them. It's not very clear what this will be after July 1st. Among other things, on the website of the RIZIV there is talk of a deafening, progressive system. It would be useful to clarify this and explain the transitional arrangements properly. It can be indicated whether those who were already on a course of progressive work resumption will be able to count on the most advantageous method of calculation even after 1 July. So that's not until July 1st, but also after that. How long will these people be able to enjoy the advantageous method of calculation? Have the guidelines been sent to everyone? Do you want to go to the health insurance? From when will anyone on a path of progressive work resume be able to choose to stay in the old path? If one chooses to stay in the old path, I assume that the possible loss will be compensated. It is particularly important to know what is meant by the progressive, debilitating system. At least there must be clarity about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u25	Madam Minister, from 1 April 2018, the government has decided to amend the calculation of the RIZIV surcharges for long-term sick persons who partially resume work as a function of the volume of work and no longer as a function of working income. In concrete terms, long-term sick workers who earn an average wage of EUR 1 500 and resume work at more than one fifth of full-time working will receive less sickness benefit than before. The figures from the external prevention services show that many people are declared medically unfit when applying for reintegration, after which the employer resigns because of medical force majeure. On the other hand, it appears that the worker who is able to resume work part-time in the event of a resumption of work of more than one fifth would be financially disadvantaged by the change in the calculation of the RIZIV bonus. While the supplement was previously calculated on the percentage of labour income discs, the same percentage is now deducted from the benefit when the work volume exceeds 20%, regardless of the level of income. This will improve the highest incomes of this measure, while the average income may lose up to 200 euros monthly benefit. You have already started to slow down by providing a transitional measure for those who already enjoyed the old system before 1 April. However, the people who have become ill for a long time after 1 April are indeed covered by the new system. Madam Minister, how much do you think you can save with this measure in 2018? Secondly, the social partners delivered a unanimous opinion against this measure to the government. Why didn't you take that into account? Thirdly, will the sickness benefit in the event of partial work resumption also be limited in time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u26	Mr Vercamer, thank you for your questions, Mr Hedebouw. Apparently, things aren't quite clear after all. Since 1 April, the sickness fund has no longer taken account of the income acquired but of the number of hours worked. We used to have a disk system and people didn't know in advance how much they were going to make. There were indeed people at the time who were better to stay at home than to resume work. So that was an unemployment trap. At that time, the sickness funds could not predict in any way how high the income would be. We switched to a simplified system, with stairs of 20 %, 40 %, 60 % and 80 %. This has been made administratively very simple in cooperation with the sickness funds. An exemption is provided for, and therefore not a reduction in the benefit, where the work is not more than 20% of the full-time working regime. This means that you get 20% of the income and 100 percent of the benefit. There is a limited reduction in the benefit if the permitted work exceeds one fifth of full-time employment. In that case, the benefit shall be reduced to the part of the breach of employment of the authorised work exceeding one fifth. In other words, if you work 40 %, you get 40 % of your salary and 80 % of your benefit. This is also the case when 60 % is working. Then you get 60% of the wage and 60% of the benefit. In fact, this 20% rule replaces the little transparent system whereby, according to specific income indices, reductions were made in occupational income or disability benefits. We want to remove the uncertainty for those who wish to resume work progressively, and who were often in doubt about the exact amount they would receive under the previous cumulation scheme. The 20% exemption also encourages slight resumptions. You know that the threshold used to be 50 % or 100 % and that nothing was possible between them. We have seen that the threshold of 50% was sometimes too high for people after a long-term illness. Those people could not physically manage to resume their work immediately at 50 %. So there is no saving registered by this system at all. I'll come back to that later. No one was allowed to go backwards. That was said from the beginning. If more people resume, this means that social security will receive more income. In short, it is a win-win situation: more money for people to encourage their resumption and more income for social security. It is also a more flexible system, with stairs of 20% instead of a high threshold of 50%. It is also more spreadable in time. There are some untruths circulating, for example that people with an income of more than EUR 3 500 receive higher benefits, that being sick is sometimes more advantageous than staying at home and that people would get much less. So that's not true at all. The principle is that it is always more advantageous to resume work than to remain sick full-time, albeit progressive and according to the 20% rule. In addition, the simplification of the regulatory framework has strengthened the financial incentive for the sick to resume part-time work. I do not have the latest figures on the number of recognised disabled persons who resume the work with the authorisation of the counsellor, but on the figures from 2013 to 2016. I'll get them to you. Of the 47 502 persons employed on 31 December 2016, 40 779 persons, the majority of them engaged in a paid activity and 2 805 persons engaged in an independent activity. The other cases carried out an unpaid activity or an activity to which the cumulation did not apply. In the past, the benefit was dropped if more than 50% of the work was resumed. It is now possible to resume work at 60 % or 80 % while retaining part of the benefit. So it's a better arrangement. As far as the estimated savings are concerned, there is no saving. We assumed extra costs because of the 20% rule, but there are more social security revenues because people who resume work also pay contributions. Of course, these contributions are not that large, but the estimate is in the order of 17 million. There is therefore no reduction in benefits, quite the contrary. It is an account with pluses and minuses: more benefits, but also more income for social security, because more gradual work is resumed. There is an opinion of the Management Committee of 11 July 2017 on the draft Royal Decree laying down the reform of the cumulation scheme. The representatives of both representative workers' organisations and employers' organisations gave a negative opinion. The employers' organisations gave a negative opinion because they felt that the system was too generous for the entitled parties. The trade unions, of course, still felt it was too little generous. A divided opinion was therefore adopted. We have sought a solution that lies perfectly in the middle. That is how this measure was implemented. There was a transitional arrangement, which initially only applied for three months. After the initial scheduled deadline of 30 June, it will now apply in time without any limitation. The extension of the guarantee measure, for the people who are in it, means more specifically that the benefit to the insured person whose benefit has been calculated on 30 June 2018 under the former cumulation scheme on the basis of the earned professional income will continue to apply, as long as that scheme remains more favourable to him, provided that he does not alter his activity. This means that his activity, which is effectively carried out on the basis of that authorisation, may not be altered even after renewal. As regards the maximum duration of the authorisation, since 1 April, it has been decided that the physician should limit the duration of the authorisation. The maximum authorised duration was set at two years. Prior to that, the statistics were still slightly distorted by patients who had already been allowed to carry on an authorised activity until the retirement date and did so for years without any control. So these people were no longer accompanied. The question was not asked whether these people could do more back. These people were simply left in that system until retirement. The consultant will now carry out a fundamental check every two years, with a view to ensuring a better follow-up of the admission granted and, if possible, a progressive approach to employment. If, after two years, the insured person is not yet in a position to work more than its scheme provides, it is intended that the medical adviser renews this scheme. The Royal Decree of 4 February 2018 amending the Royal Decree of 3 July 1996 implementing the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits coordinated on 14 July 1994, which provides for the reform of the cumulation scheme, expressly provides that two years after the entry into force of the reform, the Minister of Social Affairs will ask the social partners and the insurance institutions to evaluate in practice the effectiveness and effects of this reform. That evaluation shall be carried out no later than six months after that request. So there will certainly be an evaluation. On the basis of this evaluation, the necessary initiatives may then be taken to make, if necessary, certain amendments to the reformed cumulation scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u27	Madam Secretary, one more clarification. You say that those who are in the old system and who were previously allowed to remain uncontrolled until retirement will now be checked by the counsellor every two years. If there is no change in the situation, the scheme will continue. Will the old regime continue to apply? Doesn't there have to be a two-year limit? No. Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I find that you have dealt fairly quickly with the negative judgment of the partners and mutuals, implying that they want more and more. However, the social partners have given very concrete examples of this decrease. On the other hand, employers' lack of accountability on this issue is again being addressed. In my view, however, the latter have an important responsibility in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u29	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the redistribution of wrinkle days. The Flemish healthcare umbrella Zorgnet-lcuro has called for an ambitious career pact in the healthcare sector. The current rules provide that a staff member from 45 years of age is entitled to 12 additional days of leave on top of the normal holiday days................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Zorgnet-lcuro proposal is that staff members can redistribute those additional days throughout their career. In this way, workers can use leave days more flexibly and organise their careers more autonomously. Another advantage is that a lot of pressure is being removed in small health care organisations where older workers are mainly employed, as all the workload in such organisations reaches younger workers. If the holidays can be spread over the whole career, some work pressure can be removed. That method could prove its usefulness. Madam Secretary, what is your opinion on the proposal to redistribute the wrinkle days? Apart from the discussion on a possible increase or reduction in the number, I would ask you to give your opinion on the principle. Have you discussed this with the social partners? How does social dialogue view this? Has there been any consultation? What are the results of that? You may see other possible adjustments to the career in the healthcare sector, so that it becomes more attractive and resilient. Indeed, the latest forecasts by the National Bank refer to a deficit of several tens of thousands of staff in the healthcare sector, so there is work to be done. What adjustments do you consider possible? The new career pact is currently under discussion within the government at the social level. When can we see the very concrete implementation of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u30	At present, my policy cell, together with the social partners, is taking the necessary steps to implement this agreement. The agreement also provided for the setting up of a working group to modernise career policies. Part of this concerns end-of-life measures within the federal health care institutions. The working party has already met a number of times and I understand that progress is being made. I cannot say very much about the slopes that are on the table because this would damage the confidentiality of the negotiations. As far as the career pact is concerned, the agreement explicitly refers to the additional resources for job creation made available within the social Maribel funds. Important additional budgets are provided for, inter alia, through the tax shift. The agreement also includes other measures to improve remuneration, strengthen a second pension pillar in the private sector, workable work measures and improve work-life balance. The latter implies, among other things, the right not to work three consecutive weekends during large-scale leave. It concerns several measures which were not possible before and which would have made holidays difficult. I think it's a good thing we've reached a four-year social agreement. Since it was not yet possible to put all the elements relating to the end-of-life measures on the table, it was chosen to discuss them in working groups. I believe that we will soon be able to reap the benefits of these discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u31	Madam Minister, we will be patient and waiting for the specific answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u32	Madam Minister, the coalition agreement provides for further harmonisation of the statutes of workers and servants in order to complete the unitary statute. I quote from the coalition agreement: 'The further harmonization of the statutes of worker and servant to achieve within a strict time frame and to draw up concrete proposals for this. This should take into account the financial impact on all relevant actors. These include guaranteed wages, annual leave, temporary unemployment and collective labour law." I have already asked Minister for Work Kris Peeters for an update on this. He replied that the harmonization of the arrangements for annual leave will be carried out in cooperation with the Minister for Social Affairs, as the matter falls within your competence. Madam Minister, what implementation has been given to this section? What timing do you have in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u33	Mr Van der Donkt, it's a little complicated. Powers of all kinds are fragmented, and that is also the case here. Minister of Work Kris Peeters is responsible for regulating annual leave for employees. My competence concerns the harmonization of the holiday scheme as regards social security contributions and sickness benefits. If, for example, it is impossible to take a holiday because of illness, the invalidity benefits are not currently paid by the insurance institutions in December, as the sick period is covered by the holiday allowance. Several scenarios are possible to harmonise the scheme for workers and for servants in the area of annual leave. The social partners have always played an important role in the annual holiday for workers, including in the Management Committee of the National Agency for Annual Holidays and in the holiday funds. So we will not propose scenarios ourselves. The agreement is that both my colleague from Work and myself are waiting for the preference of the social partners, which they will tell us, and that we will proceed with that preference.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u34	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your clear answer on the complex issue, although it has not really helped me much. However, I will be patient with you to see what proposal the social partners, with which they appear to be going to land at the end of 2018, will put forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u35	Mr. President, Madam Minister, compensation for people who contracted hepatitis C or HIV by blood transfusion before 1990 is a matter of concern to both of us. We have repeatedly reiterated the moral need to solve this problem. In recent years, various Members of the House have, on several occasions, tabled motions for resolutions. You yourself asked for a study at the KCE. The results of this study, which dates back to the end of 2016, as part of the financial compensation for victims of transfusion accidents, are clear and precise as to the preferred option: to entrust to the Medical Accident Fund (FAM) a specific mission of compensation for victims, separate from its other missions, and to compensate three categories of beneficiaries, through lump sum and degressive amounts according to category (direct victims, secondary victims and children of direct victims). There are 1,243 direct victims and a compensation budget of up to €67 million for the period 2017-2022. The report concludes on the need to draft legislation (draft or proposal). Minister, do you share the view of this October 2016 KCE report? Is it your intention to operate this fund? If so, how? When would it be operational? Can you tell us what further action you intend to take on the findings of this study? Should we introduce a bill or is a bill being drafted?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u36	Mr Piedboeuf, as envisaged in the Government Agreement, I have indeed launched a generic study with the KCE, a study that could provide a comprehensive response to the problem of compensation for transfusion victims of hepatitis virus or HIV. Given the very strict budgetary context, we are faced with choices. As part of our Hepatitis C plan, the priority is currently to make hepatitis C treatment accessible to as many patients as possible. The reimbursement for hepatitis C treatment has been extended to patients at the fibrosis stage and to patients at high risk since January 1, 2017. Starting in 2019, we will expand the reimbursement to all patients diagnosed. You will see in the INAMI figures that the cost predictions are far exceeded. We didn't know the number of patients. It is a good thing that they are now being treated, but it has a cost and I have to make choices. For the time being, I do not have the means to provide a compensation budget. That's an honest answer. I wish I'd given you more hope, but for now, that's the choice we've made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u37	Minister, I can only thank you for saying it honestly. It is true that this is a matter that must go back to the level of government. Even if we see all the efforts that are being made in this area and all that you put in place in relation to prevention and access to such care that are very expensive, it is clear that, morally, none of us can accept this situation. Thank you for your answer. We'll try to get the information back to the government level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u38	Minister, in recent years, the number of workers with disabilities has increased by more than 10% and the number of persons with disabilities by 42%. Today, more than 3% of all workers are absent for more than a year. The measures taken by this Government are not alien to this phenomenon; it seems clear to me. To solve this problem, you do not favour a voluntary and constructive approach to return to work, as advocated by the social partners, but rather a response in terms of sanctions. In this regard, an agreement in principle was said to have been reached within the Government at the Council of Ministers on 18 May. This agreement would provide that workers who do not make sufficient efforts to return to work may lose 5 to 10% of their allowance for one month. On the business side, those who do not provide enough effort to return long-term patients to work would be punished financially by 800 euros. Minister, in order to better understand the ins and outs of this agreement, I have a few questions for you. First of all, you tend to punish those who do not produce enough effort. How do we measure those who make enough effort and those who do not? What are the criteria for making this distinction? Is not your measure a challenge to the medical act itself that recognizes an individual as being ill? You confirm a penalty corresponding to a reduction of benefits from 5% to 10% for one month for workers. Is there a gradation logic? What happens after the month in question? What is planned for the sanctioned patients who will be amputated by this amount and who are at risk of falling into poverty? With regard to employers who may also be fined, could you explain how this penalty will be applied? Which companies are involved? Are companies excluded from the system? And, more generally, have you quantified the economy that could result from this measure? Can you detail the calculation of this economy? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u39	Madam Minister, on a proposal from your colleague Mr Peeters, the government has reached an agreement on sanctions for long-term ills and businesses in case they do not participate in the reintegration routes. Employee and employer would both be held responsible for the return of long-term sick to the workplace. The agreement must be the final part of your approach to long-term sick people. My questions date from the beginning of May 2018. In the meantime, more details are already known about the agreement reached. Heavy penalties are laid down for workers. Failure to comply with administrative formalities results in a penalty of 5% of the benefit for one month. Failure to show up for an interview with the counseling physician means a penalty of 10% of the benefit. On the other hand, I believe that the sanctions for employers are far more lenient. There is nothing left of the initial idea that the employer should pay two months of guaranteed wages. The proposal to have the employer pay 10% of the benefit for six months was also swept off the job. Ultimately, a symbolic fine of EUR 800 remained for employers who did not make sufficient efforts. In addition, a long, heavy procedure has been developed to ensure that the fine will hardly be applied. Moreover, it is sufficient that the employer motivates sufficiently why no adapted work can be offered in order to escape the fine. Madam Secretary, do you confirm, first of all, the modalities of sanctions? Secondly, the sanctions imposed on employers were greatly weakened. What were the arguments behind that decision? The employers' organisation VBO stated that "your employers cannot punish for something they do not have in their power." Do you agree to that thesis of the VBO? Thirdly, however, the wave of protests by trade unions and sickness funds, among others, did not give you any other idea of sanctions for workers. What were the arguments? What is your response to the protest by the trade unions and the sickness funds? Unlike employers, do you believe that the workers themselves are responsible for their long-term illness? Fourthly, scientific studies show that the increase in the number of long-term sick is mainly due to longer working hours and increasing workload and flexibility. How does the imposition of sanctions on workers respond to these structural causes? Fifthly, are you prepared to respond to the demands and criticisms made by the trade unions and sickness funds and to adjust your policies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u40	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, my colleagues have just recalled the context and the first reading of this draft bill of May 18. At the cross-cutting level, I have always argued in this area for the reintegration of long-term patients on the sole condition that it takes place on a voluntary basis and with a dynamic of trust between the worker, the employer and the doctor-counsel. They are vulnerable people. Your approach of pointing at them as if they were all sick "bidons" does not match my vision. I even think that your choice of sanctioning rather than presenting positive incentives will have a deleterious effect and a significant ineffectiveness. While recently some members of the government had reaffirmed their position on the voluntary nature of the measure and the non-use of sanctions, while an assessment of reintegration routes is under way at the level of the National Labour Council, can you tell us why you are planning these sanctions without waiting for the results of the assessment? In this context, you have publicly positioned yourself in the media saying that these reintegration routes, in their current formulae, were working well and that there were positive results. How do you explain your shift to a sanctions regime without waiting for your positive assessment? What case analysis do you use to establish the need for accountability of employers and workers through sanctions? What are the objective elements of the file? Can you provide figures in this regard since the introduction of reintegration plans? I have read in the press your figures, which are very positive. I imagine there are negative figures that suddenly justify the 180-degree turn of government. Do you confirm that a financial penalty of 5% of the compensation for one month is provided for the beneficiary who does not fulfil his administrative obligations? How can any justification for these shortcomings be provided by the beneficiary, and within what time frame? According to what criteria of assessment? Is it correct that a 10% penalty will be imposed on the recipient who is not actively involved in the reintegration process? Can you clarify what is meant by a lack of active participation? Will the recipient be able to justify themselves? Will his state of health be taken into consideration? How? By whom? How long and according to what criteria? Are these 5% and 10% penalties in addition to the difficult financial conditions of the sick? Indeed, the allowance for incapacity to work does not correspond to 100% of the gross wage but to 60% of that wage, which is a penalty – if I may say so – in relation to the usual income. Should we therefore consider that, with the penalty of 60 per cent of gross wages, you add this additional penalty of 5 per cent and 10 per cent? Where the prevention-physician counsellor considers that another job or suitable work is possible, if an employer does not draw up a reintegration plan or a reasoned report explaining why reintegration is not possible within the time limits, will he actually have to pay a special compensation contribution to compensate for the extra cost of social security? Can you elaborate on the basis on which the said additional cost will be assessed and how this contribution will be quantified? Is this a penalty solely related to the timely introduction of documents? You are also planning an administrative contribution of 800 euros against the employer who has not made the necessary efforts to ensure that the employee can keep his or her job within the company, or to promote his or her reintegration. What criteria will make it possible to appreciate what you call these "necessary efforts"? Is this a purely lump-sum penalty for the employer and, if so, why is it a lump-sum penalty? Will it possibly be multiplied if the case arises for several workers in the same situation? You're talking about the high cost of long-term patients. That is true, but have you calculated the expected economy following the application of these sanctions in relation to the current regime? Finally, what is the average length of reintegration journeys that have taken place to date? I hope you will give just as precise answers to these specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, demographic factors such as the growth and ageing of the working-age population can partly explain this increase. A larger share of older people in the labour market is a good thing, but it also leads to an increase in the number of long-term patients among this group of workers, a group which in itself is already more important, given the ageing of the population. I am convinced that long-term patients wish above all to heal and return to working life. The aim of social security cannot be to push people into dependency, but to enable them to be self-sufficient again. To do so, I am pursuing a broad policy that consists essentially of taking positive steps. Thus, the focus is on prevention. I refer here to the efforts made in the framework of pilot projects on burn out. Psychosocial diseases are responsible for the increase in the number of long-term patients in the population. As a result of this prevention, employers can rely on better support and support to avoid this type of disease as much as possible. In addition, a new impetus is being given by the reintegration of long-term patients. At the end of 2016, reintegration routes were introduced. As part of these journeys, the employee, the employer, the occupational doctor, the attending physician and the mutual practitioner shall check, on the basis of a multidisciplinary approach, whether the entitled person is able to resume his or her initial function, possibly with a few minor adaptations. If this is not possible, it is checked whether the employee can perform other duties, whether full-time or not, with his or her employer. These journeys are followed and the improvement points are listed. By the end of 2018, their effects will have to be meticulously recorded. Resuming part-time work also becomes easier and more advantageous. Since this year, people with disabilities have been able to return to work thanks to a new, more advantageous system. In particular, this system provides that a worker who receives 20% of a normal full-time work schedule will never have his or her allowance reduced. Entitlements may already return to work. As soon as they have sent their application, they continue to benefit from their incapacity for work status. At the same time, a follow-up of doctors' prescribing habits is ensured, so that we can check which doctor too quickly writes certificates of long-term incapacity for work. In your question, you refer to the measure of the accountability system, both workers and employers. The aim is that employers who do not make sufficient efforts to reintegrate, and this without justification, will be punished. The terms "not enough effort" are interpreted in this context by the SPF inspectors Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. To this end, the Code of Welfare at Work is amended. This is a skill of my colleague Mr Peeters. On the other hand, the reintegration route is monitored, and the payment of a special social security compensation contribution may be imposed on the employer. The employer may not be subject to both the penalty and the payment of the compensation contribution for the same worker. The amount of 800 euros is to be understood as an employee. A worker who clearly refuses to cooperate is also at risk of punishment. The amount of the allowance will be reduced from 5 to 10 per cent for one month. If the beneficiary refuses to complete the questionnaire sent to him by the mutual fund, his allowance will be reduced by 5%. If a person knowingly fails to respond to a request from the medical consultant to discuss a possible reinstatement, his or her allowance will be reduced by 10%. The cases of force majeure will of course be accepted. An exception is provided for SMEs with fewer than fifty staff members. Sick people who are no longer able to return to work and their employers are of course spared. I fully understand that it is not possible for all employers to find suitable work. As far as the calculation of what this brings is concerned, I cannot give you any details. As with most existing sanctions, the aim is to apply them as little as possible. Indeed, through this measure, we hope to empower all the main players in the reintegration journey and give the signal that we wish to stop the dramatic increase in the number of long-term patients, which will result in a reduction in expenditure on allowances and, therefore, in long-term savings for social security. There is no figure in the budget for any year. We can only see that with regard to the spectacular increase per year in the number of long-term sick people, the curve which was 8% to 10% over the ten years, now stands at 4% to 5%. As a result, fewer benefits are to be granted and there are again more income from people who resume their work through social security. At no time was there any saving in itself attached to this. The routes were long in progress before a balance was struck on sanctions. Mr Spoorten has asked for this on several occasions. A balance was sought between prescribers, control and employers and employees. I have always considered this to be a three-pillar case on which responsibility must be built. It is true that this must be feasible and that there must be an exchange of information through the administration. There has to be a stick behind the door, that's right. The government has fully implemented what was then decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u42	Thank you, Minister. Some reactions. First of all, you confirm that if the numbers increase, it is because older workers are being pushed to stay longer in the labour market, regardless of their level of health. This is in line with the debates we have on the subject of pension and your colleague's reforms. Having said that, I am somewhat hungry about the answers to the more specific questions I have asked you, particularly the question of how to measure efforts, whether they are sufficient or not. If I understand correctly, this element remains totally subjective and linked to the inspector's assessment. I assume that if this measure comes into force, case law will be implemented but will be entirely dependent on the legislator. On the other hand, if I have heard correctly, an exception will be made for SMEs with fewer than 50 workers. The exception would be for both the SME and its workers. There will therefore be two-tier workers: long-term sick workers, who will not be punished because they will be in a company with less than 50 workers and others who will be punished because the company has 51 workers. This seems to me fragile from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u43	Minister, you started your answer by pretending to be convinced of the willingness expressed by the sick to reintegrate. Why then impose sanctions on them? This proves that you feel a need to put pressure on them and hit where it hurts. I would remind you that these people are already victims of a wage reduction. Then you did not answer my question as to why then limit yourself to 800 euros? This included a penalty in the form of a two-month suspension of guaranteed income. In the Netherlands, we're talking about two years. Your decision is double standards. You yourself acknowledged that there was a problem on the part of employers with regard to their responsibility to find a suitable job for the workers concerned. A penalty of 800 euros does not represent anything at all for a large company. For all these reasons, we will follow this file very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u44	Minister, your answer has not brought me much information. However, I note that this will lead to a great nebula, both about the lack of active participation on the part of the worker and about the employer who would not have made the necessary efforts. Interpretations will obviously vary depending on the person who will verify compliance with the law. Your answer shows us that no criteria have been adopted. I note, in any case, that many are investing in the professional reintegration of the sick. There was a unanimous view that as much as it would have been relevant to have positive incentives, so much so that a system based on sanctions could have a negative effect. There may be two consequences. First, if it is impossible to find suitable work, your device will lead to pure and hard layoffs. This will cost social security at least as much – if not more. Secondly, you are going to curb the possibilities of engaging people with a heavy pathological pathology or with disabilities. Indeed, it is clear that companies, fearing that they will be punished in the event of relapse or integration problems, will not take the risk of engaging them. Again, it will be disastrous not only for the people concerned, but also, ultimately, for the societal issues related to the reintegration of long-term patients. As far as I'm concerned, you really make a bad choice and it's inexplicable! And that, you did not justify it in any way after always saying that the current system was positive, that it worked well, and even though an evaluation is still under way at the NTC. We have no feedback on these assessments and you have already decided to implement a brutal and harsh policy, a stick policy. I therefore think that it will be ineffective, and this also reflects your government's position. I regret this, first and foremost, for the sick concerned, as well as for the companies working in connection with their employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u45	Mr President, Minister, here I am again with this question. In April 2014, your predecessor concluded an agreement with Turkey on social security. It replaces the old 1966 Convention, which increased the period of validity of the BT8 document from 45 to 90 days. This document is necessary for Belgian nationals to have access in Turkey to health care for urgent care. In practice, however, this has not so far been the case. A lot of people planning their summer vacation stay in the dark. On 12 November 2015, the bill No. 1305/002 adopted in plenary. It concerned the assent of the Chamber to the Agreement on social security between Belgium and Turkey. The Belgian federated entities must also agree to the agreement. In reply to my written question No. 1032 of 11 July 2016 indicated that the Flemish Parliament had already approved the agreement on 21 June 2016. In reply to my oral question No. 19137 you stated that it was only awaiting the approval of the Walloon Region. Madam Secretary, I have three questions. In the meantime, was the agreement signed by the Walloon Region? If not, have you consulted with the relevant departments and services in the Walloon Region? When can Belgians who go on holiday in Turkey benefit under this agreement from increasing the period of time for urgent care from 45 to 90 days?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u46	We're moving forward. On 23 May 2018, the Walloon Parliament approved the Agreement. All the entities concerned have therefore now approved the new social security agreement with Turkey. The Walloon Region has yet to formally inform the Foreign Office of its approval. Subsequently, the Foreign Office can take the necessary formal steps to inform Turkey that the agreement has been ratified by Belgium and then the instruments of ratification can be exchanged. As far as I know, the Walloon Region has not yet provided the information to the FPS Foreign Affairs Office. The agreement will enter into force on the first day of the third month following formal notification. I do not know when this will be because I will not be when the formal notification will take place, but I hope as soon as possible. For the compatriots who want to go to Turkey in the coming weeks, the old treaty still applies. The stay is limited to 45 days. This will be 90 days after entry into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It's progressing a little bit. I will report this to the Foreign Minister. I think you should also ask your colleague, Mr Reynders, to follow this up so that this treaty can enter into force as soon as possible. I find it unlikely that this will take more than two years. The approval in the Flemish Parliament took place on 16 June 2016. This can't be happening. This has to be better. I will also inform Members of the Walloon Parliament and the Walloon Government. Madam Secretary, I am counting on you to follow this up with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u48	Madam Secretary, this is not the first time I have questioned you on this subject. Allow me to begin my question without giving full history. Hospitals that are merged with an OCMW hospital will receive even higher pension accounts for their permanent staff in the coming years, especially since it was agreed in Flanders to proceed to a generalised contractual employment rather than to recruit staff legally. With the entry into force of the Daerden Act of 24 October 2011 on the financing of pensions for local civil servants' pensions, employers are already obliged to pay a response contribution today, as the statutory pension mass exceeds the basic contributions due. Meanwhile, there has also been a thesauri deficit in the consolidated pension fund. The recently adopted legislation on the mixed pension, with measures for local pension financing, has adjusted the frequency of payments for the response contribution, so that there is a need to catch up in this respect. As a result, employers receive a double invoice, the normal invoice, which is weighted by the catch-up movement. Today, media attention was paid to this issue. The amount could amount to around EUR 750 million. The problem remains. We have also received an estimate of these rising invoices and costs are rising exponentially in the coming years. This is contrary to the policy of neutralizing the increases in contributions agreed in the government agreement for hospitals affiliated to the Consolidated Pension Fund of the RSZ, in order to offset the pension costs of the statutory staff. You have already made efforts to this end, such as the funds in the Budget Financial Resources and the new budget line from the tax shift, but they will not be sufficient to support the exponential increase in invoices, let alone to compensate them. For the hospitals, the bill is going to be too heavy. A solution is therefore necessary. As part of his reform, Minister Bacquelaine is going to give a discount to those who set up a supplementary pension, in addition to the statutory pension. However, the fact that there are no contractual arrangements in these hospitals and that there is even a deafening system in those hospitals means that there is no discount. He says this isn't his problem and that we need to appeal to Minister De Block to settle this. So I have a few questions about this after all. Madam Minister, I am sure you know that, according to these updated estimates, pension payments to statutory staff can no longer be guaranteed in the long term. What structural measures will you propose within the Budget Financial Resources to remedy this situation? After all, there is an agreement in the coalition agreement to neutralize this. By what time can we propose and expect action on this matter? We need realistic financial planning within these hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u49	Mr Vercamer, we were indeed involved in the problem from the very beginning under the late Minister Daerden. He did have a solution, but it was not sustainable, so we are still dragging along the difficult issue of local pensions. This has already happened with the implementation of the coalition agreement. A 5% disc of the tax shift was specifically allocated to public institutions formerly affiliated to the RSZPPO and also to merger hospitals consisting of one or more institutions previously affiliated to the RSZPPO. The sum was allocated to the BFM for hospitals, as an additional intervention in the amount of the contribution due. It is structuralally about EUR 25 million, some of which will be invested this year and next year. I have asked my administration to study different reflections on additional funding, taking into account the allocation of additional tax-shift budget discs for 2019 and 2020. At present we have the updated percentages of statutory staff who are still employed in the various hospitals. There are considerable differences in this respect. Furthermore, attention will also be paid to the problem of hospitals which are not members of the consolidated pension fund of the former RSZPPO, but which have built their own first pillar. Account should also be taken of the impact of the amendment made to the applicable legislation in cooperation with the Minister of Pensions. Hospitals may receive a discount on the response bill if they provide for an additional pension for their staff with a coverage of at least 3% of the wage mass. Of course, there is also the mixed pension. The government decided to provide a similar system for hospitals that do have to pay a response bill but that sensu stricto does not belong to the public sector. These are often public-private merger hospitals with a private legal form. In the meantime, the government has approved an annual transfer of EUR 121 million from the overall management of the employees to the consolidated pension fund to cover the rising pension costs of local authorities. The amount of 121 million corresponds to the share of pensions in wage moderation contributions paid by local authorities to global management. Global management is compensated for this from the general resources. The KB with which this transfer was arranged for 2018 - 2020 has already been published in the Belgian Official Journal. Thanks to this scheme, the rate payable for pension contributions by local authorities is reduced. In addition, the regularisation contribution was abolished and the treasury management improved. Finally, the social agreement of 25 October 2017 provided for a strengthening of the second pension pillar. A coverage rate of 0.6% of the wage mass will be sought. You will argue that you need even higher amounts, even after 2020. I am convinced, together with you, that there are still important challenges ahead in the coming years. But I am also convinced that these challenges should not be addressed solely through the BFM. Structural measures to ensure the affordability of these and other pensions remain necessary, but I would like to highlight the measures already taken in this legislative period.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u50	You have given a good overview, Madam Minister, but there are also very specific problems. You quoted Mr Bacquelaine's discount for the contractual staff, but there are also legal vehicles only for statutory staff, who are deaf and do not benefit from any measure. There, the response contribution increases the most. That bill is rising the most. There are no contractual staff in those vehicles. The agreement is that there will never be any contractual staff, because they want to extinguish these vehicles. My question is to provide additional resources for this, because these legal vehicles have just been created to allow for a non-profit-making structure and to move to generalised contractual employment, which will create unaffordable invoices. I continue to urge that, through the BFM, the tax shift and for my part, other measures be neutralized for the hospitals that are facing the problem, because it will be an unsustainable situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u51	Madam Secretary, insurers would increasingly refuse the recognition of accidents at work. At least that's what we're hearing from the press. It is striking that one insurer systematically refuses more recognitions and therefore compensations than the other. The Sectoral Federation of Assuralia has no explanation for this either. They speak of the composition of the customer portfolio and a possible different commercial approach from the insurers but they don't really have a good view of it. Minister Peeters noted that there are three insurers who really have a higher refusal rate than average. It is then four to five times the percentage of other companies. So that's really striking. Madam Minister, if there is no explanation for this and the differences are so great, then I think we should look at this more closely. A worker cannot be dependent on his employer's choice for a particular company when he concludes a policy on accidents at work for the purposes of recognising or not recognising his accident at work. I would therefore ask you to have an audit carried out by Fedris to identify the criteria used by different companies to determine whether or not an accident at work is recognised. This will enable us to clarify the situation for the victims of an accident at work after the analysis. It is possible that there are good reasons for these differences, but we should at least be able to map them. Are you prepared to have such an audit carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u52	Mr Klaps, Article 58, § 1, 9° of the Law on Accidents at Work provides that the control of the rejected cases is one of the orders of Fedris. In order to carry out that task and on the basis of the commitments provided for in the Administrative Agreement, the Audit Board shall submit annual reports to the Management Committee. Those reports shall contain statistical information and reports on the activities of the Control Directorate, both for the private sector and for the public sector. The statistical data are, of course, analysed in view of the number of refusals, considered globally and per insurance undertaking, and refusal codes, the grounds on which the refusals are made. In 2013, Fedris's means of action were expanded. In the event of a dispute between the insurance undertaking and Fedris concerning the charge of the accident at work and the continued refusal of the insurance undertaking to take charge of the case, Fedris may bring the dispute before the competent jurisdiction. In 2016, a thematic audit was carried out by the Court of Auditors on the control of the denied accidents. The recommendations were, of course, examined and followed, if possible. Among other things, in this context, the government has decided to allocate an additional budget for the recruitment of additional staff from 2016. Those funds were allocated to the Dismissed Cases of the Inspection Service of the Control Department of the insurance companies of Fedris. You will be able to see that the monitoring of denied accidents, constantly with a view to ensuring equal treatment for victims, is an essential task for Fedris. I would like to make every effort to ensure that, as far as possible, sufficient resources are allocated to enable the audit mission to be carried out more and more thoroughly, not only in terms of quantity but also in terms of the quality of the analyses. I honestly think it's too early for a new audit. The Court of Auditors carried out a more than thorough audit in 2016. We have provided the necessary resources for this, and we have implemented the measures in the agreements. We do have to keep knocking on that nail. I myself received a letter concerning a young woman who had been refused the accident at work. Fedris brought the case and intervened a few times, because so does Fedris. Fedris wanted to go to court, but that young woman refused because it was a colleague who caused the accident. So one would waive one's right. There's still work to be done there. I think this is an important matter. There's insurance. It is a good thing to take out the fraudulent cases, but we must not make too many refusals on behalf of those who rightly claim them. Again, I think it's too early for a new audit. The previous one took place in 2016 and it is now 2018. However, I do not rule out the possibility of another audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u53	Madam Minister, the question had already been answered by allocating the funds, for which I am grateful. After all, we must follow this closely. Not everyone who gets an accident at work is empowered and courageous enough to take action against the insurance company in or if necessary against the employer. It should not depend on that; it is therefore really necessary for Fedris to be able to find out whether there is a particular system among the different companies in order to recognise certain types of accidents more easily or more difficult. If new procedures are indeed in place, we must give them some time. However, it is absolutely important that we continue to monitor this. I will come back to this later, to ask for more recent figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u54	Mr. President, Minister, the government has undertaken many economic measures to boost growth and employment in our country. Among these, the reduction of employers' contributions due to social security during the first staff appointments. Thus, for the first employed worker, the employer benefits from the reduction of employers' contributions for an indefinite period. This reduction continues for the second to the sixth worker under certain conditions and for a fixed period in number of quarters. This tax advantage is one of the most advantageous measures for our SMEs which can thus start more easily and become established in the more sustainable market. Minister, what is your assessment of this measure specifically? How many SMEs have benefited? For how many employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u55	Mrs Galant, every quarter, the National Social Security Office gives me updated figures on the use of the target group reduction "first commitments". As regards the number of employers, in the years 2016 and 2017 for the first (+1) to the sixth (+6) new workers, the measure benefited 31,167 employers, broken down as follows: - for +1, 15 000; - for +2, about 10 000; - and this decreases to 5,800. The number of employees is as follows: - 22,900 full-time equivalents for +1; - 11,012 full-time equivalents for the+2; - 7,544 full-time equivalents for +3; - 6,424 full-time equivalents for +4; - 5,344 full-time equivalents for +5; - 4,074 full-time equivalents for +6. Many jobs have been created. That's a good thing. Even if for the first worker there is no social contribution and for the next five, these contributions are reduced for some time, it nevertheless generates income for social security. I'll give you the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u56	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u57	Minister, a lot of questions have already been asked about the new disability regime, about the requirement to demonstrate a willingness to work for workers with incapacity for work, with penalties for their announced compensation in case of refusal to be willing to reintegrate into the workplace. At the same time, I have been arrested by people with long-term disabling diseases, such as multiple sclerosis. Some are even degenerative and worsen over the years. These people, however, want to remain active and try to resume activities related to their training and skills. However, according to the information that we have had access to, from October 2018 onwards, a disabled worker who develops an activity as a supplementary self-employed person will be punished by 10% of his monthly allowance, regardless of the performance of this activity, for three years. The allowance will then be abolished if the income from self-employment exceeds the allowable income limit by 15 per cent. If the income from the activity exceeds 15%, then the amount of the disability allowance will be reduced by the same percentage. The amount of this ceiling is unknown. So how can we get back to work and engage in complementary self-employment in these conditions of immediate income reduction and in the uncertainty of what will happen in the following years? I wonder where logic is and where coherence is. I wanted to illustrate this data by an example, so that I could identify with you where it hurts and what we could do. A person with a genetic disease that causes an increasingly severe motor disability, who has been disabled for several years, is no longer operational in the sense that an employer intends to do so. It is therefore impossible for him to be hired by an employer. An opportunity arises to work at his own pace from home and under the status of self-employed. She therefore decides to seize this opportunity, from a long-term patient to a re-entry into work. In making the calculations, she thinks it is playable, even if the status of self-employed includes compulsory expenditure. Social contributions are estimated at at least EUR 150 per month. An income of €4,000 per year is expected. Unfortunately, since 1 April, the rules allowing for the cumulation of an activity with professional income and the disability allowance require that, as of October 2018, any additional activity, even if it does not earn anything, will result in a 10% reduction in the monthly disability allowance. Let us take the case of a person who receives a disability allowance and who takes on the status of a supplementary self-employed person. If she receives a disability allowance of EUR 1,500 and her supplementary self-employed activity does not ultimately generate income, she risks being on almost EUR 300 less for three years as she will have to pay 150 euros of compulsory legal fees linked to the status of self-employed. In addition, his disability income will be penalized by 10 per cent. These measures are considered discouraging. Several people who tried this process arrested him, preferring to remain in disability status. If we continue the process, starting in the 4th year of supplementary self-employment, then there will be suppression if the income rises above 15% or proportional decrease. These people are unaware of the ceiling and on the INAMI website, this information cannot be found. The search for information is difficult and those provided by mutualities are no longer very clear. It is up to us that there is also a difficulty in the transmission of information between INAMI and mutuals. Minister, I'm asking you about the device. What really changed in this device? Are the information I have cited correct in view of the situation of the people I have mentioned? Why penalise disabled workers who wish to take on the status of supplementary self-employed? Do these inconsistencies between re-integration provisions and income penalties make sense to you? My search for information in this regard has been unsuccessful. If the arrangements have really been made since 1 April, the six months lead to October. On that date, the persons concerned will see the reduction of their compensation, regardless of the amount of their supplementary income. Is that it? Or, if a disabled person is going to start a supplementary activity, is he entitled to six months of activity, regardless of the starting date, with his complete disability maintained? And the penalty, i.e. the 10% reduction in his disability allowance, comes 6 months later? Much information is not clear and the situation is worrying if the aim is to encourage the resumption of complementary self-employment for these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u58	Ms.Gerkens, the situation you are reporting is unrelated to the bills that were approved on May 18, 2018. These projects relate to the accountability of those entitled, who do not cooperate in their reintegration journey, while the doctor has previously found that this route is possible, and who clearly do not fulfil their obligation. If such a situation is found, the allowance shall be reduced from 5 % to 10 % depending on the infringement. The situation you are quoting concerns the social insured person, who was employed when he was recognised as incapacitated for work and who, when his state of health allows him, can undertake a resumption of activity as a self-employed person, subject to the authorization of the doctor-counsel of his mutuality. Since 1 April 2018, the same system has been applied as for self-employed persons who are ill and who, after a certain period of time, can resume the same activity or an activity authorised with the agreement of the doctor, the rules for the return to work of self-employed status being the same for the self-employed and for the salaried worker who is recognised as incapacitated from work. During the first six months covered by this authorization to take up an activity as a self-employed person, the social insured person shall maintain the benefit of his or her allowances for complete incapacity for work. In other words, during this six-month specified period, compensation will not be reduced as a result of this recovery, regardless of the actual amount of professional income earned as a result of this recovery. From the first day of the seventh month, the period covered by this authorization, until 31 December of the last (third) year following the year in which the activity in question commenced, the incapacity for work allowance shall then be reduced by 10% on a flat-rate basis. During this period covering more than three years, the flat-rate reduction of 10 % therefore does not take into account the actual amount of professional income received in connection with the pursuit of this activity as a self-employed person. In this case, nothing has changed; the situation already existed. The actual amount of professional income obtained in connection with the exercise of the authorised activity shall be taken into account only from 1 January of the fourth calendar year following the year in which the activity commenced. For example, a social insured person has been authorized to resume self-employment from 1 April 2018 until 30 September inclusive (i.e. 6 months), the social insured person will receive his full benefits. From 1 October, the first day of the fourth month until 31 December 2021, i.e. for three years, the amount of his allowances will decrease by 10 per cent, regardless of the actual amount of professional income received. From January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022 inclusive, the amount of his allowances will depend on the income that the authorized work provided in 2019. This is a calculation to be made. From January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023 inclusive, the amount of his allowances will depend on the income that the authorized work provided in 2020. From 1 January of this fourth year, the professional income received during the reference period will be compared to a revenue ceiling of €18,562.28 for professional income acquired in 2018, taking into account fluctuations due to the health index. This comparison of the professional income acquired during the reference period with the income ceiling leads to three possible situations. First case: the occupational income does not exceed the ceiling. In this situation, the social insured person shall maintain his or her full allowances and the amount of such allowances shall not be reduced. In the second case, the earned professional income exceeds the ceiling, but by less than 15%. The amount of the allowances shall then be reduced throughout the calendar year, up to a percentage corresponding to the percentage exceeding the ceiling. Before that, it was all against 15% today. The third situation is that earned income exceeds the ceiling of at least 15%. The award of compensation is then suspended throughout the calendar year, as before for any excesses. It is an advantageous scheme for those concerned, which is thus encouraged to resume an activity. In the past, each activity as a supplementary self-employed person was reduced by a tranche system. In that system, account should be taken of taxable net income from self-employment after deduction of tax-deductible professional expenses and this amount should be multiplied by 100 and divided by 80. As soon as the income from this self-employment was determined, the standard cumulation rule applied to income brackets: first income tranche: €16,000 - 0%; second income tranche: €9,000 - 20%; etc. The amounts are fixed by instalment to reach up to 75%. I'll send this to you in writing. A person whose daily income exceeds the effective daily threshold of €16.24 is therefore reduced by 20% for surplus from €25.98 (50%). As regards the information on the new provisions, they are included on the INAMI website under the heading "Resuming work adapted to your state of health during incapacity for work". It would seem that this is clearly explained. In the case of self-employment, someone also takes care of their social secretariat, from which all useful information can be drawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, which reproduces and reframes the information I had and which was therefore correct. If I made the link with the worker's penalty system, which does not show that he or she wants to work, I would highlight the fact that in the other case, a person, who is disabled, suffers from a progressive illness and nevertheless wants to return to work, may be faced with difficulties and risks of income reduction as a result of his or her activity. Access to information is really not enough. I went to the INAMI website but I also asked others to do so because I'm not the best person to find the right information at the right time. The question is dated 20 May. When I visited the site at that time, this information was not included. The amount of the ceiling was not there either, when searching for the keyword "independent", for example. Perhaps it is necessary to ensure that information is available in the "independent" and "employee" categories. Regarding mutuals, I saw annexes explaining to the person what was happening, etc. Interventions are not sufficiently explained. I suppose that is also the case at the level of social contributions funds. It is therefore the net income that is taken into account, but when you earn small income, there will be a decrease after the first six months, that for three years there will be a systematic decrease of 10%, regardless of the income of the activity, and if the income of this activity is low, the contributions payable, etc., will cause that person to end up with a decrease in income during periods when his activity will not be sufficiently profitable. Anyway, I think there's a calculation to do. The purpose of my motion is simply to ask you to ensure that, together with the various actors and partners, the quality and methods of information are improved so that those who wish to resume their activity in this way really have all of this in hand. I also ask you to ensure that a disabled worker who dares to engage in a self-employed activity who is a beginner has a net income greater than the minimum amount of his or her disability allowance. I'm going to go back to your data myself and recalculate. Maybe that's already the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u60	We keep asking the administration to adapt its website, as several users complain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u61	You're reporting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u62	Yes, that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u63	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, asks the government - to improve the quality and methods of information for workers with disabilities who wish to resume an activity as a supplementary self-employed person; - to ensure that a worker with a disability who dares and has the capacity and courage to develop a supplementary activity has a net income higher than the amount of his invalidity benefit, at least up to the minimum social contributions and legal obligations of any independent person." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government - to improve the quality of information and information for disabled workers wishing to set up an activity as self-employed persons in an auxiliary occupation; - to ensure that the disabled worker who has the courage and ability to set up an activity as an employed person has a net income of which the amount is higher than that of his invalidity allowance, at least up to the minimum amount of social security contributions and the other amounts legally due to be paid by each selfemployed person.' A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u64	Madam Minister, thanks to the concept of the reintegration plan, a better opportunity was created for disabled people to be rushed back to work. We all know that there is room for improvement, but the concept is working. Persons who are unfit for work as a result of an accident at work or an occupational disease do not fall within the scope of the reintegration pathways. I have already mentioned this in the parliamentary discussions at the time. Persons in such a situation shall be subject to the re-employment procedure through the private insurance undertakings. Article 23 of the Accidents at Work Act of 10 April 1971 defines the procedure for re-employment. In the present situation, this procedure can only be initiated at the initiative of the occupational accident insurance company, which is not even required to do so. For the time being, the incapacity for work or persons with an occupational disease do not themselves have the possibility to apply for re-employment. However, the law of 13 July 2006 introduced the possibility for disabled persons to apply for re-employment themselves. However, this article has not yet been implemented. In this context, last year I questioned the Minister for Work, Minister Peeters, who replied to me that you and he intended to work as quickly as possible on further streamlining the rules on reintegration and the laws on accidents at work and occupational diseases. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to ask you, as Minister for Social Affairs, the following questions. What progress has been made in streamlining the rules on the reintegration of legislation on accidents at work and occupational diseases? In what way will these categories of persons be eligible for work reintegration plans? Are you working as a minister on an implementing act for the provisions of the Law of 13 July 2006, which should enable persons with an accident at work or an occupational disease to apply for a re-employment? What time limit do you propose? What other initiatives are you planning to take to encourage workers with an approved accident at work or an approved occupational disease and their employers to resume work or to allow reintegration with another employer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u65	Mr Spooren, as you know, the new reintegration pathways started at the end of 2016. At that time, it was indeed chosen not to apply them in the event of re-employment following an accident at work or occupational disease, given the specific nature of both risks and both sectors. So it started with people who fell out because of illness. Victims of an accident at work or occupational disease may currently benefit from the re-employment procedure already in place, with temporary partial incapacity for work as a result of these risks. They can therefore partially resume the work and were treated differently. Getting back to work is important for everyone. The positive impact of reintegration on the person concerned cannot be sufficiently emphasised. Supporting disabled people in the search for a job remains one of the key elements of the policy. This must also be the case in the long term, regardless of the cause of the incapacity. As the new reintegration pathways of sickness funds and employers reach cruising speed, we can also focus on optimising the re-employment procedure in the event of an accident at work or an occupational disease. The new reintegration pathways are currently being evaluated within the NAR. This will result in a number of recommendations which can also be applied in the case of re-employment following an accident at work or an occupational disease. On this basis, we will continue to work when we have to implement new measures in the context of accidents at work and occupational diseases. There's still a complication. As you know, in the event of an accident at work, there must first be a consolidation of the reduction in working capacity. This depends on the insurance, but also on the nature of the injuries suffered by the victim of the accident at work. We know that consolidation can take a very long time, sometimes even several years. We must therefore make a separate arrangement for this, because we must also take this into account. There are people who are going back to work, consolidated or not, but others too are waiting to see what consolidation will give. They will therefore remain completely unfit for work. I do not have to tell you that consolidation depends on what they will get back because of the accident at work in order to provide financial compensation for the incapacity for work. That's why we kept it out there. This would not make things easier, but I agree with you that we should also take account of this in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u66	Mr President, Minister, I agree with you that we need to work on this step by step. We can't do everything at once. I can see that you await the advice of the NAR. As you yourself say, I believe that we must ensure that these accidents at work and occupational diseases can also benefit from the general scheme of work reintegration plans. It's my favorite. And if that is not possible, we must at least take an implementing decision so that those people who are unable to work due to accidents at work or occupational diseases can and may take the initiative to apply for a re-employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u67	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to address with you the issue of the funding of social secretariats. These bodies are entrusted with missions of public utility. In particular, they receive social security contributions due from employers, before paying them to the ONSS. However, contrary to what is applicable to mutual societies and trade unions, the question of the remuneration of social secretariats for these public utility tasks is not addressed in our legislation. This does not mean, however, that social secretariats are not paid for these missions. In fact, the State transfers indirectly to the fund because the social secretariats have a time limit to return the sums held on behalf of the State to the ONSS. These deadlines allow the social secretariats to invest substantial sums of money and to raise interest amounting to several million euros. The problem, minister, is that this method of remuneration makes the funding system at least opaque. Today, no one can tell exactly what the social secretariats receive. The Court of Auditors also recommended, in its 2014 Social Security Paper, "to reconsider, on the basis of an analysis of the data collected, this particular method of financing social secretariats with a view to reducing their opacity". This also makes the system inefficient. In fact, unlike mutual societies and trade unions which are responsible and therefore have an interest in being efficient, particularly in the speed of payments, the social secretariats have every interest in keeping the money as long as possible. On the side of social secretariats, the system also seems not to be appropriate. Indeed, they indicate that if the situation could be comfortable at some point, given the current interest rates, this is no longer the case. This, of course, requires further elaboration and costing. Minister, it seems now more than time to think about a new way of funding the social secretariats. So my questions are as follows. On 22 October 2015, we adopted a resolution calling on the Court of Auditors to carry out audits in the mutual funds sector in order to make the system even more transparent, to increase its efficiency and to objectify its financing. Are you in favour of a similar audit of the Court of Auditors in the sector of social secretariats? If not, why? Are you in favour of a revision of the method of financing the social secretariats that takes account of the reserves set up, which makes the system transparent, improves its efficiency and empowers the actors? If not, why? Last question. Is a change to this method of funding planned by your government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u68	Mr Laaouej, the legal status of the social secretariats in our system is not comparable to that of the mutualities and unemployment insurance funds established with the trade unions. The health insurance regulations require the social insured person to use either a paying agency or an auxiliary sickness and disability insurance fund to obtain reimbursement of his benefits according to the applicable scales. The unemployment regulations oblige the unemployed person to use a paying agency, either a trade union, if affiliated, or the Auxiliary Unemployment Benefit Payment Fund (CAPAC). Mutuals and unemployment insurance funds are social security institutions. Social secretariats are private service providers. There is no obligation for employers to join a social secretariat. Their status was subject to a thorough review in 2009 in order to comply with the Services Directive. Registered social secretariats are service providers who, in their capacity as employer's representatives, make various declarations imposed by social regulations. They also carry out a public utility mission of collecting contributions due from their affiliated employers to pay them to the ONSS. Prior to the performance of this public utility mission, they are paid by employers. In recent years, financial control methods have been formalized in the form of uniform reporting for effective monitoring of financial risks. The aim is to allow better monitoring of transit funds and also a better guarantee against the losses of these funds. The purpose of the monitoring of operating results is to ensure the existence of approved social secretariats and to deliver quality services, both for the benefit of client employers and public services. Since 2017, a corporate reviewer reporting template has been developed. Its objective is to monitor the uniform application of the accounting model, the quarterly reporting of the transit fund and certain specific ratios. However, a directive on investments applies to recognized social secretariats of cash and transit funds, as well as a instruction on quarterly reporting of investments of registered social secretariats. Both my predecessor and I have taken steps to improve the approved social secretariats, including the above-mentioned model. In addition, in order to obtain recognition, they must meet criteria requiring qualities as set out in the qualitative barometer. The order setting it up was published on 20 February 2017 at the Moniteur belge.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You rightly distinguish between social secretariats, mutuals and trade unions. Of course, these are not the same activities. However, there is a similarity between them, since some form of intermediation applies between payments from social or public funds to some administered and insured persons. There is thus a point of convergence here, except, of course, in the case of social secretariats, the flow of employers to social or public funds, in the case of social security contributions or occupational prepayments. So, despite everything, there are many similarities, even if you are right to point out that it is not the same thing. However, you do not answer our questions. Indeed, we could give you the numerical demonstration that, on the side of the social secretariats, cash management is particularly active, so that they can enrich themselves with financial products by playing precisely the time between when they receive the money from the employers and when they pay it to social security or to the occupational discount. This clearly leads to loss of wealth for employers. In addition, social security funds and public funds are deprived of liquidity. In fact, less quickly they receive these amounts less they can benefit from them. This therefore implies a financial cost. In other words, Madam Minister, I was waiting for you to help us identify the time between payment by employers and transfer to social security funds. However, I do not have the impression that you have answered me in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u70	No, because you introduced your question yesterday. My co-worker told me that he has not yet answered this question, but that he will explore the question. He hasn't had time, since the question was sent to the cabinet yesterday around 11:00, to get an answer. This employee is in contact with the social secretariat funds. We will certainly investigate this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u71	There's money lost for employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u72	I get it. I talked to him about it. He said he didn't have time to do that research. But we'll do it and I'll keep you informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-27-54-commissie-ic938x.u73	I propose that a more focused question be re-examined in this regard. Madam Minister, perhaps you can already consider, since you have the tools to do so, doing an audit, as was done at the time for mutuals, in order to identify the financial flows that I have just mentioned to you? It is not a question of incriminating social secretariats. It's about seeing if there's any enrichment. I am not saying that it is unfair, but that it is a boon effect, to the detriment of other economic and public actors. I ask you to consider the possibility of an audit. I'll come back to the subject.
