ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u1	Mr Vanvelthoven has been excused, but Mr Deseyn maintains his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I would like to draw your attention to question No. 2024 on tax regularizations. In reply to that question, Minister, you said that tax regularisation would not have any effect if the person concerned was informed of specific ongoing investigations prior to the declaration. That is exactly what my question is about. After all, you have not specified whether the sending of requests for information falls within the scope of Article 6, 3° of the Law on Regularisation. I have two simple questions. Firstly, do you confirm that sending requests for information to Belgian taxpayers falls within the scope of Article 6, 3° of the Law on Regularisation? Secondly, do you confirm that the tax-deprecated capital cannot be regularised if they are entered in an ongoing judicial investigation prior to the submission of the regularisation declaration?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u3	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, first of all I would like to refer to my answer to the written question No. 2024, on which you yourself have alluded. I can confirm once again that tax regularisation will not have any effect if, prior to the submission of the regularisation declaration by a Belgian judicial authority or a Belgian tax administration, specific investigations have been notified in writing. My answer is a bit intertwined with the answer to Mr Vanvelthoven's questions, but I assume you are also interested in hearing these aspects. Recently, the administration received a mass of information from Belgian accounts abroad, including through the so-called new Common Reporting Standard. For most accounts there is usually no problem, but tax and criminal investigations from the past have shown that foreign accounts were also used to hide black income or obtain movable income without the payment of movable withholding tax. I have already explained the statute of limitations in the plenary session of 1 February. Before a file will be transferred to the parquet, the General Administration of the BBI will invite the taxpayer to regularize his tax-barred capital at the Contact Point regularisations. I would stress that the investigation of the General Administration of the BBI and the enquiries for information that have been and will be sent only relate to tax-free periods. The current specific research actions of the Belgian tax administration therefore relate only to non-annuity income. The regularisation of the tax-deprecated capital at the Regularisation Contact Point will have its full effect once the levy has been paid, even if a request for information was sent in respect of the non-deprecated tax periods. Finally, as regards the question of the fact that certain taxable persons of the General Administration of the BBI will be invited or have already received an invitation to comply with their legal obligations through the Regulatory Contact Point, it is true that the selection criteria and the strategy for the various control actions of the General Administration of the BBI, including those which you identify, are only for internal use and cannot be communicated for obvious reasons. The General Administration of the BBI carries out tax audits. I can confirm that the files are those whose administration suspects that certain revenues have not been declared. Contacts between taxable persons and the administration may take place both in writing and orally, depending on the situation and the nature of the file. At this stage it is premature to give up numbers, as the administration for this action is still in the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for this clarification. It is important to clarify that the return of questions is linked to the tax-free periods. It is important to know that all procedures can be carried out and that the amounts on which tax is due can be recovered to a maximum.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanvelthoven's 23532 has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 23532 by Mrs Galant has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Terwingen has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u6	This is not about legislation, it is about proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u7	Mr President, I shall continue with the previous questions Nos 9331, 9498 and 9624 on this very technical issue. In reply to these questions, you said that a legal solution had to be found to the problem of frontier workers and the payment of dependent children's allowances. From the year 2018 onwards, that solution has been registered in the law by the Law of 25 December 2017 laying down various provisions Ill. Recently, a very interesting article in Trends explained how this is assessed. According to the article, the assessment of the most advantageous assessment is not based on the principal but on the total of the tax state and the tax on the movable income box for the two spouses together. The tax-free surcharges for family expenses are thus automatically granted to the taxable person with the lowest taxable income from tax year 2018 when the sum of the tax state and the tax on the movable income box for that family is lower than the sum of the family allowances granted to the taxable person with the highest income. The deduction on the lowest income will be the general rule from the year 2018 onwards, if it is more advantageous. It is a curious finding that the assessment of the most advantageous tax calculation is not based on the final balance of the calculation but on an intermediate balance. In other words, according to the article, the assessment of the most advantageous assessment is carried out before the charge of most federal and all regional tax reductions, tax credits and municipal tax, which often leads to an apparently more advantageous charging at the level of the tax state of the family charges on the lowest income, whereas that calculation is de facto less favourable at the level of the final balance. The amendment through the law of 25 December 2017 therefore does not seem to offer a solution for everyone. For some, this would increase the tax burden by more than EUR 1 000. This seems to be due to the fact that, in some cases, the compulsory payment of family allowances to the taxpayer with the lowest income makes tax cuts for the housing bonus and pension savings virtually completely lost. However, the amendment of the law was not intended to affect the tax bill of the persons concerned. It is also a very technical mechanism due to the different methods of calculation and the sequence of steps. Minister, is the government aware that the amendment of the law could make some taxpayers worse off for the 2018 tax year than before, with the normal application of the methodology of Article 134 WIB? Therefore, should the law not be amended? How will you deal with this problem? For those concerned, it is a bitter pill if a well-meaning measure leads to a negative end result. It is a rather complex matter given the many parameters involved and our state structure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u8	Mr Minister, my question goes in the same direction. The law on various tax provisions III of 25 December 2017 amended the law on tax relief for dependent children. From the 2018 tax year onwards, the administration can allocate the tax relief for dependent children to the partner with the lowest income, if this proves to be more advantageous. The administration would then make the calculation for the families concerned and automatically choose the most advantageous method. That was, of course, a good thing in itself. For years we have had to wait for a legal solution to the tax discrimination of married frontier workers. I was therefore very pleased at the end of December that a solution had finally been found. I myself have tabled legislative proposals for this, both in the previous legislature and in this legislature. Since the administration would now take it upon itself to make the best calculation, I did not want to demand that the solution contained in my bill be used. My proposal was simply to give married people the choice of who to charge the children, as is currently the case with actual cohabitants. Perhaps, however, it would be easier if the calculation could be made for them. Fiscalist Jef Wellens said in Trends that this will indeed be the case in a number of cases, but the current legislative amendment does not seem to be a solution for everyone. However, I believe that this should be the intention. The most advantageous calculation shall be determined not on the basis of the final balance of that calculation, but on the basis of an intermediate balance and before the charge of all other tax reductions. My questions are as follows, Minister. Is it true that the new method of calculating the tax relief even means an increase in the tax burden for some taxpayers? If so, will you take the necessary steps? Do you see any point in amending the law, taking over from my bill, in particular in order to leave the choice to the married persons themselves, so that they can carry out the calculation themselves? Finally, the new law has entered into force from the year 2018 onwards. For 2017 the scheme was applied administratively. How many taxable persons applied for exemption for the previous years on the basis of the judgments of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, Mr Deseyn, if the assessment of whether a system is more advantageous or not, at a stage of the calculation before the final balance, it is logical that a number of elements should not be taken into account in this assessment. It cannot therefore be excluded that a system is more advantageous at the level of the tax State, but that it is not necessary at the level of the final balance. However, the above is the direct consequence of the legislative adjustment in 2014 of the Income Tax Code. At that time it was decided to introduce the regional additional tax on personal income tax, but in the sense that the application of those regional tax rules should not have an impact on the taxable base and the tax state. As a result, it was decided by law to assess, from the 2015 tax year onwards, not at the level of the final balance but at the level of the tax State whether or not the application of, inter alia, the marriage coefficient and the globalization of the separately taxable income is more advantageous to the taxable person. The same logic was followed for charging the allowances on the duty-free sum in the event of a common charge. I am aware, in other words, that in a limited number of cases this logic does not produce the expected result for taxpayers, but at the same time the sixth state reform also imposes a number of rules that do not allow us to look at or calculate things differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u10	Minister, your presentation of the history was very interesting. It explains the logic of things. Sometimes the end result seems absurd, but logic is inherent in the state system. It shows the need to hold more interfederal tax conferences. After all, one will only be in that group which is suffering the negative effects of a well-meaning measure. So the ratio is there. We had to find a comparison here, so that it leads to a more positive result for the target group that is in that particular situation. Minister, the analysis you are making is that we federally do not have the tools to remedy it now, in complete completeness. So it's a work in progress. The good understandor will perhaps understand that two accounts or two bills will bring about a more purer situation. But we must now explain how this can be done. It's not like I'm on the barricade advocating major reforms, but it does explain a few things. The complexity of our State has clear repercussions for the individual taxpayer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u11	Mrs Wouters, do you have any institutional reservations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u12	Mr President, of course, for me the solution is that everything comes to Flanders so that we can look at it ourselves. Minister, you say this is the way it's been calculated since 2015. There was, of course, a solution, namely by allowing the married persons themselves to choose how to complete their tax return and to whom they assign the dependent children. The actual people living together can do that at the moment. They can and can optimise their tax bill for themselves. There is still a difference between those actually living together and those married. We have been discussing this for years and there have been statements that there is no equality between these two situations. And now the situation is still not resolved for everyone. Actually, cohabitants can perfectly calculate what is most optimal for them tax, while due to the calculation as it has been done since tax year 2015, the married couples of course cannot still be in a more negative situation for all married couples. Prime Minister, I did not receive an answer to my last question about the number of taxable persons who have applied for an automatic exemption. Can you give me that table in writing, because I can understand that the deadline for requesting those figures was too short?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u13	Minister, how can we make GAFAs (Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon) pay for these American digital platforms that have revolutionized the economy, their fair share of taxes? The debate is ongoing at European level. The French president, Emmanuel Macron, believes that the GAFAs, which he describes as "clandestine passengers of the contemporary world", are indeed a real challenge for tax practitioners. The rules for taxation of current enterprises, designed for the traditional economy, are in fact based on the principle of "permanent establishment", i.e. only those companies which have a physical presence in a country, measured by the amount of assets, the number of employees and the amount of sales, can be taxed. However, digital companies can offer their services via the Internet by being legally established in the country of their choice, in practice in a State which offers them advantageous tax conditions. For example, Facebook draws its wealth from data collected across Europe (33 million accounts in France, 31 million in Germany) which it sells to other companies that can then market. Thanks to the user's like, you can see if the user prefers rugby to football, for example, and approach it accordingly by offering products related to these sports. In addition, Facebook may sell its data by subsidiaries located elsewhere than where users and their data are located. In this case, while these advertising revenues are minimal in France and Germany, in 2015 they amounted to almost EUR 7.9 billion in Ireland, where there are far fewer Facebook accounts than in these other two countries. It is in states such as Ireland, where the tax rate is the lowest in Europe for companies (12.5%), that Silicon Valley giants house their subsidiaries, where they concentrate all their profits in other European countries. For Google, the same pattern is observed overall. In the face of this situation, several solutions are under consideration. In France, the idea was put forward to tax these GAFAs on the turnover generated in each European country, rather than on profits, which are now concentrated in countries with low tax rates. This proposal was presented by France in late September in Estonia. It has received support from some 20 countries, including Germany, Italy and Spain. Other States, such as Cyprus, Malta, Ireland or Luxembourg, are opposed. At the Belgian level, you had estimated, at the end of last year, that "the devil was hiding in the details", even though "the basic idea is very healthy". Other European Member States had been reserved, in particular because they wanted the problem to be dealt with at international level, within the OECD or the G20. However, in tax matters, the adoption of new European legislation requires unanimity among the 28 members. Jean-Claude Juncker would like to change this with a qualified majority on issues related to digital and its taxation. The coming year will obviously be very important in this area. We're going to have to make decisions in connection with these digital giants. Increasingly, they have an impact on all aspects of our life and society. It is therefore normal that they should also be able to contribute fairly to the financing of society, of social security, of a whole series of goods that we have. This is not the case today, a situation denounced by many countries. Minister, what is Belgium's official position on the French proposal to tax GAFAs on their turnover generated in each European country? Do you intend to support this initiative? The benefits of such a tax could, for example, finance a fund dedicated to the digital transition, in order to make it more inclusive and create sustainable jobs in our regions. If you remain lukewarm or not yet convinced by this French initiative, what other proposals or solutions does Belgium wish to put forward so that providers of digital platforms contribute fairly to the financing of the community? In our view, this is not the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u14	Mr Vanden Burre, the issue of taxation of the digital economy is taken very seriously by Belgium and receives the necessary attention from its technical representatives. Aware of the growing importance of digital economy issues for the national tax base, Belgium welcomes the European initiative in this area and is following with interest the ongoing work and reflections, both within the OECD and within the European Union. Belgium supports the conclusions of the Council of the European Union in December. The definition of new international tax standards for the digital economy must take place, first and foremost, at the multinational, G20 and OECD levels. An accumulation of unilateral solutions by different states could be potentially harmful, both fiscally and economically. We await the European Commission's proposal, scheduled for the end of March 2018, and support Commissioner Moscovici's intention to find a solution at European level before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u15	I thank you, Minister, for this somewhat half-raisin response, if I may say so. Indeed, you welcome the initiative, but at the same time you say that it would be better to act at the OECD or the G20 level. You do not really comment on the possibility of taxing turnover as proposed by France. I really want the government to have more voluntarism on the file. We can't move on by ourselves, for sure. We're aware of that. Even if we can do things at Belgian level, I think that here, for a tax on turnover in a global way, on these content providers and digital providers, imagining that Belgium can move forward alone does seem a bit utopian to me, but we can have an influence at European level. I ask you to be more proactive, at least in terms of having a fair contribution from their economic activities to fund the common good or the community. Is this turnover tax? This seems to us a very interesting track at the level of Ecolo-Groen but we could obviously imagine something else. What is certain is that the current situation is completely unbalanced. My group and I personally have doubts about a resolution in the G20 or the OECD. It is already complicated at European Union level. In other broader international forums, this seems all the more complicated. As soon as we have the European Union's position or final proposal, we will come back with our questions on this fundamental issue, which indeed deserves the attention of all, and above all political will.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u16	Yesterday, a colloquium was held between the national parliaments and the European Parliament. During this debate, we discussed it for almost two hours with Commissioners Moscovici and Dombrovskis and with the chairman of the Finance and Economy Committee, whose name I do not know. He's Italian. We have mentioned a tax on turnover. We have had the whole discussion about digitisation and the numerical economy, about Amazon, Google and such companies. We have heard the statements made by almost all the Member States who are very concerned about this evolution. The European Commission will also make a number of proposals. I do not know if they have already been to the Ecofin Council. However, this is a debate which is really taken seriously at European level. Everyone insists that there should be fiscal justice in this area too. Indeed, a number of companies which are simply unlocalisable because of their activities are currently withdrawing billions of euros from the community.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u17	I would like to make a clarification that I think is very important in this discussion. Of course, the tax contribution of these companies is very important, but another aspect at least as important, in my view, is the monopoly aspect. We must find a solution for them to pay a proper contribution, but we must avoid that the discussion on this subject "blame" us for the monopoly aspect which is much more important in the long term for society, well-being, etc. Attention must therefore be paid to both aspects. A solution must be found for the taxation of turnover. The question is how to locate the latter. There will probably be somewhat arbitrary formulae. We will have to agree on this. But I repeat that we must not forget the monopoly aspect which, in my view, is the most important. If we don't act, the situation will get worse. This is an issue that must be discussed at the international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u18	Mr President and Mr Minister, I thank you for your additional comments, which show that there is a real interest in this fundamental issue. I agree with you on the monopoly aspect. That is why European champions should be formed in this area in order to open up competition. Yesterday, the working group on the digital agenda met for the first time and heard from Professor Bram Vanderborght of the VUB. We will of course continue our work. My colleague Kitir and I hope that, within this framework, we will be able to address the tax aspects – even if this is not yet decided. In any case, politics must take over this essential theme. Similarly, I hope that many other issues will be dealt with in detail by our working group, which will also benefit from the views of this committee as well as that of the minister. We're only at the beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u19	Mr. Chair, Minister, farmers under the lump-sum scheme had the unpleasant surprise of receiving a reminder from the FPS Finances indicating that their tax return had not yet been filed. This letter of reminder, wrongly sent to 6,585 farmers, concerned the declarations lodged between 4 and 10 January 2018 by an agent via Tax-on-web. Indeed, as a result of an error by the FPS Finances, the FPS did not take these statements into account in the selection of reminder letters. Minister, such a mistake has a certain cost, even if it is clear that it can only happen to those who work. I do not incriminate but I think that in 2018, this specific taxation for farmers is very well known to the finance administration. I therefore wanted, without controversy, to take stock with you and have your version.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u20	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Cassart-Mailleux, the General Tax Administration sent approximately 240,000 reminder letters for returns not filed for the 2017 tax year. Unfortunately, to farmers subject to the flat-rate scheme, it had sent 6,600 letters of reminder wrongly. It is an integrated chain of several IT applications that supports the processing of personal tax and includes data exchange between these applications. As a result of a technical error, the administration did not take into account the declarations made between 4 and 10 January 2018 by an agent via Tax-on-web. The FPS Finance has communicated via its spokespersons, the website and social networks and to representatives of the economic professions. Indeed, the General Tax Administration automatically grants an additional period of time on 10 January to farmers who file an electronic declaration via an agent. In addition, the reminder letter stated that the taxpayer should not react to the return if it had filed its return. Not all reminder letters sent on January 25, 2018 are affected by this error. We've identified the mistake. As I have just said, this involved approximately 6,600 declarations for the period from 4 to 10 January 2018. I come to your question as to whether this error had already occurred in the past. The answer is negative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u21	Mr President, I thank the Minister for the comprehensiveness of his response. I did not want to argue, but I wanted to take stock with you on this and thank you for doing so. Indeed, I had had some echoes concerning this unwarranted reminder.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I have two questions, one of which is more general and the other specifically applies to the overtime scheme. The Programme Act of 25 December 2017 provides for a limitation of the tax benefits pro rata temporal. It concerns in particular the limitation of the benefits in the tax for non-residents. On the basis of the case law of the European Court of Justice, Belgium should only grant the same income-related benefits to non-residents who do not earn most of their income in Belgium as those granted to nationals. The scheme was already announced in 2016 with the policy paper for the year 2017 and is implemented with the Programme Act. A person who is resident in Belgium for one month, who carries out any economic activity or engages in a professional activity, is taxed for one month. In this respect, it is also logical that tax advantages are granted not for a full year but in relation to residence or presence in Belgium. In its opinion, the Council of State cites the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 29 April 2004 in the Pusa case. In doing so, the Council does not have sufficient time to examine for each of these benefits whether their deletion does not lead to inequality in breach of European law. That's a very interesting situation. After all, the European Court of Justice makes judgments and mentions a matter of principle, whereas the Council of State says that it is not able to examine this for all its parts. However, we have all approved these matters, and that had to be done quite quickly, which is typical, but now there are comments from practice and we have to take into account higher case law and so on. When preparing the programme law, have you been able to test all these tax advantages in the cabinet or in the administration? Is there a note on that? After all, the Council of State does not say that it has been able to check everything. In anticipation of the many practical problems in the future, do I wonder whether the application can pass the test according to the criteria expressed by the Court of Justice in different judgments? Has this exercise been carried out or is that work still on the shelf and should it be taken up over time? That wouldn't be an ideal situation. In order to better prepare the future, it is very interesting to know the data from the preparation. My second question concerns one of the many advantages, in particular overtime. The introduction to this question is, of course, the same as for the previous one, since the principle has already been sufficiently outlined. The overtime must have been paid in Belgium at 100% and taxed, otherwise the benefit will not be paid or will not be paid. It is in that context that I would like to ask you the following questions, Minister. Can you clarify how this measure relates to Article 156, 2°? This is the article that exempts professional income earned abroad. In particular, can you clarify how that article relates to the professional activities or activities carried out in countries with which Belgium has not concluded a double taxation convention? Why is that important? A duty-free sum shall also be calculated in time and pro rata according to where the professional activity is carried out. The same applies to the benefit for overtime. The tax reduction for foreign income depends on whether or not a tax treaty exists. We are therefore dealing with a matter which needs to be cleared as to the order of accounts and where a distinction applies. Suppose, for example, that 90% of overtime is performed in Belgium and 10% abroad, is the benefit completely lost or is it calculated on a pro rata basis? How does that relate to Article 156, 2°? This is a specific scheme for occupational income earned abroad. If there is no double taxation convention, the system is that revenue will be reduced by half, if I am in favour of it. We're sitting there with different fractions in that account, which is very complex. Let me give you an example. If there is a professional activity for five months in France and seven months in Belgium but the overtime is performed entirely in Belgium, do you think the benefit will be retained or is there a pro rata consideration? These are all interpretations, so these are important questions to consider how this should be calculated in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u23	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, first I come to the Pusa case with regard to the tax advantages. By reducing certain tax advantages on the basis of the duration of the taxable period, the Government has sought to avoid that taxpayers who transfer their residence from abroad to Belgium or vice versa during the taxable period could benefit from these tax advantages twice. A system that avoids double benefits and treats residents and non-residents in the same way does not seem to me to be contrary to European law. With regard to overtime questions, in order to benefit from the tax relief for overtime, it is not necessary for this overtime to be carried out entirely in Belgium, but the remuneration from that overtime must be fully taxed in Belgium. For residents, this means that the reduction for overtime does not apply to overtime remuneration to which the tax relief for foreign income has been applied. This is then both the exemption with progression retention and the reduction to half, in application of Article 156, to which you refer. For non-residents, the reduction in overtime is only applicable where the remuneration from that overtime in Belgium constitutes taxable occupational income which is actually regularised in the tax return in non-residents. It is therefore not necessary to establish a ratio between overtime worked in Belgium and abroad and subsequently to limit the tax relief for overtime in accordance with that ratio.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u24	Mr President, Minister, that is what is called 'the points on the spot'. Thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u25	Mr Minister, the flexi-jobs were extended by the Programme Act of 25 December 2017 to retail and hairdressing and, on the other hand, to pensioners. This extension should no longer be translated into a tax exemption. At that time, you proposed that the income paid as a result of flexi-jobs should be included in the calculation note attached to the bill. That seems to me to be a very interesting slope. In this way it will be possible for the tax authorities to see how much revenue a taxable person's income is exempt from tax in the context of flexi-jobs. The same is true of the profit premium and the measures relating to non-taxable income. This led to the curious conclusion that the system thus far did not provide for the inclusion of income on the calculation note. The question then is how the tax authorities were able to verify the correct application of the flexi-jobs and whether there was no improper use or even fraud involved? At the start, too, the question of how we could follow up and how we could rule out abuse was discussed. I think you have chosen a very good path now, but what about the previous revenues from flexi-jobs? How are they handled in an administrative manner? How can we properly monitor this? Or did we have a different view of the tax exempt amounts granted under flexi-jobs, as well as the number of taxable persons using them? It would be interesting to know what amounts are involved for how many flexi-jobbers from entry into force until now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u26	To date, no control action has been organised on the application of flexi-jobs, which of course has to do with the relatively recent nature of the subject. However, my administration will carry out an analysis and, according to its results, determine the most appropriate approach for any tax risks. The organisation of a control action is a possible outcome of the analysis. It is, of course, possible that certain valuation services have already carried out checks on the correct application of flexi-jobs in the context of locally selected files. The exempt income from flexi-jobs will be shown on the revenue sheet 281.10 in the Miscellaneous Information section as from the 2016 revenue year. In this way, the administration has a view of the amounts exempt from tax, the number of taxpayers with a flexi-job and the number of employers employing flexi-job workers. For the 2016 revenue year, this amounts to EUR 36.1 million in exempted amounts, 28 097 flexi-job workers and 6 553 employers. The data for the 2017 revenue year are not yet available, as the sheets may be submitted until 1 March.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u27	Minister, the future system will certainly be better. We'll have more info. You're saying there haven't been any check-ups yet. That seems to me to be wrong, all the more so if one wants to counter the rumor that flexi-jobs in practice amount to the replacement of a full-time job by a four-fifth job, which is then supplemented. So far, all this has been quite difficult to estimate. It therefore seems to me justified to add a question of information and clarification, because otherwise the system cannot be controlled and no one knows how much money is invested in it in terms of fiscal expenditure. These are interesting figures, which can be a useful tool in evaluating the flexi-jobs system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u28	Mr President, Minister, it is an interesting point in terms of administrative simplification that a registered letter could be replaced by a plain letter. In addition to the measures in the fight against tax fraud, the programme law of 25 December 2017, which we have already discussed a number of times today, includes measures for better and more efficient collection, which is not an insignificant matter. After all, much remains to be recovered, bearing in mind that there are still outstanding tax debts of EUR 18 billion. However, I have a specific question concerning the gradual replacement of the registered letter by the ordinary letter to the domanial law of 1949. If I understand correctly, the ordinary letter provides that the limitation period shall not be interrupted. For the official, this is annoying because the legal effects would be different in that case. It may be argued that such formalities are strictly complied with in order to protect the legal person concerned. However, if the official wants the limitation period to be stopped, a registered letter will have to be sent. Will this not lead to duplication of work or will the services not dare to send the ordinary letter first? Does this mean that there is no administrative complexity in the system, although it was intended to simplify matters? Is the administration being contacted by you about this? What will the modus vivendi be? How will that be handled? Will the solution be to try the ordinary letter first? Quid with the issue of statute of limitations? Will there be no additional costs? That is my fear, namely that there would be duplication of work. The measure is very well-intentioned. However, I would like to assess how the area and administration can handle this measure in a good way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u29	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, first of all I can make it very clear that the two letters in question do not create any duplication. One month before the debtor is allowed to prosecute the debt, he must send a payment order to the debtor. Since 8 January 2018, this can also be done by regular letter. In addition, the recipient has the possibility to stop the limitation period by sending a registered notice of payment. Both letters have a very different purpose or finality. Where the debt is subject to limitation, the recipient must verify that there are still real and proportionate recovery options. Only in that case may he stop the limitation period by sending the registered letter of payment, to which reference has just been made. As discussed, both letters therefore serve a different purpose. The first letter aims to obtain a spontaneous payment and the second letter is sent only if the debt has not yet been paid, when the debt comes to a limitation period. The notice of formal notice is part of the automation of the recovery of non-fiscal claims. Since this automation was only recently implemented and the registered character was changed from 8 January 2018, there is currently no figures available on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u30	Mr President, this is an old written question that has not been answered for more than a year. If we have to play the ball briefly in the fight against terrorism, it is time to raise this question as an oral question. It is important that an answer is given, because it is an interesting method, which is detrimental to the tax authorities but inventive. Indeed, the marketing of CO2 emissions certificates is injected into a VAT carousel and this allows the public authorities to be informed of large amounts of money. There would be a network in Germany, Italy and the Netherlands. Measures have already been taken against this in the Netherlands. As far as I know, there is now an investigation in Germany. In the light of previous experiences with VAT carousels, we must ensure that Belgium is not abused unnoticed in order to allow public money to be diverted to terrorist actions via international scam. As a result of a reportage and the revelation of the entire filière, I would like to ask the Minister if he has any knowledge of the involvement of Belgian companies, of abuse in which VAT owed to Belgium was never paid and whether there have been any contacts. As the neighbouring countries were suffering, I would be surprised if there could be no Belgian outcry. This is worth at least an investigation or contact with the administration in the Netherlands, Germany and Italy. Is an investigation currently under way, possibly in the context of a risk analysis? After all, we know that the administration is actively working on this and that it is a prominent part of your policy to combat VAT carousels. Is VAT fraud by jihadists in Belgium or do you not know about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u31	Mr Deseyn, at the moment, the tax authorities have no knowledge of cases of fraudulent practices that are relevant to the financing of jihadist practices. Indeed, in the context of its ongoing contacts with the specialised administrative units in other countries, there have already been a number of informal contacts on this subject, without, however, direct links with Belgium. As always, the BBI remains particularly vigilant for every possible fraud phenomenon, in all aspects. It goes without saying that, as soon as she was informed of the subject raised by, for example, the anti-money cell or the parquets, action would be taken immediately within the tasks of the BBI.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u33	Mr Minister, recently, in the columns of La Libre, you made an important point about the EUR 45,000 rule, which concerns many SME leaders. Indeed, the economic fabric of Belgium is made up of a large number of SMEs which could be weakened by too brutal application of this rule. The measure therefore specifies that the minimum remuneration to be granted to at least one manager of an undertaking shall be increased from EUR 36,000 to EUR 45,000, but that if such remuneration proves to be less than that amount, it shall be accepted that it is only equal to the minimum taxable profit of the company. You indicate in the press that the 50/50 rule has not been changed and that it is sufficient that the minimum remuneration is equal to half of the company's profit. As an example, you then take the following case: "A company with a profit of EUR 50,000 may continue to pay its manager up to EUR 25,000 while benefiting from the reduced rate." This statement did not fail to raise very many questions on the part of professionals in the figure, in particular the Order of Accountants and Accountants Patented in Belgium. Minister, what definition do you give of the company's "profit" or "profit"? Is it the taxable basis determined after the additions of D.N.A. and extra-accountable deductions? Is this the accounting profit? Is this the accounting profit or the taxable basis previously reduced by the executive's remuneration? It is obvious that all these rules fundamentally influence the 50/50 on the definitions given. Minister, in order to avoid any interpretation, can you confirm that the reduced rate applies in two situations that I take as an example? For example, a company with a tax base of €75,000 must not allocate €45,000 to its manager to retain its right to the reduced rate, but can only pay it a fee of €37,500. Similarly, a company with a taxable base of 26,000 euros and which has awarded a remuneration of 20,000 euros to its manager will never be penalized by the loss of the reduced rate. Thank you, Minister, for giving us a little clarification or definition that will allow us to empty all interpretations that can generate a lot of gesticulations in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u34	Mr Scourneau, the new provision which provides for a minimum remuneration of a manager increased to 45 000 euros has not changed the way in which this minimum remuneration is to be assessed in relation to the result of the taxable period. The result of the taxable period is, as specified in parliamentary documents, the amount on which corporate tax is calculated after the various deductions have been applied. In other words, the tax base of the company to which the executive remuneration of the company is to be compared already takes into account the taking over of the latter. In other words, it is important in practice to use the corporation's taxable income before deducting the executive's remuneration to be able to verify the minimum remuneration required. In concrete terms, two situations can arise. The first possibility, that is, the taxable profit of the company before deduction of the remuneration, amounts to 90 000 euros or more and in this case the minimum remuneration must be 45 000 euros. Second option: the company's taxable income before deducting remuneration amounts to less than EUR 90 000. The minimum remuneration to be paid must be at least 50% of the taxable income before deduction of the remuneration. The remuneration granted is thus equal to the taxable income after deduction of the remuneration. Applied to the three examples you cite, this gives the following. First, the company's taxable income amounts to EUR 75 000, on the understanding that it has not yet paid any remuneration. What remuneration does it have to pay in order to qualify for the reduced rate? The remuneration must be at least EUR 37,500. After deduction of this remuneration, the taxable income of the company amounts to the same amount: EUR 37,500. The condition is, in this case, fulfilled. Secondly, if the company's taxable income amounts to EUR 75 000 after deduction of a remuneration of EUR 37 500, the company is excluded from the reduced rate. The taxable income of the company before deduction of the remuneration is then equal to 112,500 euros. The minimum remuneration required is always 45,000 euros, which is the maximum in general, regardless of the level of profit above 90,000 euros. Third, a company with a taxable income of 26 000 euros, after deduction of a remuneration of 20 000 euros, is also excluded from the reduced rate. Why? Because the taxable income before this deduction amounts to 46 000 euros. The minimum remuneration required is then equal to 50 per cent of this amount, i.e. 23 000 euros. After deduction of this remuneration, the taxable income will also amount to 23 000 euros. In other words, in the case you quote, the company should have paid 300,000 euros, no, 3,000 euros in additional remuneration to benefit from the reduced rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u35	Mr Minister, I thank you for being so precise – even if, in the end, 300,000 euros of taxation would have been rather difficult to bear. But it was only a small translation problem! I hope, in any case, that your answer will render all misinterpretations meaningless and that the rule will be clearly understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u37	No, but it's perfect; especially when you're wrong down!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u38	I did everything I could to explain this reform in Wallonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u39	But it's perfect!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u40	Of course, when one understands the reasoning in its entirety, it becomes clear. A lot of people, however, have doubts – what I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u41	Yes, of course, and that's very legitimate. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u42	Mr President, Minister, the Brexit will change life in our country and in Europe. Especially if there is a hard Brexit, the customs union will also be abandoned, which will result in additional tariff trade barriers being created again if a trade agreement with the United Kingdom is not reached. This is important for the British and Belgian companies, but also for a number of multinationals that controlled their imports into the EU through the United Kingdom. At least they'll have to look for a new gateway. That could possibly be Belgium. As a reliable partner for logistics activities, we can benefit from this. In your policy paper, you have therefore rightly made a commitment for 2018. The re-exportation of goods to and from the United Kingdom and thus the introduction of customs formalities will, of course, have a major impact on our SMEs, who often only do business within the EU, including the United Kingdom. In your policy paper, you have committed yourself to having customs information sessions organised in order to inform companies in good time about what the Brexit will mean to them. In addition, you stated in your policy paper that the new external border also implies additional monitoring and control. The current infrastructure does not provide for this everywhere, which means that we will have to prepare ourselves for additional checks after the Brexit. It is mainly about the North Sea, the North Sea coast, the stations of Brussels-South and Antwerp-Central and the airport of Deurne, where you think investments are necessary. You also calculated that the workforce would have to increase by three to four hundred full-time equivalents in order to maintain the same level of control. In this respect, your policy paper states that administrative support will seek to cope with the additional workload by increasing productivity and further automation. On the other hand, the additional resources and staffing units resulting from the Brexit require an additional budgetary effort. In that context, I would like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, what is the status of the information sessions to be organised by the General Administration of Customs and Excise in the context of the Brexit? Secondly, have you planned additional investments to strengthen the infrastructure of the crucial entrances and exits of Belgium? If so, what exactly and on what amount are these budgeted? Thirdly, what would you say will be the budgetary cost of recruiting three to four hundred new full-time equivalents? Can you also give an update on the roll-out of the necessary vacancies and the internal organisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u43	Mr President, Mr Van Peteghem, the General Administration of Customs and Excise has started information sessions a long time ago. An information page on the Brexit has also been published on her site. In addition, many other initiatives have already been launched. For example, since the beginning of this year there has been an e-mailing to the SMEs who regularly trade with the United Kingdom, you know that we have done so many things in Flanders but have not done any customs activity so far, in order to make them aware of the impact of the Brexit on their business. The administration also cooperates with information sessions organised by, for example, Flanders Investment & Trade, Kluwer and the Chambers of Commerce. There are also frequent consultations with the Zeebrugge Port Authority and a number of key players to find possible solutions within the existing European customs legislation to facilitate trade once the Brexit becomes effective. This consultation is organised with Zeebrugge, due to the special impact of the Brexit on this port, but it goes without saying that any measures resulting from it will be applicable throughout the country. An impact analysis has been carried out on the impact of the Brexit on the organisation of the customs administration and the associated investments, where different scenarios still have to be used in view of the state of the Brexit. The list of possible purchases now includes luggage scanners, dogs for detection of drugs and cash, hand scans, drones and a ground station for surveillance of the North Sea and the North Sea coast, vehicles, PCs, workshops, uniforms and armament. A first estimate of the number of full-time units to be recruited was made. The determination of the correct number of recruitments obviously depends on the outcome of the ongoing negotiations between the European Union and the United Kingdom, and thus on the final type of Brexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u44	Minister, I believe that there are still many scenarios possible. It is good that we are preparing to do so as best we can. One of the scenarios concerns the recruitment of three to four hundred full-time equivalents. Is there any other numbers? I understand this depends on the kind of Brexit. Is it a hard Brexit about three to four hundred full-time equivalents?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u45	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u46	Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u47	Mr President-in-Office, transparency in our current decision-making affects many, and this is being done. The necessary measures have also been taken at European level. A transparency register has been set up both in the European Parliament and in the European Commission to provide citizens with transparency about the contacts between Parliament and the Commission with civil society and business. However, a letter from ECB President Draghi shows that the ECB and its advisory bodies should not comply with the same transparency rules as the European Commission and the European Parliament. Given the current political climate and the recent history of the financial world, it is important to respond to citizens' demands for transparency. In this way, we guarantee citizens' confidence in that institution, and we can also safeguard the independence of the ECB's mandate. Mr Minister, do you follow, first of all, the view that the ECB and its advisory councils need a detailed framework in order to provide the necessary transparency in the development of its decisions and in its contacts with external parties? Secondly, do you think that the current framework to provide the necessary transparency is sufficient, or do you think that this should be deepened further? Thirdly, is there any possibility, in your view, of applying the transparency rules to the European Commission, also to the ECB?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u48	Mr van Peteghem, I do indeed believe that there should be sufficient transparency about the ECB's contacts with external parties and certainly about the exchange of information in that context. This is recognised by the institution itself, as is clear from the letter from the ECB President of 23 January 2018, to which you yourself referred. Transparency should be established within a framework that takes into account the tasks and objectives of the ECB, its independence and its professional secrecy. In recent years, the ECB has taken several initiatives on transparency, including its contacts with external parties. I refer, for example, to the publication of the meetings of the Executive Board members of the ECB on the institution's website, including meetings with external parties. I also attach great importance to the necessary transparency regarding the ECB's contact groups and their interactions with private market players. I would like to point out that the contacts are not intended to seek input or advice in the context of the ECB's regulatory powers and its policy decisions. Moreover, the activities of those groups are limited to the ECB's mandate as a central bank and are therefore independent of the ECB's mandate as a banking supervisory authority, in accordance with the principle of separation of functions. The ECB has already made the necessary efforts to ensure transparency over the contact groups and to develop a framework. For example, the necessary information on membership, meetings, agendas and summaries of the discussions will be published on the website. In this light, I believe that the current framework provides sufficient guarantees of transparency. However, this does not mean, of course, that the aspect must continue to be closely monitored. Finally, the transparency rules adopted by the European Commission are specific rules aimed at the powers and tasks of that institution, in particular throughout the legislative process. Those rules cannot therefore be applied to the ECB, given the specific tasks and objectives of the institution, its independence and its professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u49	Minister, it is important that we pay attention to a sufficiently strong framework, because the demand for transparency is high. I am pleased to hear that you consider that the current instruments are sufficient, even if we should consider whether they should be explored for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u50	Mr President, Minister, in December 2017, the Prime Minister at the One Planet Summit announced that our country would issue green bonds in 2018. You yourself stated at the beginning of February 2018 that the issue of green linear bonds with a maturity of between fifteen and twenty years would take place in the near future. The bond issue would be supervised by the banks Barclays, BNP Paribas Fortis, Crédit Agricole, ING and JP Morgan. BNP Paribas Fortis and Crédit Agricole would have already explained the green bonds to their investors on Thursday 8 February 2018. According to your website, it is expected that between three and five billion euros will initially be collected. As with an ordinary OLO, issues would still follow in the coming years. The first issue would finance ongoing federal expenditure, with the capacity to reach an additional EUR 10 billion in the coming years. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. Firstly, when will the issue take place effectively? What investments will be included? Secondly, what are the strict criteria, according to Prime Minister Michel, that will be used to check whether a project is contributing 'to the transition to a sustainable economy'? Thirdly, what current federal expenditure will finance the first issue? Fourth, can the Committee have the information that investors received from BNP Paribas Fortis and Crédit Agricole on 8 February 2018? Finally, are the bonds intended only for institutional investors? Is there any possibility of extending it to private individuals in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u51	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, your first question concerns the moment of issue. The road show in which the product is presented to potential investors is currently running and will last until Friday 23 February. That means that we can do the issue from 26 February. The exact date will, of course, depend on market conditions and will be chosen under the expert leadership of the Debt Agency at a certain time. I don't have the slightest doubt about the good judgment of doing that placement. I'll take your second and third questions together. The Inter-Ministerial Working Group has drawn up a list of possible projects and expenditures, which can be found in the presentation for investors, available on the website of the Belgian Debt Agency. The projects focus on energy efficiency, renewable energy, environmentally friendly transport, sustainable consumption and production and biodiversity. The working group will make the selection annually under the control of Sustainalytics, which has already given a first positive second opinion. On the information that investors received on 8 February through BNP Paribas and Crédit Agricole, I can say that this information was also made public on 8 February through the website of the Belgian Debt Agency. On that website there is a specific section Green OLO provided. I come to your fourth question. The OLOs are offered to institutional investors who can deliver orders of sufficient size on the day of their issue. The private investor can then buy that OLO on the secondary market through a banking institution. This will also be the case for the green OLO.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u53	Mr Minister, it happens that as a physical person, entrepreneurs acquire only the bare property of a property, while the company buys usufruct for a period of, for example, 20 or 30 years. It is important to determine and update the economic or real value of this usufruct. In practice, different methods are apparently used to appreciate rental income. One of the methods that has been widely used in the past is the Ruysseveldt method. However, this method is now under attack because, according to critics, it can lead to overvalues of usufruct. This would also have been the reason why in 2016 the ruling committee used a stricter formula in some cases to appreciate usufruct. The methodology put forward by the ruling committee in certain individual cases would be better in line with the rental value that the company would otherwise have had to pay. However, practice shows that this method could lead to an over-evaluation of usufruct. According to recent reports in the media, the tax authorities would now use the ruling committee's formula to re-examine split purchases that have been checked and accepted in the past and possibly to make an added value assessment. I have a few questions about this. Minister, how many structures with split purchases of usufruct and bare property are we talking about? Can you give a figure of this for the past few years? Is the new valuation method an autonomous position of the administration? If that were the case, would it not be logical to spread a clear circular on this issue? In your opinion, should the actual value not be taken into account in the valuation of usufruct and should an update not be carried out, taking into account the fluctuating debt interest rate? How many checks have there been since 2016 in relation to split purchases? Will the tax authorities go far back in the past with those checks on previous split purchases? I am referring to the split purchases that have already been checked and accepted by the administration. Will they be checked again? It is also true that registration fees were due and paid. As far as the regions are concerned, therefore, there are certain valuation methods. If there are other federal practices now, then of course there is uncertainty on the ground. How many rulings have been issued since 2016 using the new valuation method?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u54	Unfortunately, Mrs Van Cauter, as far as your first question is concerned, there is no statistical data available. Secondly, the central services of the General Administration of Taxation (AAFisc) have been informed in advance by the Department of Prior Decisions in Tax Matters (DVB) of the method used by him. They did not object at that time either. It is therefore not an autonomous position of that administration. Thirdly, as you may have seen, I have responded through social media channels and clearly indicated that there can be no retroactivity. The new method can only be used for checks after it has been published. A taxable person cannot be expected to apply rules which are not yet known at the time of the transaction. I believe that this is a fairly basic principle. Fourthly, since 2016, the AAFisc has no longer organised a control action specifically related to this subject. However, optional tax audits of usufruct structures are planned in the framework of control actions organised by this administration in 2018 on the costs of companies or the abuse of corporate structures. Fifth, the optional audit assignments referred to in point 4 focus on the situation at the start or end of usufruct in 2015 or 2016. As I have just said, there can be no retroactivity under any circumstances. I repeat that the new method can only be used after it has been published. Sixthly, my administration has informed me that no consultation has yet taken place with the Regions on registration rights to usufruct. As for your seventh and final question, a total of 13 decisions have been made by the DVB since 2016 based on the new valuation method. In addition, three decisions were also made on the basis of another valuation submitted by the applicant, after they were tested against the above-mentioned new valuation method.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think it serves the legal certainty of all those involved. There can be no retroactivity. That makes sense. I will read your answer on the substance. I will also look at how the valuation method works. I understand that it relates mainly to the updating of the real rental value, but I do not think that the stocking is yet finished, Minister. There is also the appreciation of usufruct, for which entrepreneurs and private individuals often rely on sworn treasurers. There's no established method. In Flanders, however, there is a system whereby treasurers on a list can make an estimate that is binding on all parties. Maybe we should consider that at federal level as well. I do not know if that would be a good thing, but it would at least serve legal certainty, because any discussion can be avoided afterwards. I'll take another look at the update. In any case, low interest rates should also have a real impact on the update of the rental value. It is not possible for a low interest rate to necessarily be adjusted in favour of the government. I don't think that's right. If that is in line with reality, I have no problem with that, but if it is not, I will question you further.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u56	Mr Minister, the original Summer Agreement provided for a measure whereby the rental of a property used by a VAT-paying tenant could optionally be subject to the VAT system. The landlord would then be able to rent office spaces with VAT, in order to recover VAT on construction and renovation costs. For budgetary reasons, this measure appears to have been lost, leaving the rental of professional real estate exempt from VAT. What does change is the 10 % rule regarding the VAT rental of storage spaces with associated offices. From 2018, such an associated office may amount to up to 50% of the total surface area. That would be dealt with in circular, but as far as I know, there isn't one yet. In the meantime, a lot of companies are above the old 10 % rule, while they are under the 50 % rule. For them, the situation remains unclear. Mr. Secretary, is there going to be a circular? If so, when will it be published? What are the consequences for companies falling between 10 % and 50 %? Should they apply for a VAT number?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u57	Mrs Wouters, the introduction of the possibility of taxing the rental of immovable property between VAT taxable persons is still the subject of government consultation. Therefore, pending its outcome, it is premature to introduce new rules on the provision of storage space for the storage of goods. In the meantime, the existing rules remain fully applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which shows that the old regime will continue to apply for the time being. We look forward to the new arrangement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u59	Mr President, Minister, on 12 December 2016, following the violent repression of peaceful demonstrations and numerous other human rights violations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), the Council of the European Union imposed a series of targeted sanctions against seven leaders of the Kabila regime's security apparatus - visa ban for the European Union and assets freeze. On 29 May 2017, the European Union added nine names to the list. A total of 16 Congolese officials are subject to sanctions by the European Union. This includes the freezing of their assets. Like your British counterpart who gave this information in response to a question from my colleague Mr Helen Goodman, can you tell me how much the total value of the funds frozen by your services is estimated as part of Belgium's implementation of these European sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to restrictive measures against the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), Regulation No 1183/2005 of 18 July 2005, as last amended on 9 February 2018, imposing certain specific measures against persons acting in violation of the arms embargo imposed on the Democratic Republic of the Congo, imposes a freezing of funds on 35 persons and nine entities targeted by the UN and on 12 persons targeted by the European Union. Article 7 of that Regulation specifies that any information provided or received under the freeze shall be used solely for the purposes for which it was provided or received. Three accounts on behalf of two persons were frozen in two financial institutions, for a total amount of €27,004.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u61	Minister, thank you. For my understanding, these are three accounts on behalf of two people and this concerns Belgium. No other Congolese national has been punished under these European provisions. These amounts are significantly less than the amounts frozen in Great Britain, i.e. a total of 580,000 pounds. In this case, this is a more modest amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u62	[[Mr. Minister, section 207, paragraph 7 of the Income Tax Code (IRC) states that any of these deductions or offsets with the loss of the taxable period may not be made on the part of the result that derives from abnormal or voluntary benefits referred to in section 79, or on the financial or any kind of benefits received referred to in section 53, 24°, or on the basis of the special separate contribution established on expenses or benefits of any kind not justified, in accordance with section 219, or on the part of the profits that are allocated to the expenses referred to in section 198, § 1, 9°, 9° bis and 12°, or on the part of the profits derived from the non-compliance with section 194, § 2, paragraph 4 and the application of section 194quater, § 4, or on the dividends referred to in section 219ter, or on the part of the result that is the subject of a correction of the declaration referred to in section 346 or of an ex officio taxation referred to in section 194quater, § 4, or on the dividends referred to in section 219ter, or on the part of the result that is subject to a correction of the declaration referred to in section 346 or of an ex officio taxation referred to the amount of the income referred to in the last section 351 for an increase in accordance to a percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the tax referred to the tax referred to]] Article 219 of the CIR, for its part, states that a separate contribution shall be established in respect of the expenditure referred to in Article 57 and the benefits of any kind referred to in the second paragraph of Article 31(2) and the second paragraph of Article 32(2), which are not justified by the production of individual sheets and a summary statement, as well as by reason of the hidden profits which are not included in the assets of the company and the financial benefits or of any kind referred to in Article 53, 24°. Article 219, paragraph 1, states that a separate assessment may be made: (a) in respect of the expenditure referred to in Article 57 of the CIR which has not been justified by the production of sheets 281 and 325; (b) because of the advantages of any kind referred to in Article 57 of the CIR which have not been justified by the production of sheets 281 and 325; (c) because of the hidden profits which are not found among the elements of the heritage. Article 207(7) at the level of the words "on the basis of the special separate contribution established on expenditure or benefits of any unwarranted nature, in accordance with Article 219" applies only to the first two cases mentioned above. On the other hand, hidden profits which are the subject of a separate assessment are not mentioned in Article 207(7). Should it be inferred that, on the separate assessment of hidden profits, a deduction of both losses incurred during the taxable period and prior losses is possible? Mr President and Mr Minister, thank you for allowing me to ask you this technical question. We are at the heart of the tax system of secret commissions. From the point of view of the fight against tax fraud, beyond its technicality, this question seems essential to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u63	Mr Laaouej, as his name indicates, this assessment is separate from ordinary corporate tax and its taxable basis is in principle governed only by the provisions of Article 219 CIR 92. However, I have instructed my administration to verify the scope of the provisions of Article 207 of the same Code and, if necessary, to make a proposal for the adaptation of this legal text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u64	Mr. Chair, I understand the minister's response that he agrees with us that there is an ambiguity that is most certainly due to the wording of section 207 in its current configuration and that it intends to provide an answer or a solution in the near future. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u65	Of which act, Mr. President. We will come back to see where that is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u66	Mr President, I had tabled two other questions, but apparently they were not on the agenda. One of them concerned the Belgian Investment Company (SBI) and tended to see the status of the situation after the tax investigation. We had a debate on this, and I therefore think that we could ask for follow-up. The other question concerned the figures relating to the files opened by the Special Tax Inspectorate in the Panama and Paradise Papers. Strangely enough, these issues have not been included despite the respect of deadlines and forms. I tabled them this week, within the required time frame. Didn't you get anything? However, they were sent to the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u67	We'll check it out. If a question is introduced on Monday, it is still noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u68	All right. Mr President, Minister, I shall now turn to my question on the agenda. The statement of reasons for the law of 25 December 2017 reforming corporate tax provides that, in order to avoid the early establishment of provisions, i.e. prior to the reduction of the corporate tax tariff, with a view to subject subsequent resumptions to a lower nominal tax rate, the resumption of provisions is subject to a rate of 33.99% or 29.58% depending on whether the provisions were made either at the latest for a taxable period that relates to the 2018 tax year or at the latest for a taxable period that relates to the 2019 and 2020 tax years. The Standard Chart of Accounts provides for three accounts relating to provisions for exceptional risks and expenses, namely, accounts 6620 for endowments, 6621 for uses and 762 for recoveries of these provisions. For other provisions (accounts 635 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations, 636 Provisions for major repairs and 637 Provisions for other risks and expenses), the Standard Chart of Accounts provides for two sub-accounts for each of these accounts: a sub-account "dotations" and a sub-account "use and recovery". Minister, could you confirm to me that the amounts eligible for new section 217/1 are those that will be credited to accounts 762, 6351 (excluding the amount in respect of use), 7361 (excluding the amount in respect of use) and 6371 (excluding the amount in respect of use)? Could you also explain how the new Article 217/1 should be applied, assuming that the provision constituted - for example, in the 2020 tax year - is subject to a recovery of, for example, EUR 20 000 in a subsequent tax year and that the taxable basis for that tax year after the 14 transactions is: (a) a positive amount of EUR 4 000; (b) a negative amount of EUR 9 000; (c) a negative amount of EUR 48 000? These are technical issues, but it is a matter of being precise about one of the compensatory measures to ensure the budgetary neutrality of the corporate tax reform and an "anti-abuse" measure, if I may say so. Indeed, people should not anticipate changes in the tax system of provisions and make provisions before the rate decline comes into effect. The temptation to deduct at a high rate of 33.99% before reform should be avoided, followed by a resumption of provision at the lower new rate, thus allowing a gain on both sides!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u69	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, this is a long question. My answer will be quite condensed. The company which has carried out the accounting or tax recovery and whose tax base is declared to be EUR 4 000 should pay a tax calculated on it at the rate of 29.58 %. It will not be liable to any tax if the tax base declared is zero or negative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic825x.u70	Minister, this means that there is no tax in assumptions b and c. We will verify that. I also asked you to confirm or overrule the information that the amounts eligible for new Article 2017/1 are those credited to Accounts 762, 63-51, 73-61 and 73-71. You didn't answer me. If you do not have the answer, I suggest that you repeat a question on this subject. Of which act, Mr. President.
