ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u2	Colleagues, I have just received a call from colleague Dirk Van Mechelen, who has reported the death of former colleague Jacky Buchmann, who many of us have known. Then We shall give him due thanks. You will also have noticed that we have distributed on the bench the English version of the brochure on the activities of the Commission of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks. As you know, this is something we have made at the request of many foreign guests who are asking for an English-language report on the work of the committee chaired by Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u3	We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate to sit in replacement of Mr.Eric Massin, who resigned on May 3, 2018. We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mr Eric Massin, who resigned on 3 May 2018. The alternate is Mr. Olivier Henry, the first alternate in the electoral district of Hainaut. The successor who will replace him is Mr Olivier Henry, the first successor to the Hainaut constituency. Mr. Olivier Henry's powers were validated in our June 19, 2014 session. Mr Olivier Henry's credentials were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te leven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mr. Olivier Henry to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Olivier Henry to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u4	Mr. Olivier Henry will be a member of the French linguistic group. Mr Olivier Henry will be part of the French language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u5	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 May 2018, I propose: - to avoid the following point: the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure with a view to introducing the special method of investigation for civil infiltration, Nos 2940/1 to 8; - to be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: • the bill (Mr Brecht Vermeulen) amending the law of 21 December 1998 on safety at football matches, Nos 2475/1 to 11; • the bill (Mrs Peter De Roover, Ahmed Laaouej, David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael, Ms Meryame Kitrir, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Ms Catherine Fonck) amending the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, Nos 3104/1 to 4; • an application for an opinion to the Supreme Court of Justice. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 May 2018, I propose: - delete the following point: the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Investigation with a view to introducing the specific method of seeking civil infiltration, Nos. 2940/1 to 8; - to include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: • the proposal for a law (Mr Brecht Vermeulen) amending the Act of 21 December 1998 on security during football matches, Nos. 2475/1 to 11; • the proposal for a law (MM. Peter De Roover, Ahmed Laaouej, David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten and Patrick Dewael, Ms Meryame Kitir, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Ms Catherine Fonck) amending the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, Nos. 3104/1 to 4; • a request for an opinion from the Supreme Council of Justice. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u6	Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the European Commission published its country report on our budgetary situation, always a moment to look forward to, because after that, the budgetary discussions on budgetary control begin here in Parliament. In the meantime, we have known for a number of years that the European Commission can be critical and rightly critical of the budgetary situation of our Member States. For Belgium, too, the European Commission is again rightly critical today. In the meantime, we have a number of concerns about our budgetary situation. Firstly, we must continue to work on the decline in our public debt. Secondly, our expenditure must be controlled. Thirdly, the agreements reached on the government's revenue and clean-up must be achieved. Think of the redesign of the government or the caiman tax. Fourthly, the budgetary implications of our fiscal reforms, such as corporate tax reform and the tax shift, are still uncertain. The CD&V Group calls for the government to work in the coming months on the budgetary path set with Europe towards that budgetary balance, which was abandoned during the current legislature and postponed until 2020. We therefore call for the necessary measures to be taken in the coming months. I am quite right to support this, and I fully support it. The current government has been working on a strong growth and reform agenda since it took office. After all, that pays off. We note that 260,000 additional jobs have been added during the current legislative period. We have also worked on increasing our competitiveness, a very important challenge for the current federal government. The purchasing power of the people has also increased, especially for the category of the lowest wages. We therefore note that the growth and reform agenda certainly pays off. Minister, I would ask you to make sure that the growth agenda continues in the coming months. Yesterday, we heard from KBC that if there was a threat of an adjustment in economic growth, there would be an adjustment down by 0.3% of GDP, which would have a huge impact on budgetary efforts. Mr President, I would just like to point out that the European Commission's country report also focuses on reducing prices in retail and supermarkets, on increasing competitiveness and on working on the labour cut. There is a risk of labour shortages and additional efforts still need to be made for a number of groups of opportunities. That is why I have the following questions for you. How do you and the government evaluate the European Commission's country report? What additional efforts under your important competences in the field of Work and Economy do you see to strengthen the growth engine?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u7	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, as every year, we received the country report. It was certainly not all bad and bad, because we were praised for the reforms in the areas of pensions, the labour market and health care. Minister, I know that it has not always been easy for your supporters and certainly for the trade union wing to accept everything that has been put forward by the liberal-inspired parties in recent years, but it has been successful. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it yielded for everyone, not just the happy few. The tax shift is the largest tax reduction for the lowest wages in years. Everyone in the government should defend it, and the opposition should, in fact, be the most social tax reform we have implemented for years. It is working, because the number of jobs and vacancies is rising and unemployment is falling. This also brings about a nice saving in the Department of Work, because on account of the RVA there are far fewer benefits to be paid. However, a major effort is still needed to achieve a balanced budget by 2020. Everyone will have to make a tooth for that, across all governments. In our country, all governments together are still 4% more expensive than the Dutch government to carry out the same tasks. So we must all work to make the government more efficient and to implement the redesign in our own organisation. There are still tasks to be done in the field of work. Belgian Prime Minister Borsus made it clear today that on average the rate of activity in Belgium is still 10% lower than in the Netherlands. There is therefore also work to be done in this area across all governments, including at the federal level. Several measures in the federal government agreement have not yet been implemented. The bridge pension reform was based on the demand of the social dialogue. I also mention the tension between pay and seniority, which has been scientifically proven to lead to fewer older people working in our labour market. Minister, we are facing important municipal elections. However, I would ask you, along with the other members of the government, not to allow your agenda to be determined. Minister, what opportunities do you see for continuing the reforms, in response to Europe's criticism? What are you planning, along with your colleagues in the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u8	Let me say something which will be very good for your constituents, Mr Lachaert, also for my constituents, who are probably the same. Firstly, as Mrs Smaers pointed out, the Commission has not stated so long ago that it expects an increase of 1.8 % for 2018, while it would fall to 1.7 % in 2019. The National Bank confirms that. The VBO even predicted that there would be a growth of 2% by 2018. If the VBO is a little too optimistic, let me put it in the middle. In any case, we are well aware of these growth rates. KBC recently said that growth might fall to 1.6 %, because, according to KBC, the international climate could deteriorate somewhat and growth might need to be adjusted downwards for all countries. I hope that the international trade environment remains positive despite the weakening. I come to an important point that I have already made here: growth is very important, but the intensity of employment of growth is even more important. In that respect, we score very well. We are among the best in Europe. Our growth is what she is. We have had discussions in the past about the fact that others have higher growth, but the labour intensity of our growth is very important and it is good. For an economic growth of 1%, we note a job creation of 1.1 %. In the past, an economic growth of 3.5 % was needed for the same number of jobs created. Secondly, and this brings me to the essence, I call for a growth agenda, in the next few weeks and months, until May 2019, when this legislative period expires. This growth agenda needs to address a number of issues. Mrs Smaers rightly referred to the obstacles to competition. We've been investigating inflation in the service sector. In this respect, decisions were taken, especially in the telecommunications sector, by Minister De Croo. There's also the Price Observatory. We have been working with the distribution to remove a number of handicaps, in particular territorial supply restrictions. We will have further discussions on this at Benelux and Europe level. Secondly, we must remove the bottlenecks and the efficacy paradox as soon as possible. Mr Lachaert, you are right. Your colleague said that last week. Belgium has an efficacy level of 68.5 %. We need to get above 73 percent. At the same time, we cannot solve many open vacancies, especially for bottleneck professions. We must resolve this paradox as quickly as possible. I myself wrote to the Group of Ten last week asking them to take an initiative. We discussed this with the Prime Minister next week at the Consultative Committee with the Länder. In addition to the initiatives you mentioned, there are still a lot of things in progress that require a lot of energy. If we are to overcome the paradox of the low level of activity versus the open vacancies, we must reflect on how we use training funds, what measures we can take in relation to the risk groups and start-ups jobs, what fiscal incentives we can take, for which Wallonia argues, and what positive actions under the 2007 anti-discrimination law we can put in place. Finally, there is the investment pact, amounting to 60 billion additional investments, in which the Prime Minister has already invested a lot of energy. I trust that we will be able to move forward with the majority and the opposition. These are elements of the growth agenda, on which we must work decisively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u9	Thank you, Mr Vice Prime Minister, for your reply. Our country certainly needs growth. I therefore welcome your additional commitment to the growth agenda for the last year of the legislature, so that the growth engine does not weaken. You have raised a number of points, such as the shortage of labour and the need for additional activation of employment groups. I think it is important to tackle inflation and the too high prices that have to go down. I would once again encourage you to use the last year usefully for the budget and the growth agenda. The government has exactly another year. Let's use the time usefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u10	I can only endorse Mrs Smaers: we must use the year ahead very usefully. Not only must we go door to door in the campaign; we must continue to work here. You can count on our group to continue to make proposals for the labour market. Our labour market remains fairly rigid in an international context in various areas, which does not make it easy to respond to new developments in society, such as digitisation or new jobs. There is a real mismatch between the cut in the labour market and the number of workers at risk of losing their jobs or not having a job. You are quite right to refer to training, but we really need to be able to involve employers so that they can train their own staff, regardless of any training obligation. Let me give you the example of a proposal I made. In my view, employers themselves want to invest extra to train employees for bottleneck jobs if they are sure that that staff member will continue to work with them for a while. I call for a reform in this area. Either way, you can count on me. I will be putting on the table with my group many more reforms in the coming period. We hope that an additional cartouche can be provided during the budget negotiations in order to complete the course in beauty during the last year of the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u11	Mr Vice Prime Minister, we heard from the media that you are rather sceptical about the study to calculate the costs of migration. The same goes for your chairman Wouter Beke. However, you are Deputy Prime Minister and your opinion is therefore very important. If your opinion differs from that of the other members of the government, then it is all the more interesting. Mr Vice Prime Minister, you know that not everything in this country is homogeneously split. This means that there are a lot of powers and responsibilities in the Länder. As a former Prime Minister, you will only be able to confirm that. Do you think that the failing integration policy should also be included in this study? If we look at the number of immigrants working here, our score is at the lowest in all of Europe. If we look at the representation of immigrants in higher education, then we score below average. There are problems, however, mainly at the federal level. My question then is what we will all charge. What would you say would be in that, Minister? There's something like the legal influx. We have a family reunification of non-EU citizens of 14 000 people per year. Are we looking at migration policy? Are we also considering the migration policy of the Michel Government? After all, we have an influx which is 7 % higher. Are we also looking at the expulsion policy? Are you taking that into account in your calculations? Do you want this aspect to be included? Only 20% of the expulsion orders are actually executed. There are also the illegals. However, we can draw the conclusion that these costs will be very difficult to calculate. I believe that some of your colleagues already know that cost. After all, we see that some of them in Marrakech have reached an agreement to promote legal migration between Europe and West and Central Africa. Minister, what is your position on this study? Are you in favour or against? Do you think they're useful? Do you just consider this a stunt of one of your coalition partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, a general policy must be backed up by objective facts. No one's gonna argue with that. Knowing is measuring. That one also in important, sensitive files... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u13	You can turn that around, too, if that's what you like. Both are good, but that is not the essence of my speech. In this dossier, my colleague, Minister Van Overtveldt, sent a letter to the National Bank on 5 April asking to investigate a number of cases. I was informed of this last week, together with a number of other colleagues. A very comprehensive study was requested on family reunification, asylum, regularisation, study, labour and so on. Studies may be made, certainly by the National Bank, but first the question arises as to whether there are studies that have already been quantified. Or are studies already in progress? As far as the latter is concerned, the High Council for Employment is already working on the labour market and integration. In addition, interesting studies were already carried out in 2016 by the National Bank and other bodies, even at a higher level. According to the information I have at my disposal, the National Bank replied to that letter that it is not so obvious to investigate all this. If she has to look at everything in such detail, then the Privacy Commission must be taken into account and, moreover, the National Bank's database is not so complete that it can provide all this. We now need to look at which elements of this study we are investigating. I asked my colleague, Mr Van Overtveldt, whether we could not look at this together, especially as regards the labour market and a number of other areas, before a mandate was given to the National Bank. After all, he also asked for a breakdown by region, so very detailed. That's what's gonna happen. The question is what relevant information we still need for the policy and what relevant information the National Bank can provide. I assume that the results of that study will be used for policy purposes and for nothing else.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u14	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u15	Thank you for your reply, Minister. From the sound of it, Mr Calvo, after some calculations made by the Minister for Labour, I have just heard. Measuring is knowing, Minister. I am glad to hear that, because we find such a study very useful, but the most important thing is, of course, the methodology used. You have rightly made a number of comments on this. It is also very important for the public to be fully informed about the results of that study afterwards, because it is entitled to information. That information doesn't always get to the people. At present, she often receives complete disinformation. Good news is thriving and coming up in the media and on Twitter. The expulsion of illegal criminals is all over the news. That news is true, because in 2017, 283 were deported. Chapeau! What is not seen, however, is the figures for the family reunification of non-EU citizens or the total influx, i.e. 135 000 people per year. I'm not talking about illegals. I agree with you, Minister, if you say measuring is knowing. It is very important that everything is charged and presented to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u16	Minister, you are part of a government that is very hard on the vulnerable and very soft on the rich. Yesterday, that proved to be the case again with the news about the impact tax. If you have half a million euros in your account, you will have to pay a charge of 0.15 percent. You and your party fought hard for this because you felt that the strongest should bear the heavy burden, because in the meantime people have had to pay one tax increase after another and they have had to feel savings after another. What does the impact tax show? The rich have taken away their large shares from their securities account and converted into registered shares. They did that because they would not have to pay the tax. The conclusion, Minister, is that the securities tax, on which you were so proud, a CD&V trophy, will have absolutely no effect. A warned man is worth two, but you can't say you weren't warned. The Council of State has said twice that if you do not close that back door, you will not be carrying out any securities tax. We had tabled an amendment to that effect. We supported you in your story, provided that the majority closed the loopholes. You laughed at us and voted away the amendment. Last year after the Summer chord, you tweeted very proudly: "All the back gates are boarded up." Today it turns out to be something else. What's your reaction to that? The securities tax should raise 254 million, but how will you ensure that these revenues are achieved if everyone avoids the tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u17	Mrs Kitir, I assume that your question is based on an article published in a quality newspaper. Like all newspapers produced by humans, this newspaper can sometimes provide incomplete information. Indeed, what is not mentioned in the article is that the law provides for a special anti-abuse provision whereby the conversion of securities accounts to shares in name from 9 December 2017 will also be taxed at 0.15 %, albeit once. In addition, as one speaks of rich Belgian families, all names will be known to Finance. It is, among other things, in the context of the debate that we have introduced this anti-legal abuse measure and that tax will have to be paid. It is also important to know that the tax authorities will have the names of those involved. It is important for the administration of finance to follow this very closely. It must ensure that the anti-legal abuse measure is implemented and that the persons concerned pay the tax. I have been assured by Mr Van Overtveldt that the administration will make sufficient efforts to achieve this in practice. As far as the proceeds are concerned, Mr Kitir, you know what we have entered in the budget. I assume that every effort will be made to achieve this return. I think it is premature to say that we will not be able to achieve this result, referring to the proceeds of other taxes. Firstly, we must ensure that this tax is applied correctly. Secondly, we must ensure that the anti-legal abuse measure is applied to those who believe that they can fully evade the tax. Thirdly, we will later find out what the proceeds will be from this measure. It's too early for that now. I believe that there are currently no obvious reasons to assume that the amount envisaged will not be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u18	Mr Minister, I honestly do not understand. You have fought for the introduction of the securities tax. Now it turns out that it will have no effect because everyone uses a back door, you say that this is not a bad thing, since they will pay that tax for one year. In other words, you prefer everyone to use that back door and then pay the tax once, rather than paying a tax every year on their securities account. Mr Minister, since you decided to increase VAT on electricity from 6% to 21%, people pay for it every month. Every month! When it comes to the rich, they are allowed to pay 0.15 % once. Secondly, I am not going to call you naive, Minister, but I have heard you say several times that it will be okay, that it is too premature, that you believe that we must have confidence. We have all seen that love in this government is not so strong. You're lucky to keep laughing. You also said about the speculative tax that it was going to be all right, but it has now been abolished. The caiman tax was also going to be okay, which only brought up 1% of what it should have paid for. Now you have a security tax that you already know will have no effect. And yet you keep smiling. I blame you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u19	Minister, two-year-old Mawda was shot dead. His parents had fled the war but it was in a peaceful country, ours, that the drama was played. Losing a child is certainly the most horrible thing. Losing a child in the circumstances of this case is untold. I will not question you about the facts as the investigation is under way. But beyond and around the facts, there are still questions that deserve to be answered now. First, the different versions of the parquet. On the first day, the prosecution said: "The girl did not die as a result of gunshots by the police. There were no gunshot wounds." On the second day, the prosecution continues its misinformation: "It is not excluded that this bullet was fired by a police officer or by one of the people who were in the escaped van". While we already knew, at that time, that no weapon was on the vehicle. The prosecution clearly provided false information probably to protect the police. What do you intend to do as Minister of Justice? Secondly, we have witnessed this surreal scene: policemen continue on the highway, for 60 kilometres, this van, fire on the van under circumstances that the investigation will have to clarify and, 24 hours later, release the people who were in the van. The witnesses were therefore released. Generally, witnesses are forced to remain in the territory, but here they have been ordered to leave. How do you explain such an incomprehensible order, minister? Thirdly, the police officer who fired still appears to be at large, perhaps even on duty. Is there not a risk to the investigation of the collusion of witnesses, in particular? How do you explain that, minister? In short, minister, there is evidence of a state attempt to stifle a case or even sabotage an investigation. When I say the state, it may mean the prosecutor's office, the police, the government. As Minister of Justice, will you work to ensure that justice is done to the victims? Or are you going to work to stifle the case as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u20	Mr Van Hees, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to express my deepest condolences to the family of little Mawda. I can confirm that the Mons Public Prosecutor's Office had a meeting with the parents on Tuesday, May 22, at 11:00 a.m. This interview went well. I quote the Attorney General of Mons: "The parents were assured that the whole truth would be made about the circumstances in which their child died. An explanation of the procedure was provided and all of their questions and those of the lawyers were answered. On the same day, the parents and their lawyers were able to meet the investigating judge in charge of the case in the afternoon. Were present at the meeting with the parents, the attorney general of Mons, the prosecutor of the King of Mons, the substitute guard on the night of the events, a representative of the house of justice of Mons and a representative of the reception to the victims." Given the secrecy of the investigation, I cannot go into the details. I can confirm, however, on behalf of the prosecution, that the autopsy did reveal that Mawda was hit by a bullet in the brain. The investigation is currently determining the circumstances under which the bullet was fired. The investigating judge entrusted the investigative services of Committee P with the task of analysing this aspect of the investigation. That's how I get to your three questions, Mr. Van Hees. As for your first question, it was brought to my knowledge that the Deputy Attorney of the King was first informed that the death was due to a head trauma, which he subsequently communicated. The following morning, the same public prosecutor, seeking full transparency, requested an autopsy after which it appeared that the bullet was indeed the cause of death. The Department of Public Prosecutions is aware that the first information was disseminated too quickly and, as Minister of Justice, I would like to apologize for that. However, the objective has never been to conceal any information, proof of this is that the prosecutor's office itself requested an autopsy and appointed an investigating judge. As for your second question, many people complain that all the transmigrants were released after the hearing. Since virtually no information could be provided on the identity of smugglers during the hearing of all persons, the Prosecutor's Office informs me that the investigating judge, autonomous and independent, decided not to make any arrests because there was no serious evidence of guilt. As for your third question, it is clear that the officer in question was questioned by the investigating judge. Finally, the lack of confirmation of arrests does not prevent the prosecution from summoning these individuals to appear at a later date, nor does it prevent Mawda's parents from filing a civil suit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u21	Minister, your answers seem to me to be insufficient. You tell us that the prosecutor's office was misinformed and that he spoke too quickly. Family lawyers have serious doubts about this version. You're talking about the witnesses who were released. Why was an order issued to them to leave the territory? Generally, witnesses are questioned and then told to stay in the country. But here, we do the opposite! It's totally incomprehensible. The policeman was interrogated. I guess in such an investigation, we're not limited to an interrogation. The question of the collusion of witnesses really arises. There is a real feeling that there is a willingness to manipulate the investigation, manipulate the facts and postpone all explanations to later on the pretext that the investigation is under way. It's a little easy. Minister, we will see if justice will really be done in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about the figures I have just received from you. These figures indicate that the number of Europeans receiving a Belgian sickness or invalidity benefit has risen by about 27%. In 2012, there were some 33 000 people who received such benefits, 41 000 in 2016, and God knows how many there are today. When we look at the nationalities behind these figures, things still stand out. I am very sorry, but one cannot go beyond Eastern Europe: Bulgaria +172 %, Romania +224 % and Hungary +245 %. Colleagues, we have great social security, but she is also vulnerable. Moreover, the thresholds created by Europe to gain access to the social security of the Member States are not very high. In principle, it is perfectly possible, as a foreigner, who has worked sufficient days within the reference period, to have access to our sickness and invalidity benefits after only one day's work in Belgium. A few years ago, there was a Dutch case in which a large fraud network was exposed. All these signals have to light up the flashing lights. I therefore have a number of specific questions. Do we have a view and figures on the working incompetence attested by Belgian doctors, on the one hand, and by foreign doctors, on the other? Do we have figures on inspections carried out by the inspection services on people's working incompetence? Do we have figures on foreign social inspection services? What steps will the government take to reverse these figures? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u23	Mr President, Mr Raskin, Europe has brought us, among other things, the free movement of persons, one of the foundations of the European Union. This is being used by our citizens, but also by other citizens, of course. Nevertheless, abuses in social security cannot be allowed. We are tackling fraud and abuse strongly. A social fraud hotline was set up to report suspicions of abuse. Indeed, figures show that in recent years there has been a marked increase in the number of Eastern European workers moving into our country. We are talking about the period 2004-2019. This is mainly about Poland, Bulgarians and Romanians coming to work here. Many work in construction, where there are many jobs that are difficult to fill. This means that they also pay social contributions and taxes here. With these contributions they are building rights, just as we would build rights if we were to work there. You say that you can already get a sickness and invalidity allowance here if you have worked here for one day. That's not true. This government, of which your party is a member, has just extended the waiting period for sickness and invalidity benefits from six months to one year. The opposition knows that very well, because I have seen Mrs Kitir nodding. We have also adjusted the period during which the benefit is calculated, precisely in order not to be abused there. Disabled persons and all sick persons are checked by data mining and data matching by the inspection services of the RIZIV. We are continuing the fight against social fraud and therefore benefit fraud. We are achieving results, in 2014 for 41 million, in 2017 for 94 million. It is also a priority in the policy of my colleague Philippe De Backer. At European level, he is also involved in strengthening social security schemes to combat benefit tourism.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u24	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. It is true that administrative checks have been stepped up. There are also results on this. We have also had an exchange of views with your colleague, Mr De Backer. However, the figures I have received are not entirely proportional to the figures of the natural increase in the number of people employed here in the construction sector and in other sectors. This is also the ambition that we share, and we should be able to do something about it in the fight against social fraud, including in the control. Sources at the RIZIV confirm to me that the control of incapacity for work is not carried out through the social inspection service of the RIZIV, but only through the counsellor of the mutuality. We will have to look into that carefully. Those who are summoned must not identify themselves there. In other words, one can send someone else. I could, for example, send Mr Van der Donkt, who has the same hairdresser as me. Cooperation with the European Member States is also not always easy. One is sometimes confronted with an explanation, whether or not on honour. People from here are strictly controlled on the basis of all the data that are kept very strictly here. So let us together ensure, Madam Minister, that we keep sickness and invalidity insurance at a low threshold, so that everyone who needs it can get in, but let us also ensure that the so-called Romanian ramsack on our social security cannot take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u25	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the management of the delicate pension issue requires a clear word, commitments made, a concern for justice for everyone and, above all, for everyone, for consultation, but also for sufficient resources. That is what we call, week after week, from this rostrum. After tightening the conditions for access to the pension, removing the possibility of credit-time, extending the career of workers, it is necessary to take into account the tenability of each function and to allow workers in difficult jobs to gain access to the pension more quickly. It appears that a partial pre-agreement has been reached on this subject with representatives of the civil service workers. However, I will keep myself from premature enthusiasm. Indeed, partners of the majority such as the N-VA and the Open Vld have expressed less enthusiasm than you on this agreement. One might wonder if they want your government to move towards more social justice, because the budget envelope on the table is ridiculously low compared to the stakes. Very specific questions remain about the burden of teachers and the possibility that the emotional burden alone will allow for recognition of penitibility. These would be differentiated conditions for access to the pension. Apparently, you're refusing the union application. The trade unions ask to add to this agreement the list of functions already circulating. Moreover, there is, at this time, no agreement with the private sector and the self-employed. Of course, there is no reason why a public service nurse should see her work as difficult and that this is not the case for an independent or privately employed nurse. Many questions remain. Do you agree or don't agree? Yeah, maybe, a little? Minister Bacquelaine's agreement, or government-wide agreement? With what budget and what consequences over time on career duration? What answers can be given to teachers who may only be recognized as emotionally burdensome? What about the private sector and the self-employed? Minister, the workers deserve clear answers from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u26	Minister, on 30 March the government reached an agreement on the heavy professions. Although the details had not been fully discussed and there was no list yet, you were still able to negotiate the agreement with the social partners. Last night we were informed that there would be an agreement with two of the government trade unions on the heavy professions. That was yesterday, Minister. We congratulate you on the agreement you have reached. You can see that action and social dialogue can really pay off. Today, however, we note that two government parties have already said that there is no agreement. More than that, they say the chord would be fake news. Minister, one of the problems with your reform is the uncertainty of the people. I'm not sure you realize that. People don't know when to retire. They don't know how much pension they're gonna get. Especially with regard to the heavy professions, there is uncertainty. That's already dragging on the entire legislature. The pensionable age of 67 years has been introduced almost immediately. We had to wait until now for the system for the heavy-duty professions associated with it. There was a small agreement with the public services, but it turns out that there is no agreement. First of all, can you confirm that there is an agreement on the heavy professions in the public services? Secondly, can you confirm that you had received a consent and a power of attorney from the government to start negotiations with the social partners? Thirdly, last but not least, can you explain the broad lines of the agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u27	Minister, this morning I heard you welcome the agreement with the public sector on arduous trades, which is supported by two unions. A list is now available, as it circulates on all information sites. However, as early as this morning, the agreement was flinched by half of your government. Indeed, two parties of your majority - the Open Vld and the N-VA, not to name them - immediately denounced it. In principle, a meeting was scheduled at 3:00 p.m., with a view to having the list of arduous occupations reviewed by a working group. But it was cancelled. It is obviously impossible not to relate to the statements of your partners. Minister, do you confirm the existence of an agreement that binds the government? If I use this expression, it's because I couldn't imagine the opposite. It is the Prime Minister who chairs Committee A. Secondly, what is the content of this agreement? Trust and mutual respect, as well as commitments and agreements, are at stake. The opposite is true today, given the posture displayed by your partners and their shock statements. What exactly is the situation? Finally, what about the private sector? Is the government committed to promoting progress? Similarly, does it undertake to treat private employees and self-employed persons in jobs similar to those listed in the list of arduous occupations in the public sector in the same way?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u28	Mr President, Minister, yesterday the trade unions in the Committee A declared their agreement to the draft law on the heavy-duty professions, which contains a gradual abolition of the favourable pension regimes, such as for SNCB, the army and some other civil servants. That is a very good thing, because these outdated privileges are no longer explained today and are also at odds with the reality that everyone has to work longer to keep pensions affordable in the future. In addition, both trade unions and yourself state that there is already an agreement on a concrete list of heavy-duty professions. This surprises us because such a list has never been presented, let alone discussed, in the Committee A or with your coalition partners in the government. The fact that you, as a competent minister, are talking to the trade unions is more than right, and that is part of your job. However, to declare immediately that there is an agreement without your coalition partners having only seen the text seems to us bizarre and, to put it mildly, premature. Moreover, and that is much worse, the recent list that we have seen was distributed this afternoon by the ACV................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is estimated that almost half of the statutory staff would be covered by a heavy occupation. That is problematic, because with such a comprehensive list, we think it is simply impossible to stay within the budgetary envelope set by the government, while at the same time avoiding people from losing their pension by starting from a heavy occupation earlier and avoiding the average exit age generally falling. However, the three conditions were explicitly laid down by the government in order to reach an agreement. Minister, can you confirm that the so-called list of heavy-duty professions is only a preliminary result of the discussion between you and the trade unions, and that there is no agreement at all within the government? Do you believe that the outcome of the discussions meets the three conditions agreed by the government? In your opinion, is the comprehensive list applicable to the private sector, without this leading to budgetary derailments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u29	Mr President, Minister, as Mrs Temmerman has just said, you have been given a mandate by the government to negotiate with the social partners an agreement on the heavy professions, to develop criteria and to establish a concrete arrangement for people with a heavy occupation, so that they would have to work a little less time. You have succeeded, perhaps against the expectations of many, because it is not evident. You have succeeded in reaching an agreement and we congratulate you on that. We would also like to extend those congratulations to the Prime Minister, who is chairing the Committee, and to the trade unions, who have stuck their necks in order to ensure that there is an agreement and a settlement for the heavy professions. We would also like to congratulate them on this, because it is not obvious to ensure, on the one hand, that people with a heavy occupation are honored and, on the other hand, that for those who today meet the criteria of a heavy occupation this will be calculated in a different way than in the past through the calculation of the tantiemes. Everyone will work longer, including those with a heavy occupation. Minister, you have shown that you have the courage. The trade unions have shown that. The social dialogue has worked because they have reached an agreement together. We think that's important. What are the main lines? People with a heavy occupation will be able to retire earlier, but not before the age of 60. There are also guarantees that people who had already built up a backpack through the tantièmes will not lose that. Anyone who has a heavy occupation within the government will be treated in the same way, whether they are employed as contractual, temporary or permanent employees. A nurse working in an OCMW hospital will be treated in the same way in the heavy-duty occupation scheme, regardless of whether she is contracted or permanently appointed. Important hurdles have been taken today in a very delicate dossier and criteria and conditions have been laid down, but the last hurdles have yet to be taken. We are prepared to take those last hurdles, but I do not have the impression that everyone is prepared to do so. We are counting on you to convince everyone that it takes courage to take decisions, including on the heavy professions, and in this way to return the certainty we are all talking about to the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u30	Mr President, Minister, yesterday in the media an agreement was announced on the question of penitibility and I said to myself "finally"! I thought to myself "finally" even if this measure is only a restorative measure, partially restorative of the "law 67" and that it is taking it from one pocket to put in the other. Yeah, but who's this deal with? What was transferred to get an agreement in one afternoon, at the beginning of the evening? Today, I am concerned and interrogative in view of the statements of each other and the news in the press. Uncertainty is greatest about the reality of this agreement, about the modalities of this negotiation at which some would have had the list and others not. Today, there are also statements in the press of your majority partners, which creates a real cacophony within the government: the N-VA, the Open Vld. We'll hear from our colleague in a moment. Minister, because of your lack of transparency, you have created the most complete blur. I now ask you to be transparent here in front of us. Our fellow citizens are worried and deserve clear answers. Is there an agreement, yes or no, on a list of difficult jobs or jobs? How has social dialogue been organised? Why did some partners have the list and others did not? Have the federated entities adhered to your proposal? What guarantees can you give on the government's approval of this agreement? If the government does not follow you, what is your plan B? What follows the journey in terms of timing of this law which has created many hopes but also fears? Finally, what are the budget estimates? Does this remain in the envelopes you mentioned earlier in the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u31	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week, in this same forum, the opposition spoke very hard about the government in general and about the Minister of Pensions in particular. Ms. Fonck said that she was angry with the government because he was handling the issue of penitibility very badly. Mr Daerden accused the government of a destructive policy of pensions. Mr. Gilkinet was stigmatizing an unfair pension system, particularly in the way in which the record of penitentiaries was handled. Today, the press announced a pre-agreement in Committee A. We feel that the opposition is finally sad that there was this agreement because it takes away from it a motive for invulgating the government! (...): There is no agreement!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to Mr Clarinval!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u33	I'm going on. Two unions have already formally agreed. The third union, the socialist union, needs an extra week to think, which is quite honourable. It should be noted that in any case, two trade unions have already agreed to this text. So that's good news for us. This is a new step in what has been put in place by the government since there has already been a list of objective criteria that is now recognized. We doubled the budget from $35 million to $70 million. There was also agreement on the coefficients to be applied in the case of recognition of penitibility. We therefore welcome this agreement. My question will be very simple, minister. Can you give us more details about this agreement, particularly on this list of trades that is circulating? Can you also give us the various steps that will now mark the continuation of this file? I really want to encourage you because we can see very well here that the opposition is very distraught because it has lost a tool to criticize the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u34	Minister, ceci n'est pas un accord, but people do want security. Whoever works as a nurse, builder, kindergarten teacher, wants clarity, certainty. Colleagues, so don't play stick fire. From the delicate social dialogue there is now a first agreement, but the N-VA and Open Vld set the place on fire. I call that irresponsible behavior. I call that party politics games. For what reason do they do that? Is it sabotage? Do these parties want a workable human scheme for people in heavy occupations? That is the question I would like an answer to. Mr Van Quickenborne, let the social dialogue take its course. Mr. Bacquelaine is not doing anything you have forbidden him. He's doing his job, especially social negotiations. What comes out will be judged by the content, but step by step. There is progress, there is a first agreement. So don't forget public statements that stir things up further. You missed the opportunity to shut up today. Working longer is obvious. That's part of the solution. I hope that it is equally obvious to all of us that we cannot demand that workers in heavy occupations continue to work until their 67th birthday. That should also be equally obvious. Mr Spooren spoke just now about the budget envelope. The government has only EUR 40 million for the heavy-duty professions. What logic did the government actually use? Normal logic, common sense, is first objectively measured: who is in a heavy occupation, not too much, not too little, not overdoing it, but correct. Only then can we decide how much budget is needed. You have locked yourself in a purely budgetary logic: EUR 40 million and no more euro. That's not the right method. I would ask you not to weigh that on a pharmacist's dish. The government must first of all ensure that as many heavy jobs as possible become workable jobs. Investing in workable work during the career, Minister, is the best investment in longer careers, in workable careers. I'd like to ask you if you share that view? I agree with the questions put by all my colleagues. I hope that there will be clarity and, above all, that the party propaganda of two groups will stop here and that we will be able to find solutions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u35	Minister, if I listen to some of you here, it seems that we should be silent when the union speaks. The syndicate's dictation seems to be above the primacy of politics. That's impossible, colleagues. I understand very well that the government unions are defending the interests of their militants, that is obvious, that is their job. But it is our job, the task of politics, of Parliament, of the government, to defend the interests of all workers, all self-employed persons and all civil servants who contribute to retirement. Minister, the agreements in the government are crystal clear. The first step is an approved draft law on the criteria to be met by workers in order to recognise their profession as a heavy occupation. The second step is to draw up a list of the really heavy tasks and that list should apply to both the public and private sectors. It is not possible for a nurse working in a public hospital to engage in a heavy occupation, but not a colleague in a private hospital. That's the essence. That's justice. That is what we are demanding here. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the credit of the government and of the Minister that after 40 years of discussion on heavy occupations and heavy tasks, the final measure is now in sight. There are two important conditions, Minister. Firstly, we must treat the private and public sectors equally and, secondly, we must, of course, ensure that what we are doing now does not undermine the pension reform you have drawn up with your colleagues. This is therefore a reform that will increase pensions for people and ensure the affordability of the system. That is what we ask of you. Firstly, do you accept the government's method of adopting the law at second reading as a first step, and then the lists? Secondly, do you accept that there should be a single list for the public and private sectors, so that it applies not only to civil servants but also to employees and the self-employed? Thirdly, do you accept that there should be an agreement that must, of course, be fully budgetary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u36	Colleagues, as you said yesterday, Committee A was held on the preliminary draft on the recognition of the tenability of certain functions for the conditions of access to the early pension and for the calculation of the amount of the pension in the public sector. This is the function of Committee A. As a reminder, this recognition must allow public service employees who will benefit from a recognition of hardship to anticipate their retirement or to receive a higher pension if they decide to continue their activity. The Government has decided that the abolition of the preferential arrangements and the preferential arrangements, which are included in the draft legislation, will only come into force when the agreement on the recognition of penitibility has been reached. This A Committee is organised following the adoption of the preliminary draft law at first reading by the Council of Ministers on 4 April 2018. The Council of Ministers has instructed me to initiate the trade-union negotiations. The Public Enterprises Committee delivered its opinion on this preliminary draft law on 16 May. The preliminary draft law will also be negotiated with the military in their negotiating committee on Friday 25 May. I am pleased that two out of three unions have agreed to the bill. The third union asked for a week before deciding. The Memorandum of Understanding has yet to be ratified by the Kern to be held this Friday. This is a decisive step in the negotiation process. The elements of the agreement vis-à-vis trade unions are as follows: the minimum duration of exposure to penitibility would be increased from five to ten years. In return, it is envisaged that the retroactivity of taking account of penitentiaries for staff members who did not benefit from preferential years and whose work is recognized as difficult will also be increased from five to ten years. A ratcheting mechanism will be provided for a period still to be determined to ensure that the staff member whose work is deemed to be arduous, that the amount of pension he will receive on the basis of the new provisions will not be less than that which he would have received on the basis of the existing legislation if he leaves on the current P date. In fact, the government's will is to ensure that those who work hard do not receive a lower pension than they would otherwise have had. In addition, it is planned to examine the extent to which the transitional provision for staff members who benefit from a preferential period and who do not benefit from a recognition of hardship cannot be extended to other cohorts beyond the current age of 56. It is specified that the recognition of staff penitentiaries will be extended to contractors, including temporary staff, who would perform the same function in the same manner. I must point out that the talks were conducted in accordance with the mandate given to me by the government at the Council of Ministers on 4 April. The trade unions have made the adoption of the lists of heavy duties and the effective services that I have negotiated with them a precondition for their agreement. At this stage, I do not wish to comment on the content of these lists as they have not yet been approved by the government. However, the government was regularly informed about the evolution of negotiations and the list. As far as the budget envelopes are concerned, they have not changed. Van Quickenborne and Daerden, they are still the ones originally decided by the government in 2017. Moreover, all the discussions I have are always taking place with the concern of meeting the budgetary objectives. The Federal Planning Office will also be asked to analyse the long-term budgetary impact. At the same time, negotiations are continuing with the private sector and the self-employed sector. A working group of the Federal Pension Service Management Committee was held on May 22. My firm introduced the draft legislation and provided further explanations. The Federal Pension Service Management Committee will meet on the draft bill on Monday, May 28. As for the list of difficult functions in the private sector, the National Labour Council will be invited, after trilateral consultation, to make a proposal. I reiterate here that, for me, it is essential to maintain equity among all workers in this country, whether they come from the public service, the private sector or the self-employed sector. The negotiations will be conducted in parallel so as to maintain this equity in accordance with the rules prevailing in pension reform. Working a little longer remains necessary to support our pension system. Everyone must contribute to this effort: to work a little longer to safeguard an effective pension system in the future and to ensure that this is done in budgetary rules acceptable to the whole country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u37	Mr Minister of Pensions, the conclusion is that of my colleague Wouter De Vriendt: "Tit is geen akkoord!" This is not an agreement! Mr Clarinval, you do not need the opposition to find that there is no agreement. For unions, the agreement must include the list established in the discussion with your representatives and those of the Prime Minister. For the Open Vld and the N-VA, this is not the case. I consider the comments made by Mr Klaps, for the N-VA, and Mr Klaps, for the N-VA. Van Quickenborne, for the Open Vld, as a kind of motion of distrust to vote on and about how you conducted these negotiations. The government is no longer a government. There are two governments. There is a government that wants to respect social dialogue and that wants solutions – I heard Mrs Becq – and there is a government that plays the challenge. In the meantime, there is no solution to this difficult trades issue. Minister, the solution will come through refinancing – you are not the Minister of Budgets, you are the Minister of Pensions – through respect for social dialogue and the search for fair solutions. You shouted victory far too soon. I regret this because more than ever we want recognition of these painful duties and different pension conditions, especially for teachers or nurses. Unfortunately, we are far too far from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u38	Minister, I was afraid that our joy would be short-lived, because your answer shows that there is no agreement. The trade unions have made it very clear that the list is part of the agreement and you are now saying that the list is not part of the agreement, so there is no agreement. However, we will continue to encourage you to continue social dialogue. The entire opposition will do that. We do ask you not to see pensioners as a cost, because you do so all the time. Especially with regard to the heavy-duty professions, it is not a cost item but a right for people to retire at a certain age. The Prime Minister stressed in his 2014 government statement that social dialogue should be supported. Mr Van Quickenborne, the social dialogue must be honoured. Do so, do so instead of obstructing it over and over again and make it difficult for your own minister to reach an agreement on the heavy professions, an agreement that is very necessary. Mr Van Quickenborne, read the government statement again, and perhaps you will change your mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u39	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have heard you commit to addressing the private and public sectors on an equal footing. We often talk about nurses, but it's not just them. There are the child-care workers, the caregivers, to name but a few, but there are many others. This is an important point and I will ensure that your statements are followed by action. There is also the rest of the private sector, with many other professions that will have to be recognized in terms of penitibility. As for the content of what you agreed on or did not agree on yesterday, I confess that it is nebulous. If you had an agreement, I could have welcomed its content in relation to the elements you outlined earlier. Today, however, we have the CD&V - as far as MR is concerned, I do not know very well - which clearly states that there is an agreement, which supports it and which intends to defend it and, on the other hand, the N-VA and the Open Vld in whose eyes there is no agreement. It seems to me that your way of doing things is irresponsible. Indeed, there is a Prime Minister who chairs Committee A and who commits himself as Prime Minister to an agreement that is known to be linked to the list of arduous trades. And then behind, we have a government sweeping the deal validated by its prime minister. It seems to me that this is totally irresponsible and disrespectful of the constructive attitude of two trade union organisations which have advanced in this agreement. It's irresponsible! We will see what happens afterwards and whether or not you will fulfil the commitment you have announced.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u40	Mr President, Minister, fortunately your answer reassures me somewhat because you say that it is not yet a final agreement and that it is still being discussed within the government. It also reassures me because you guarantee equality between the public sector and the private sector, and because you will keep an eye on the budgetary envelope. That reassures me somewhat. It is unacceptable to the N-VA that the cost of ageing should explode, which would mean that all those working now or in the future would have to pay even more of their wages. Nor is it an option for us to limit the rising costs of ageing by paying lower pensions to people who fall within the system of the heavy professions. For us, the main thread throughout the whole pension reform is that we expect everyone to make an effort to work a little longer, with the guarantee that those who work longer can keep their pension or even have a higher pension. I agree with Mr De Vriendt that workable work must certainly be part of the solution throughout the career, including for the heavy professions. As a result, we cannot send almost half of the civil servants into early retirement. We need to invest much more to make work and certainly the end of life bearable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you have an agreement with the social partners. It is also very often stated in the coalition agreement that we attach importance to social dialogue. Colleagues, a social dialogue is not a dictation. That is not a dictation of the negotiating minister or of the government. That is not a dictation of the trade unions either. It's a meeting. That is what is happening today, namely an agreement concluded today in the A Committee. It is an agreement and not a dictation, neither one nor the other. That is just the added value of that agreement. That is why we congratulate you, Minister. That's what we're sticking with. It is important to us, of course, that we have heard this correctly and that there is no draft law when there is no agreement on the heavy professions. Both are inextricably linked. Minister, for us too, the private nurse must be treated in the same way as in the public sector. For us too, the caregiver, whose profession is recognised today as a heavy occupation, is treated in the same way in the private sector as in the public sector. That's important to us. Minister, we believe that the agreement should be taken further into account in the additional agreements you will make with both the private sector and the government tomorrow. We are counting on you to bring that to a successful conclusion. After all, it takes courage to come up with solutions, to achieve things, to move forward and to give people security, even when they have a hard job, when we have to work longer and when we have to lay down the conditions for doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u42	Minister, I have three reactions to your answer. First of all, you don't agree. You have a very partial pre-agreement, conditioned by the unions and which cripples your majority. Secondly, on the substance, beyond the agreed debate or no agreement: let us not be fooled. Your reform is 67 years for everyone, and maybe some accommodation. If your project passes, the principle is that the more difficult your work is recognized, the more you will be able to leave with a low pension. That's actually your deal. Therefore, Minister, I say to you: the greater the hope, the more cruel the disappointment can be; and it will be for many when the reality is there!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u43	Mr President, decisively, when we hear this debate, we have to meditate on the fact that there is no deafer than the one who does not want to hear. Mrs Fonck, since you did not hear: there was an agreement in Committee A yesterday. The MR obviously supports this agreement. Earlier, you seemed to say it wasn't clear. The MR fully supports this agreement. Kern will meet tomorrow. It's not a surprise. Negotiations continue in the private sector. The minister pointed out that the leitmotiv was to have fair treatment. I know that this positive step is unfortunately not accepted by the opposition. She's finally disappointed. She would have preferred a clash so that she could continue to stigmatize the government. But it is a fact: an additional step is taken. We very much welcome him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u44	Mr President, Minister, your reply shows that you had a mandate from the government to start negotiations. There is now a first result. Two groups from your government are dissatisfied. Would they rather not have seen a result? What a deloyal attitude and what a provocation. I hope, Minister, that you will now proceed quickly. We will evaluate the content. For us, it is important for the self-employed and workers to be treated equally, because there are people with a heavy occupation there too, and a solution must be found there too. If no solution is found, if the case is now blocked, if the case is now put in the freezer, it will be the fault of Open Vld and N-VA. That is very clear. Finally, I would like to encourage you to take into account the dimension of workable work. We must not just fix retirement age, we must also try to make careers workable. If a kindergarten teacher has the choice between, on the one hand, an overcrowded class stand without accompaniment and can retire one year earlier and, on the other hand, well supervised for a smaller class, then we all know what choice that kindergarten teacher will make.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u45	Mr President, Minister, you have told us very clearly what is happening in this government and what the method is. The first step is an agreement on a law, with the criteria in it. And the second step is making lists for the public and private sectors. Of course, the opposition is becoming desperate, because it is gradually seeing a solution in sight, that this dossier, which has been dragging on for decades, is likely to be resolved by this government and this minister. Congratulations on that, Minister. Colleagues, the following surprises me throughout the discussion. Are not bakers, bone-cutters, catering operators working their way out of the seams among the heavy professions? Is there ever any mention of that? The équité the Minister is talking about, that is the essence. Equal treatment for civil servants, employees and the self-employed is what we want, and that is the solution we need to find.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u46	Secretary of State, last week in the night of Thursday to Friday, two-year-old Mawda Shawri was shot dead in a chase between a van she was in and the police who wanted to intercept her. I will not go back here to the circumstances of this tragedy. Investigations are under way. I hope that they will soon lead to full clarity on the facts and responsibilities of everyone. Nevertheless, the death of this child has shaken us all. We are in shock because we can hardly imagine that such a history is taking place in Belgium, our country. We are also shocked because, after this tragedy, the parents were particularly abused. They were unable to accompany their child to the ambulance while she was dying; they were immediately accommodated in a night shelter. We were struck by the fact that this family was issued an order to leave the territory immediately after the death of their daughter. How can one imagine such a decision towards people who have just lost a child? It's an immeasurable tragedy to lose a child. Nothing can ever fix that loss. The minimum would have been to allow these parents in prison, victims in their country and victims in Belgium, to remain in the territory if they wished. The Prime Minister has proposed different possibilities for them to remain on Belgian territory for at least three months. "At least three months"! Regardless of the legal tool used, it must lead to the immediate and definitive regularization of this family in order to enable them to live properly their mourning, to be able to follow the investigation to the end and, if possible, to rebuild. Mr Secretary of State, will you or will you not cancel the order to leave the territory addressed to this family and make every effort to allow them to settle in dignity and, if they so wish, definitively in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u47	Mr Franken, in the tragedy of the little Mawda remains what we do not know. What we don't know, the ongoing investigations will determine. I have confidence in my country's institutions and will therefore await the outcome of these investigations, which the Prime Minister promised us to be impartial, transparent and independent, before pointing to any responsibility, including political responsibility. Besides what we don't know, there is what we know, as my colleague has just reminded us. This is the unbearable way in which parents, the victims of this tragedy, have been treated. A mother was removed from her child injured by a bullet while she was carrying her first aid; a little girl died alone in an ambulance; a mother, imprisoned with her four-year-old child, learned of the death of her little daughter more than 24 hours later. It's unbearable and it's part of what we know. As the Prime Minister announced that the government would take care of the family, we learn that it was taken care of by the citizens and by the citizen platform. Political responsibility must be defined by investigation, but political consciousness must inspire us. At the heart of it, we learn that the only act of the government concerning this family is to issue orders to leave the territory. Mr Franken, my question is simple: do you intend to regularize this family to allow it to remain permanently on Belgian territory where their little girl is going to be buried?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u48	Mr President, honourable Members, let me first of all point out that Mawda's death is a huge tragedy, both for his family and for the police officer who, without wishing to do so, caused the death of this little girl. The police have been the target of a lot of criticism over the past few days. However, I continue to believe in the professionalism and ethical sense of all the agents involved. I would like to point out to you that the investigation into the circumstances is continuing. Pending its conclusions, I call for calm and serenity. It is in this sense that I invite everyone to put an end to the political recovery of this tragedy. As far as the situation of the child's parents' stay is concerned, I will be brief. At this stage, they have not submitted any applications. In order to continue the judicial investigation under the best conditions, we will not pursue an active return policy towards them, as long as the investigation takes place. As far as your other questions are concerned, I can only refer you to the answers given by the Prime Minister the day before yesterday, by Mr Jambon yesterday and by Mr Geens today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, your answer - like that of the Prime Minister - is really not up to what our country has experienced, and certainly does not respond to the suffering of the family. I hope that the family of little Mawda will finally find some humanity and that the government to which you belong will make the only necessary decision, which is to allow these people to stay on our territory if they so wish. If you close all the doors before you even allow them to apply, they will be deprived of any initiative. Therefore, let them at least have the opportunity to express their wish to stay here. This is the minimum we can offer to this family, who is plunged into pain for a very long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u50	Mr Franken, as I said, we trust our institutions and therefore wait for the results of the investigation to establish all the responsibilities in this matter. I agree with you. However, in recent months, we have found that you are not fulfilling your political responsibilities. Today, by listening to you, I see that you have no political conscience. You have discretion. Use it! Allow this family, who is a victim, to remain in the territory, the same territory where their child will be buried. Mr Franken, give us dignity!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u51	Mr Secretary of State, you usually tweet faster than your shadow, especially when it comes to spreading messages about your alleged muscular approach to the asylum and alienation problem. We have not yet heard from you on this issue. That is why I would like to ask you about the increase in the number of asylum seekers. Compared to the first four months of last year, we see an increase of almost 20%. This is remarkable, because it matches the level of 2015, at least for the first four months. The number is certainly higher than in 2016 and 2017. This is also remarkable because the number of asylum seekers in Europe is falling, especially in the front states of Europe, such as Greece, Spain and Italy. We also note that, as far as net immigration is concerned, our country is in the top five states of Europe. We are even leaving behind countries such as Greece and Italy, Europe's front states. I do not know, but perhaps this fits in with the famous Marrakech agreement you concluded on 5 May. I do not know; we were not allowed to read about it in the media, there was no tweeting about it and there were no cameras when you concluded that agreement in Morocco, together with your colleagues Jambon and Reynders. However, the agreement is significant: the Rabat partners, including Belgium, recognise the need to encourage and strengthen the paths towards regular migration. These are words that we do not usually hear from you, quite the contrary. Also this time there was no communication about this. But you will want to explain this shortly, particularly in view of what you said on 14 April last. At that time, you even argued that all asylum flows towards our country should be reduced to zero, referring to the Australian example. Prosperity between word and deed? Isn't it? You'll want to explain that to me in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u52	Mr Dewinter, I can only tell you that there is no increase in the influx of new asylum seekers, but there is a steady decline. In April there were 1 323 first asylum applicants. That is the lowest influx since December 2017. If we do not consider that shorter month, the Foreign Affairs Office will be closed for many days in December, then the new influx was not so low even since July 2017. There is therefore no increase in the amount of asylum. It's about first asylum applicants. You know that you always have to take multiple asylum applications into account when applying for asylum. These are people who have been on Belgian territory for a long time. Be careful with the statistics you use. So there were 1 323 new asylum seekers. There's still too many of them. I agree with you on this, especially if three hundred to four hundred multiple asylum applications are to be added every month to asylum seekers who have already been rejected. Of course, I do not need you to realise that the number remains high and that the pressure on many countries in Western Europe remains high. That's right. You also know that, in my opinion, there should be a shift in the entire migration and asylum model. Right now, it's dysfunctional. We need to move to a story in which spontaneous asylum applications after illegal entry are no longer possible, but a watertight border surveillance and legal, humanitarian immigration via legal and safe routes, on the initiative of the government itself, with respect and attention to our capacity. You're referring to the Australian model. You should also know that Australia is above us in the statistics you quote and in which Belgium is fifth on the ranking list. You should always know who you're quoting as an example. Be careful with that. There is a need for drastic reforms of the European directives, as well as a comprehensive migration deal with Tunisia, to finally end the asylum influx in Italy. I am hopeful that, after the European elections in 2019, effective action will also be shown at European level. The key to a structural reduction in asylum migration lies in Europe, and in Europe alone. In the meantime, we are firmly emphasising collective care and deprivation in the countries of origin. Mr Dewinter, I have been on a distress mission in Guinea and Albania. The Albanian minister is here today and tomorrow, with a delegation. I'll see them tomorrow. I'm leaving for Georgia in two weeks. Those are countries where one can discourage, because the rate of recognition is very low. That is not possible in Syria. You'll understand. Finally, on the Marrakech Declaration, I did tweet it. I even recorded a Facebook Live about it. I'll send you the link to it. I wrote a whole Facebook post about it. There's nothing secret about it. And there were a lot of camera crews there. So stop that story, because it doesn't make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, I can only quote from the figures published by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. According to them, there were 7 140 asylum applications in the first four months of 2018. In 2017, there were 6 085. Regardless of whether it is run or run, this is a 20% increase, while migratory pressure is falling in the rest of Europe. I would also like to refer to countries where it is possible not to include asylum seekers anymore. I refer to the Visegrad countries, and I refer to Hungary, where Prime Minister Orban is doing what should happen here, particularly with regard to refugees. May I quote Mr Orban? After all, it is also Hungary that has refused to sign the famous Marrakech Treaty. You're not saying this, but I'll tell you here. He was right to refuse that, by the way. Prime Minister Orban says, I quote: 'European countries cease to exist by mass immigration, while Europe does not even notice that it is being occupied. Europe and the EU should not focus on the reception and distribution of refugees, but on closing borders and protecting our external borders." Prime Minister Orban is right again. Take him as an example, rather than your other European partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u54	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, let us keep in touch. We say goodbye. Last chance to stay with us. We are interested in your permission for data protection. Here is a florileg of e-mails that all colleagues in this assembly have been receiving daily, for a few weeks now. This effervescence, Mr. Secretary of State, to inform us about the use of our personal data is, no doubt, the fruit of your work, but also reflects the imminent entry into force of the GDPR (or GDPR), an acronym that we can no longer ignore and which is found in many newspaper articles today. This European regulation, adopted two years ago, which took more than four years of negotiations, aims to respond to the technological revolutions that have literally transformed the production of personal data and their use by companies and public authorities, a use that is not always in accordance with our fundamental rights, including that of privacy protection. The latest scandals, notably that of Cambridge Analytica, are here to remind us. In J-1, Mr Secretary of State, one day after the entry into force of this regulation, could you give an update on the progress of the legislative adaptations that were to be made, the operational adaptations in different sectors, and the way in which companies and public authorities – I would remind you that this regulation will apply to both companies and public authorities – have been helped to be ready to apply these principles of proportionality and purpose? Do you have any idea how our European colleagues and friends have done this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u55	Mr President, Mr Foret, thank you for your question. It is true that the GDPR will be in place tomorrow. But we must avoid sowing trouble, causing panic, instigating confusion. Again this morning, the press reported incorrect information from the sectoral committees. What is crucial and what we need to do now is to continue to inform and raise awareness among different companies and organizations. The Privacy Commission plays a crucial role. She must be there to inform and accompany. Belgium is far from the bottom of the pack. In early December, we voted together and unanimously on the reform for the new authorities. The new committee must now be set up. Parliament has chosen to temporarily extend the current Privacy Commission to ensure the transition with future authorities. It is clear that on 25 May, with this European regulation, all rights for consumers and citizens apply as are all duties for organisations and businesses. I repeat, what is important at this stage is that information continues to be passed on to citizens and businesses and that the support of organisations continues. For the rest, we are in the process of finalizing the framework law. Tomorrow, the government will be ready to pass this new law, which will be tabled in Parliament as soon as possible. The most important thing is that the framework law implements room for manoeuvre of the GDPR. It doesn't fix the essentials. The most important thing is in the regulation, namely the rights of citizens and the duties of the institutions. Finally, let us also keep in mind that if the GDPR breathes new wind, it seems very close to our 1992 law. The main thing for me is that the scope for protection is expanded with this new regulation, that citizens are better protected and that businesses and organisations are more vigilant with our data. This is essential given the digital economy we know today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u56	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for your action, for your answers and for your work in implementing this change in culture in the report we have with the data and in how we will protect citizens on a daily basis as part of the protection of their data. It's important. You mustn't be afraid. It is an opportunity for Europe and European companies to be able to cope with extra-European competition and, above all, to restore digital sovereignty in Europe and allow all actors to be on an equal footing. It is clear that the process of implementing the GDPR is in its infancy. Anyway, tomorrow, he'll know his official start. A culture is already in progress; it must be accompanied. There is a need to help actors ensure that this is a success, especially for the benefit of European citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u57	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u58	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u59	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u60	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3024/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3024/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u61	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u62	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, MM. Wim Van der Donckt and Stéphane Crusnière refer to their written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u63	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3003/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3003/4) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u64	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u65	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Brecht Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u66	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Thiébaut, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u67	Mr President, I am pleased that I can use a relatively calm plenary to give a long introduction to the proposal before us. Mr Calvo, you look at me and you know that if I stand in the chair and have worked on something for a long time, I will also explain it for a long time in plenary to make sure that everyone understands how well the proposal before us is. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to be standing before you today because I have spent three years working on improving and modernising the text on security at football matches. In the summer of 2015, I first organized contacts with different police zones and football clubs, which resulted in a text that was discussed in the Home Affairs Committee in 2016. At the time there was a political agreement to vote on that text, but at the request of the late Professor Brice De Ruyver and the Jambon cabinet, which wanted to see a number of things clarified, a general change was not discussed in committee at the very last moment and put to the vote in plenary. However, some technical changes were adopted which were absolutely necessary so that the football competition could take place in its new formula with first class A and first class B. There was then a series of hearings with various stakeholders in Parliament, in particular the KBVB, the ACCF, the Pro League, the Football Cell, the BVBO, the Zuid police zone, the ACOD as well as the Chief Constable of Zone Liège. This led to the immediate amendment of the text by 31 amendments. A discussion followed, leading to new amendments at the end of 2017, in particular Nos 32 to 79. Then there was an opinion from the Council of State, with the result of a series of amendments, in particular Nos 80 to 123. New amendments were also tabled at the time of the last discussion and the day on which the proposal was adopted at first reading. Even at second reading, amendments were added and adopted. In short, I had continued intensive consultations, not only with the political world, but also with the world that will have to do with all the changes to the football law. It is extremely important to show that the present legislative proposal has been sufficiently supported and will be workable in the present form. Now that the final text is in place, it is important for everyone that the law enters into force quickly. This will take place from 1 June 2018, so very soon, at the explicit request of the stakeholders. That is why I asked the Conference of Presidents yesterday to add the bill to today's agenda, which has happened. The amendments to the bill are not all major changes in themselves, but many small ones make a major adjustment to the whole. Today, in plenary session, I list the thirty most important aspects which amend the existing legislation. Firstly, the scope of the football law is extended, specifically as regards supporter violence. One of the main changes to the legislative proposal concerns the scope of measures against supporter violence and how to tackle it. At present, the chapter on supporters only applies to the first class A and first class B matches and to the first and second amateur league matches. With the present legislative proposal we wish to extend the scope to include the matches of clubs of first class A and B and all amateur classes. In addition, even matches of the clubs of the two highest women's football departments and the youth matches playing eleven against eleven of the two highest national youth categories in their respective age groups will also be subject to this. So this is very specific about the categories U14, U15, U16, U17, U19 and the promises. That adjustment is necessary, because we see a shift in security risks in this area, for example at final matches of the Belgian U19 cup, to say anything. We see that more people with a stadium ban also become more creative and know the football law very well. Instead of committing violations, making amok or acting improperly during competitions of the first teams of the professional clubs, those individuals are now going to youth matches and women's competitions of their favorite clubs. This brings with it new security problems, which escape the rules of the current football law. I refer to a news report from the last month in which it was read that a hooligan of Club Bruges, with stadium ban, was still aloof to the promises. It was about the match of 2 May 2016 between Club Bruges and Standard. They fired Bengal's fire, and they can't let that happen in a stadium. Actually, this is allowed if the football law doesn't apply. A steward and a chief steward saw this and intervened. The steward was beaten and even Sven Vermant, Club Bruges' then promised trainer, had to intervene. Shifts can also be observed in the lower departments. This is mainly because there are a number of clubs with a great tradition. They have a large constituency, even though they no longer play in the highest series. I'm thinking of La Louvière, FC Liège, the former Beerschot in the meantime some climbing and Eendracht Aalst. So there are a number of clubs that may pose a risk. In committee I explained in detail examples of competitions from the amateur series that were faced with supporter problems. Therefore, all competitions in the amateur series will be monitored and penalties will follow in the event of infringements. I would like to say that this is not the only thing we do for those clubs. After all, we will ensure that other measures are taken to prevent violence. In a certain number of cases, they may also deploy stewards when deemed necessary by the King. I'll get back to you on that. In order to change the scope, however, we have had to change many definitions. The definition was simple. For example, the definition of football matches has been changed to include youth and women's matches. In order not to meet all of these clubs' obligations, they were excluded from the definition of national and international football matches, and two new definitions were inserted, namely the national women's and youth football matches. A second important facet is making the football law robust for changes to the league format. We made changes to the football law in 2016 due to the Pro League's decision to reform competition, with the creation of a first class A and B, and an amateur class in three sets. In order to ensure that future competition changes remain possible without new legislative changes, the definition of national division was inserted. At present, the top five departments fall under the heading of national departments. The third facet consists of making the stadium and the perimeter possible in lower departments. The current definition of stadium requires both a stand and an outside fence to be able to speak of a stadium. This creates practical problems, because many clubs from amateur series and many youth areas do not have a stand or even an outside fence at all, so the football law could not apply. In order to extend the scope of the law without having to rush the clubs unnecessarily at any time, we have chosen not to consider a gallery as a requirement anymore. In addition, it is also decided that in stadiums that do not have an outside fence, the interior fence can be used as a demarcation area. By analogy with this reasoning, the definition of perimeter was also adjusted. Not all clubs have a stand or outside fence. We will insert a second paragraph, which makes the definition possible in those cases. I come to the fourth aspect, in particular the extension of the definition of a football event, in order to allow the deployment of stewards. At the moment, the current football law already provides for a definition of a football event. At the moment it is mainly about training of the club, usually in fan days. We add a new possibility, which ensures that any football-related event, organised by a professional club or by the Football Association in a closed place accessible to the public, can also be considered as a football event. It is therefore necessary that there is a clear link with football. Events that will currently fall within the scope of football events are fan days, regardless of whether it is a training, or matches of the club on the move, which are shown by the club in its own stadium. I am thinking of Roeselare's final match against Antwerp last season, where ten thousand supporters of Antwerp watched the game in the Bosuil Stadium on a large screen. At that time there was no application of the football law, but now it will be. Private initiatives by football game organisers, i.e. publicly accessible initiatives, such as a club barbecue, cannot be considered as a football event to deploy stewards. Also a party organized by a club after a football match cannot be included. The public character of it may be there, but the link with football as a sport is insufficient. The clubs, like other organizers of a party, must then use private security agents. In addition, professional clubs and the Football Association will be able to use stewards during these football events. The stewards will be given the same tasks and powers as during a regular football match. However, it is important to point out that the deployment of stewards is an option and not an obligation such as during football matches. In order to deploy stewards, prior to the event there will be a written agreement between the organiser, the competent mayor and the police areas concerned. The fifth facet is the insertion of a supporter liaison officer into the law. Since the 2012-2013 season, football clubs applying for a UEFA licence have been obliged to appoint a supporter liaison officer or SLO. The SLO is a regulatory title of UEFA, not a legal title. With this change of law, we ensure that the professional clubs of first class A and B will have an SLO, and not just the clubs that have applied for a UEFA licence for European football. The SLO has a clear preventive role. In our opinion, self-regulating by fans is the best form of preventive measures. We want to make maximum use of prevention, but I am well aware that this will not prevent all violence. I'll come back to that later. Of course, there are also curative measures. I would also like to stress that all measures relating to the SLO require an additional royal decision. This obligation is introduced in Article 8 of the Act. I'm coming to the sixth facet, the mandater responsible. The mandated security officer is now defined in the law. Why? Because in several places in the football law and in the royal decrees the mandated security officer was already mentioned. However, unlike other persons or other functions in the safety chain, for example the stewards, there was no definition in the football law yet. To change this, we will add it now. In this way, it must also be clear to everyone what role that person can play. In addition, all provisions of the law referring to the safety officer have been adapted and transposed into the correct form, being "mandated safety officer." Then I get to the seventh facet. The security agreement becomes mandatory in the first amateur class. This security agreement is an important agreement document between all stakeholders concerned, namely the club, the police zones, the emergency services and the local government. Since the cost of concluding such a security agreement is quite limited for the clubs, it's really just a little time devoted to the safety officer, the choice has been made to carry out the obligation linearly for the first amateur class. You will also hear from me that we want to reduce a possible increase in costs. This has always been an essential point of attention. Each decision has always been carefully considered whether the increased safety benefits are sufficiently proportionate to possible costs and are therefore justified. We have had a very extensive consultation with the partners, such as the Pro League and the Royal Belgian Football Association. Then I get to the eighth facet. From now on, the security agreement must be concluded before 21 July instead of 1 August. The reason is next. In the past it was always the case that the football season started the first week of August, but in recent years we increasingly see that the first games of first class A are already finished in the last weekend of July. The 2017-2018 season started on July 28, the previous seasons on July 29 and July 24. We will therefore ensure that no security agreements are concluded after the season has already started. Then I get to the ninth facet. We give more time to the clubs that have to sign a security agreement for one specific competition. I am talking here specifically about clubs from provincial departments or amateur classes who are lucky enough to get far into the Belgian Cup, who win several games after each other and then suddenly have the luck to receive a big first class club. In the beginning they are always very happy to receive that club, because that means a lot of cafeteria and other income, but suddenly it turns out that this involves a lot of security arrangements. The draw of that series of games is sometimes very close together, so the existing eight-day period is too long. Sometimes there is only a seven-day period in between, so there can be no time limit of eight days to conclude an agreement. So we make sure that the football club from a lower division gets the opportunity to conclude an agreement up to five days before the game takes place. The tenth facet is that in first amateur class a mandated security officer is required. We even give a delegation to the King to make it compulsory in second and third amateur classes. I spoke earlier about the security agreement. All clubs from the first amateur class will now also have to designate a mandated security manager. For the clubs concerned, this obligation is not an excessive burden. After all, as I pointed out in detail during the discussion in committee, most of the clubs operating in the first amateur league have a past in the former third national section of the second class. So they used to have a security officer. The majority of those responsible have also retained their function. As has already been mentioned, we are giving a delegation to the King to make it possible in the second or third amateur League to make a mandated security officer compulsory. Of course, that has everything to do with clubs that may be a big risk because they have a traditional supporters, more supporters and sometimes also a different reputation. The eleventh facet is that the use of stewards in amateur series can also be made mandatory by the King. If a security officer can be required, we can also consider the use of stewards and make them compulsory at traditional clubs for which we consider, or for which the King considers, that a steward may be necessary in order to ensure safety in those competitions. We can't do that at every club. This must be done after a risk analysis. In order to ensure that there is no disproportionate burden for a club, we will investigate this carefully. A mandate is given to the King. We do not therefore choose to apply the measure linearly. The delegation imposes a number of obligations. I have already said that there must be a mandatory risk analysis, which should show that the competition in question represents an increased risk and that it is therefore better to use stewards in that competition. The twelfth facet concerns a local advisory board that can also be required by the King in amateur classes. A local advisory board shall include all relevant actors who will coordinate the club's local security policy. Evaluations and reflections on security policy will improve the overall picture. If the King considers this necessary, the amateur clubs will now be given the opportunity to set up such a local advisory council. The thirteenth facet is hospitality. Hospitality is a strange story because it is difficult to define what we should do in normal legislation. First class A and B clubs and the first amateur league will have to take measures to "ensure hospitality and comfort in the stadiums," it says literally. Those are subjective concepts. The Football Cell of Home Affairs is intended to further translate these subjective concepts into minimum quality requirements. I am thinking specifically of adequate minimum sanitary facilities, so that a visiting supporter does not end up in a garbage dump, but is treated equally as a home sportsman. The mere presence of toilets could still be sufficient, but with the new provision we say that hospitality and comfort are also necessary. A delegation is also being given to the King to further strengthen security measures. In order to optimise the quality of legislative work, an opinion was requested from the Council of State. One of the recommendations was to strengthen the delegation to the King for security measures in Article 10 by supplementing the paragraph with the provision that any additional security measure must always be ratified by law. We accepted that recommendation. That was the 14th facet. The fifteenth facet concerns the separation of supporters. If we had not paid attention to its definition, there was a risk that a supporter's separation in the first amateur League would be mandatory. That would be very strange, because we are actually making it possible for home clubs, in a number of cases, to make logistics and organisation perfectly possible for visiting supporters to take place among the home supporters because there is sufficient social control to make the security risk manageable. A number of professional clubs, such as KV Kortrijk, make use of this. I am not a supporter of KV Kortrijk at all, but I have mentioned that example more than once. Now that clubs from the first amateur class are also required to take security measures, we will have to ensure that they are given that opportunity. Otherwise, they will be punished at risk, which is not the intention. Facet 16 is a new chapter on the use of cameras in football stadiums. I have already reported that we have asked the Council of State for an opinion on this bill. One of the comments was that it should not be the King but the legislator to determine in which cases and under what conditions images may be made and what the purpose of those recordings should be. As a result, a new chapter will be inserted to lay down detailed rules. In fact, we build on the already existing Royal Decree of 22 February 2006 concerning the installation and operation of surveillance cameras in the football stadiums. As of May 25th, tomorrow, the General Data Protection Regulation will enter into force. Both to the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jambon and to the cabinet of Secretary of State for Privacy De Backer we have asked what provisions are needed in the legislation. The inserted articles are now in line with the GDPR guidelines. Facet 17 is about the deployment of stewards in a perimeter around the stadium. The tasks of stewards are extended, making it possible to deploy stewards in a perimeter around the stadium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u68	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u69	Mrs Lalieux, you are very interested and that makes me happy, because this will also be absolutely important for the city of Brussels. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have two possible tasks for stewards in the perimeter. Stewards will be able to accompany referees, staff, players and official delegations. In addition, stewards will also be used on parkings operated by the organizers of a competition, where they can vouch for the visitors. Facet 18. The mandated security officer must ensure the flow of information before meeting with other clubs. The law obliges the mandated security officer from now on to pass on information on collective movements of players, staff, referees and official delegations to the police zones. It didn't happen in the past. That caused problems, because it was not clear who was responsible. That is why we are adapting it now. Facet 19. The stewards can also take out prohibited objects prohibited by the club's internal regulations. The bill stipulates that the organisers of football matches in first class A and B and in the first amateur league must draw up a rules of procedure. It will be possible to determine which objects are prohibited. The current change allows stewards to ask for prohibited items to be delivered after a superficial check.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u70	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u71	Mrs. Lalieux, the best is yet to come. Facet 20, sanctions are provided for clubs that fail to fulfil their obligations. At the moment it is only clubs of first class A and B that have obligations as organizers provided for in the football law. Now certain parts of the law will also apply to amateur clubs. We must ensure that these clubs can also be punished or avoided. Facet 21, a ban on pyrotechnic material in the perimeter and during collective movements. It is a sad observation, as we recently saw on TV, that the use of pyrotechnic material in and around the football stadiums is increasing. Last year there were incidents involving pyrotechnic materials at 32% of the competitions. In the meantime, this has risen to 43% of the games. Therefore, the law must be strengthened and the possession of firefighters, fireworks or smoke bombs is already prohibited in the stadium. This bill also makes use of it criminal. There will also be a ban on the use and possession of pyrotechnic material in the perimeter around the stadium and during collective movements. This is necessary because collective movements regularly stop at car parks along the motorways where they are suddenly going to use pyrotechnic material, with major risks of fire and explosion. That is not within the perimeter of the stadium and not within the fence. Consequently, we will provide for an extension and ensure that this is adjusted accordingly. Of course, we are also ensuring that the use of pyrotechnic material throughout the Belgian territory can be dealt with as a result of football matches with a ban. People sometimes think it's not dangerous. This is evident from many speeches and reactions I have received on this point. People think it's nice and fun and contributes to the atmosphere. However, we must not forget that Bengal's fire brings temperatures above 1 000 °C and causes very heavy burns. Finders have also caused problems of permanent hearing damage on more than one occasion. Facet 22. The football law is extended to 48 hours before and after the game for football-related violence. After all, we see that there is an inciting of beatings and injuries to football matches. This is particularly true for European competitions. That is why the deadline is increased from 24 hours to 48 hours. Facet 23. Punishment equally throughout the territory of violence committed by one person or by a group. Punishing offences by one person in the same way as offences by a group is a challenge, because other provisions now concern the use of violence in a stadium and the perimeter, and it is obviously not logical that a single person should not prosecute an offence, but the same offence by two or more persons. Facet 24. A system of warnings. This is the greatest approximation to existing legislation. This system of warnings should make it possible for people who commit offences to be punished in a way other than monetary. The football law now provides for a very large arsenal of punishments to curb misguided supporter behavior, but it is often about emotional matters. In order to ensure that the FPS Home Affairs Football Cell would not punish too easily, too quickly or too harshly, we believe that some adjustment should be possible. The intention of my work on this bill is to be lenient to so-called first-offers, especially in the case of minor violations. The simple raising of a middle finger must certainly not automatically be equated with inciting hatred or anger. I admit, honestly, that I did so several times during the game at an emotional moment, and I think that such punishments go too far for that. That is why we are providing for a new instrument, namely an official alert mechanism, which is registered in the law. That makes sure policemen can put a warning on them. Some local police zones use such a warning. The intended effect, which is also achieved by these police zones, is clear: the behaviour is quickly corrected without the police really having to act repressively. An official warning is possible for all offences, but it is not, of course, the intention that violence offences should be punished less. That is why it is up to the police officer to judge and consider a violation for a warning. The purpose of the football law should certainly not be to draw up as many minutes as possible, but to correct people's behaviour, not through months of proceedings, but as soon as possible. Police zones that do not want to use the instrument should not use it, but there will be the possibility to take over the good practices from other areas. The bill provides for another kind of warning, which we want to avoid being punished in a different way depending on whether or not a police zone uses the system. With the extension of Article 37, the Football Cell can also impose a warning at the end of the procedure, which ultimately treats everyone in the same way. Facet 25, the deletion of the administrative notification obligation. Previous legislation provided for an administrative obligation to notify, but this was never confirmed by any implementing act. This did not make it possible to make it work in practice. I am convinced that, in future, we can use technological means to make administrative notification possible. At present, there is no ready answer, which is why it is being deleted from the existing legislation. The administrative ban on leaving the territory is also being adapted. That's what I've been told. I will not go into too much detail, then Mrs Lalieux will certainly be satisfied. Facet 27, effective sanctions are being addressed and a number of gaps are being addressed. Important is the notification of the Football Cell's decision. If a person does not pay the fine imposed, that will also be communicated, so that the Football Cell gets the tools to enforce a claim. Facet 29, the sale of tickets in home compartments by visiting supporters is prohibited and even punishable. Indeed, it happened more often that there were unwanted supporters of the visitors at the home supporters' competitions or in which tickets were bought for profit to resell. Finally, with regard to privacy, reference is made to the Data Protection Authority, which we have often talked about in recent days. I would like to thank all the members of the committee. I am looking at Mr Thiébaut, who is now silent, but was very constructive. I am also looking at Mrs Poncelet, among others, and also at employees. Members of the majority parties and of the opposition have all made interesting and justified comments and I have accepted them. We did not always agree with each other, which is typical of the political battle scene, but we respected each other and listened to the expertise that can also come from others. The bill was almost unanimously adopted at first reading with a abstention. That abstention was converted into an approval at second reading. The proposal was adopted almost unanimously at second reading, with a abstention, but by another party. Thank you all for your constructive attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard, I was the rapporteur of this bill. I exempted you from the full reading of the excellent report that I had prepared with Parliament's colleagues, because I suspected that Mr Vermeulen's presentation would be very complete. In committee, it was even longer!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u73	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u74	Yes, but he's more belgian than he seems! A few words on this proposal, which aims to change the Football Act, which celebrates its twentieth anniversary this year, and which enables it to be brought into line with the new realities of Belgian football and the field experiences both from the point of view of the clubs of the Belgian Union and the police and the mayors. I will not go back to the major developments proposed in this text, which have been widely recalled to you and which respond to some of our concerns, including the extension of the perimeters concerned beyond the strict approaches of the land, the inclusion of the concept of "football event" with regard to the use of stewards or the possibilities left to the police of a more graduated approach to sanctions. These developments, in our view, make the text more effective and also facilitate the work of local police areas, which is not negligible in the current context. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a more succinct summary of the work done in this committee. We were constructive in committee – as Mr Vermeulen pointed out – despite working conditions that were not simple because the text was strongly amended. It wasn't always easy to do the synthesis, which you had the live demonstration. Having said that, I would like to thank the services for their excellent work. We have supported this text in committee, and we will support it again today at the end of the sitting. However, I would like to highlight points that will have to continue to be the focus of our attention and that of the government after the passage of the text. Don't worry, there are three of them. First, the measures proposed here will have a cost. It's obvious. No one denies it even though it is difficult to assess it today. It is therefore a matter of repeating it once again. This cost should not be borne by police areas nor should it endanger the finances of the most fragile clubs. Secondly, as far as stewards are concerned, I would point out that they are not police officers. They're not private security officers either. They are volunteers who participate in the big football party taking place in the best conditions for all. In this context and in the light of the competences conferred upon them, the question of their training needs to be given special attention. Thirdly, it is a point which, in the end, is valid both for this text and for many others, it is that of the monitoring of supervision in the management of the cameras which are intended to be used. They will be useful, but it will be necessary to ensure that future privacy authorities will be able to monitor the management of these images, data banks, etc. Here, collected in a few words, for your great pleasure, the position of my group that I wanted to share with you. I confirm that we will vote in favour and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief comment on the long way in which this text has been drawn up. Mr Vermeulen, to put it in football terms, it was not a 90-minute match, because we needed a number of extensions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the start of the discussions in committee, Open Vld raised a number of concerns about the original text, concerns about the proportionality of a number of measures, about the cost picture, which Mr Thiébaut also mentioned, and about the field of application, which we believe was too broad at the outset. Mr Vermeulen, I said in committee, among other things, that most of our football matches are happy without problems and that we should certainly bear that in mind when drafting this text. So we have been constructively involved in the present adjustment, with attention to three bottlenecks which I briefly mention. Firstly, necessity, desirability and proportionality. I have already said that the scope was too wide at first. Secondly, the obligations for amateur clubs and the costs they entail. Thirdly, the extension of the scope for security cameras. This should be limited to the first two national sections. For lower categories, the new camera legislation may apply. We have come to a balanced text, with a good balance between all stakeholders in this matter. These are not only the Football Cell, but also our policemen, our local boards, our football clubs and, last but not least, our players from young to less young and all the supporters around them. Because, as one often says, football must be a party. It is a balanced text. The definition of football matches was restricted. Not all women's and youth's competitions are covered. A new definition of national division was introduced. New competition changes will no longer have an impact on the football law, as was the case last year. The clubs from the first amateur league were imposed a number of additional obligations, but without much organizational burden or cost: the conclusion of the security agreement with the local government, the appointment of a mandated security officer, the drafting and enforcement of a rules of internal order. The new system of stewards has been arranged in such a way that the Minister of the Interior will determine which clubs in the amateur series have an obligation to deploy stewards. This will only be done after a risk analysis indicating that it is necessary. The privileges of the stewards are slightly extended. According to Open Vld, it is important to underline the role of the stewards. After all, they make it possible to reduce the use of police forces and reduce the costs for society. There has already been talk of the danger of pyrotechnic material and of the fact that the criminalisation of property and its use is now being registered. The official warning, which is a good practice, is now inserted into the law. We think that's a good signal. Finally, this text responds to the concerns of the clubs in terms of security, which is certainly a good thing. The date of entry into force is 1 June in the text. So we play very briefly on the ball. Today is May 24th. The text is not likely to be published in the Belgian Official Journal on the date of entry into force. This is not ideal, but the circumstances have ensured that it has turned out that way. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end my speech by congratulating Mr Brecht Vermeulen, who is not only a Member of Parliament but also Vice-President of KSK Roeselare. Mr Vermeulen, although another West Flemish club has become champion, Bruges, I hope you, as a West Flemish, are proud to have succeeded. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this text will provide even more football fun in the coming weeks, now that the important World Cup is at hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u76	Mr President, this text has the merit of broadening the concept of at-risk football and therefore increasing the number of events for which it will apply. It also has the merit of reconsidering and improving the provision of security to be put in place, taking into account effective technical means. This text therefore makes it mandatory to provide for the material means for the safety of everyone: spectators, organizers, clubs, security officials and obviously players. In particular, a whole new chapter on the installation and operation of surveillance cameras – a very important material element – is inserted. There is also an obligation to provide for greater, more effective human resources through the recruitment of stewards and liaison officers between clubs, supporters and administrative authorities. They are very important officers to coordinate all security stakeholders, as well as mandated security officials. In committee, we found that members of the majority expressed similar concerns, particularly regarding the cost to organizers and consistency with the provisions on surveillance cameras, with the application of the GDPR. The text has also been amended and amended. It was quite surprising to see the number of amendments that were introduced. As a result, we have been able to arrive at a balanced text that really meets the concerns of security officials. I am thinking in particular of the mayors. As the mayor of a small town, I will not have to apply this text, but I know how important and secure it is to be able to rely on texts that make it possible to operate and put effective means of security, in connection with the importance of events. For all these reasons, our group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u77	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u78	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2475/11) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2475/11) The bill has 56 articles. The bill has 56 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u79	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u80	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Peter De Roover, Ahmed Laaouej, David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael, Meryame Kitir, Jean-Marc Nollet, Catherine Fonck. Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will of course vote in favour of this law, since it is a restorative law that enables the Privacy Commission to operate. Indeed, the law we passed in December 2017 is imperfect. I'm intervening to express some kind of annoyance, Mr. President. The Prime Minister and Minister De Croo, in response to questions I asked about the impact of the Cambridge Analytica scandal in Belgium, said that the solution was the implementation of this data protection regulation. This regulation will be implemented effectively because it applies directly, but also because Belgium will have taken measures. For example, in order to enforce this GDPR, the aim is, among other things, to provide Belgium with a body capable of penalising non-compliance with this regulation. In Belgium, it will be the Data Protection Authority. That is why a law was passed in December 2017. However, this obviously ill-written law was imperfect as a restorative law had to be voted in March 2018. Today, we are voting for a third restorative law. And I learn no later than yesterday in the Conference of Presidents that all the group leaders will operate, as for the law we are voting today, with a fourth piece of legislation to make sure that they stick to the European regulation. Four restorative laws! Mr President, you will confess that this is problematic. That is not all: a framework law that implements other aspects of the GDPR will soon be tabled on the benches of the House, although it could have been introduced when the law was passed in December 2017. Mr President, we have, for the first time in the political history of this country, a Secretary of State responsible almost exclusively for privacy. We all, the opposition and the majority, welcomed this sign. Today, with this third piece of legislation and soon the fourth piece of legislation, it must be noted that Secretary of State M. De Backer is no use! I would have hoped that, one day after the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation, we would really be ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u83	Mr Hellings, I can only take note of your statement, since the government is not here to answer you. In agreement with all the group leaders, we have decided to allow the Privacy Commission to continue its work now. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u84	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3104/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3104/4) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u85	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u86	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot agree with the proposal for a resolution No 3097/1 to exclude certain persons of dual nationality from governmental and other public functions. If this motion for a resolution were to be adopted, some members of our House could not have been ministers and others could not be ministers tomorrow. This would not only be scandalous, it would also be contrary to a fundamental principle which is that of the equality of all Belgians without distinction. This applies in particular to the performance of public functions. I must not recall Article 10 of the Constitution. This would be a clear violation of the Constitution. That would be a clear violation of the text in question. As a result, I cannot agree with this consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the PS Group, I would like to join Mr Delperée's statement. Some – especially the far right – do not like it, but there is no Belgian nationality at the discount, whether you are "only Belgian" – as they say – or whether you have a dual nationality and, moreover, whatever the other nationality. The rights are identical, and we like to repeat it. As Mr Delperée has pointed out, this proposal is clearly unconstitutional and violates fundamental rights and the rule of law. Anyway, Mr. President, she's basically lamentable. We cannot accept that such a text should be taken into account in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u89	Mr President, first of all, it is well known that there are two interpretations about the consideration of state law. On the one hand, there is the Dutch interpretation, which assumes that any proposal submitted can also be discussed. On the other hand, there is the French-speaking interpretation, which we do not hear for the first time here, which seems to refuse the debate in advance and without hearing any arguments. In any event, my group will not follow the second French interpretation. I am very curious to see what interpretation the Dutch-speaking groups will follow, including those groups that have talked very often about the abolition of dual nationality. Secondly, I do not need to comment on the basis of the motion for a resolution. I simply note that there is a debate going on in the Netherlands, that the debate can be held there, apparently contrary to what the French-speaking groups want here. In the light of the freedom of expression, in the light of the debate which can apparently be held in other countries and which is indeed taking place there, and in the light of what the Flemish parties have always done to date with consideration, my group will support the consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u90	Mr President, the debate on the recitals is, of course, a very old debate. I remember how, twenty years ago, we were put in a position to debate this issue by the French-speaking parties by failing to consider a bill on Flemish independence. What we are experiencing today has been experienced a number of times in recent years. In the case of subjects and subjects on which French speakers do not want, dare or can debate, they end up trying to make the debate impossible. I would like to point out that the recital is a formal procedure and not a substantive procedure. The consideration merely means that we are judging by the form and not by the content. I should also like to point out that my group leader, barely a week ago, tabled a proposal in this hemisphere to delete the recital and to do as in the Flemish Parliament and I believe in the Walloon Parliament, where there is not even any consideration. It exists with us, and we have to follow this procedure. But if the procedure does exist, then we must judge by its form and not by its content. So let us do so, Mr President. I appeal to you and to the Rules of Procedure to limit the consideration to what it serves and not to extend it to some sort of extra muzzle to restrict freedom of expression and to prevent the debate in Parliament. References to Article 10 of the Constitution make it impossible for any debate on sensitive issues, such as the subject of dual nationality, and certainly for officials such as ministers and relatives, to take place. This debate is not only raging in our country, but also in other countries, and is the result of lax nationality legislation and mass immigration. Both ensure that it is not always clear what loyalty is being played, that of the country of origin or that of the country in which one resides and of which one has acquired nationality. However, these are all arguments on the substance and not on the form. I had promised to abide by what the consideration requires us to do, namely to judge the form. Is there a formal problem with this motion for a resolution? No, in any way. Let us confine ourselves to that. I invite all my fellow Members, including the French speaker, to conduct the debate with arguments pro and contra. We shall do so with enthusiasm. But do not avoid the debate and do not be afraid of the debate. Do not use free speech as a function of your own politically correct opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u91	Colleagues, may I ask your attention? Everyone needs to be up to speed right now. It concerns the consideration of the proposal for a resolution tabled by Mr Dewinter, Mrs Pas and Mr Penris on the exclusion of persons of dual nationality from the functions of government and other public authority. I am applying the Rules of Procedure. I quote Article 75 (5): 'Is the proposal supported by at least five Members', I understand from the speeches made earlier that five of them are actually being discussed 'and the President shall consult with the Chamber, which shall either consider the proposal submitted to it, or defer it, or declare that there is no reason to discuss it'. I understand that the consideration is being asked de facto. I therefore propose that we vote on this in the usual way, with a vote on it and a vote on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, since there is a lack of clarity, we are going to vote in favour of the recital. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 78 Yes No. 31 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 134 Total The motion for a resolution will therefore be put to the vote at the next voting time. 3097. Consequently, the motion for a resolution No 3097 is taken into account. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u93	Mr President, I abstained because, as I have done so many times, I want to make it clear once again that, apart from the content on which it is concerned, my group always approves a recital in principle, because it is necessary for a Parliament to be able to debate everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u94	Thank you, Mr Dewael. Are there any other comments? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No further observations? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u95	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law authorising the establishment of an international non-profit association for the management of the South Pole Base "Princess Elisabeth" and abolishing Chapter I of Title V of the Law of 24 July 2008 laying down various provisions (I), No 3047/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill authorizing the establishment of an international non-profit association for the management of the Polar Station "Princess Elisabeth" and the repeal of Chapter I of Title V of the Act of 24 July 2008 containing various provisions (I), No. 3047/1. I give the floor to Secretary of State Francken to justify the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u96	Mr President, the urgent request for this draft law is justified by the fact that the draft is part of the agreement concluded between the Belgian State and the International Polar Foundation in mid-2017. The adoption of this draft law is linked to the donation of the remaining 1/1000 of the property of the South Pole Base Princess Elisabeth, making the Belgian State the sole owner. In addition, the Ivzw Pool Institute, which provides a stable framework for the future management of the Antarctic base, can only enter into force once the draft law has been adopted. In order to safeguard the interests of the Belgian State, therefore, urgency is required.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u97	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u98	The Justice Commission is currently discussing the reform of criminal law, which was announced in the so-called "Justice Plan"′′. The discussions will be thematic. The first theme to be addressed is the ′′Nut of punishment′′. The Justice Committee is currently examining the reform of criminal law, which was announced in the ′′Justice Plan′′. The discussions will follow a thematic order. The first theme addressed is ′′The meaning of punishment′′. By letter dated 17 May 2018, Mr Philippe Goffin, Chairman of the Justice Commission, stated that the Committee considered it useful to submit this issue to the Supreme Court for its opinion. By letter of 17 May 2018, Mr Philippe Goffin, Chairman of the Justice Committee, announced that the Commission had found it useful to submit this topic to the Supreme Council of Justice for its opinion. I suggest that we give our opinion on this request today. I propose that we take a decision today on this request. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would remind you that, pursuant to Article 259a-12 (1) of the Civil Code, the majority of the members of the Chamber must give their opinion on the request for an opinion. I would remind you that, pursuant to Article 259bis-12, § 1, of the Judicial Code, the majority of the members of the Chamber must rule in favour of the request for an opinion. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court asks for the opinion of the Supreme Court of Justice. Accordingly, the Chamber seeks the advice of the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u99	Mr President, I have a vote with Mr Van Mechelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u100	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3024/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3024/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u101	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 130 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3003/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3003/5) Mrs Smeyers voted in favour. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u102	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 130 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (2475/12) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2475/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u103	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. (3104/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3104/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u104	Mr President, I voted like my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-24-54-plenair-ip230x.u105	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 31 May 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, May 31, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 31 May 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 31 May 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
