ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u1	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, this question is a little old. Indeed, I had filed it in December 2017. Had to report it, I can only put it to you today. Under the previous legislature, we witnessed a restructuring of the decentralized offices of the FPS Finances, which resulted in the closure of approximately 400 offices, including the direct contribution offices that welcome our fellow citizens for tax and community services. In return, the Finance FPS has opened eleven infocenters in the country with the slogan "to better serve you!" The work done by Finance staff in the offices that have been abolished should not be underestimated. In fact, we are witnessing a centralization and the eleven infocenters compensate for the closure of these offices. In this context, on the Finance website, we can read: "To make your service faster and of better quality, we provide you with eleven infocenters located in buildings, which allow us to receive you in good conditions and on axes well served by public transport." The debate on public transport would raise other issues for other ministers! We're talking about a "faster and better quality" service, but in December 2017, the press reported that these infocenters have been inaccessible by telephone for many weeks. We saw a saturation of the entries to them last December, which upset and irritated taxpayers who no longer knew who to turn to. From now on, citizens must move to these infocenters located in medium-sized or large cities and, unfortunately, in rural areas, public transport is very few if not non-existent. This creates a real mobility problem for taxpayers who have lost that proximity. We hope to find something else to compensate for or replace those offices that have been closed. We are thinking here of the infocenters, but also of the permanences organized by the SPF Finances in communal premises, for example, in partnership with the municipalities. Minister, what about this inaccessibility of the telephone over a period of time? Is this problem being resolved or is it in the process of being resolved? Then, do you confirm this overload of work that has caused problems in the functioning of the infocenters as well as in their relations with citizens? What measures have you taken to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u2	The infocenters are intended exclusively for the reception of citizens face to face. For telephone contacts, citizens can always call our contact center directly. For more specific questions that require consultation of the personal file, the user can also contact his/her local office. The Brussels Infocentre is experiencing acute personnel problems in matters relating to the general administration of collection and recovery. Indeed, a new payment strategy has been launched within this general administration. This new strategy relaxes the rules for short-term repayment plans. This relaxation of regulation has resulted in an increase in the number of applications to be processed. For all other locations and all other matters other than those dealt with by the general administration of collection and recovery, i.e. the general administration of taxation, there is no overburden of work in relation to the situation prior to the introduction of the infocenters. At the Brussels Infocentre, the recruitment of six additional statutory staff is carried out to answer questions relating to matters relating to the general administration of collection and recovery. Other infocenters will also fill the staffing gap for these materials by also training new agents. In addition, communication campaigns explain to users that an electronic alternative exists for most of the services they come to search for in our infocenters. For example, among all our visitors who visit our infocenters for questions related to the general administration of collection and collection matters, 42% come to prepare a payment plan and 16% come to change the account number while these two services are also available online on MyMinfin. As far as Tax-on-web is concerned, the number of permanences organised in the municipalities to help taxpayers complete their tax returns is still being examined. No significant change in the number of these permanences is expected in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers and explanations. I hear that the infocenters are the front office in relation to the people. As a result, telephone problems fall under another service. Measures are being taken to strengthen these services with additional staff. It is also very important to train these people. Computerization, like Tax-on-web, etc., develops over the years. However, there is still a part of the population living in the digital divide. This is a reality for older or less educated people, with whom we must always keep direct contact. I say that taking into account the geographical configuration. Relocating to a city is only possible on the basis of a public transport offer allowing it, which is not always the case. In short, even if electronics and information technology are developing, it is important to remain in direct contact with citizens and taxpayers and to be attentive to these elements. This is not really the subject of my question, but indirectly, because maintaining decentralised permanences in the communes, although statistics are not legion in this area, allows a service of proximity for this population who are experiencing difficulties in moving and who will not necessarily use electronic services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u4	Mr Minister, the Law of 25 December 2017 on company tax reform amended, inter alia, Article 53, 6°. The amendment extends the scope of the non-deductible fines. The proportional fines relating to a deductible tax also constitute non-deductible professional costs. The increases in social contributions are also added to the list of non-deductible expenditure. Moreover, the non-deductible nature of fines was confirmed by competition authorities. All administrative fines imposed by public authorities also constitute non-deductible professional costs. This new regulation applies both to natural persons and to companies and will enter into force on 1 January 2020. However, Article 53 (5) of the Income Tax Code provides that the increases in taxes relating to the real-estate withholding tax on immovable property or parts thereof used for the pursuit of professional activity are to be regarded as professional costs. I should like to have an answer from the Minister to the following questions. Does the amendment to Article 53, 6° also aim to exclude the tax increases relating to the property tax as a professional cost? Should Article 53, 5° and Article 53, 6° contradict each other, does the application of the adadium in dubio contra fiscum also apply in this case? In other words, do the increases relating to the property tax on immovable property used for a professional purpose continue to be considered as a professional cost, even after 1 January 2020? If there is any contradiction, will you take an initiative in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u5	Mr Van der Donkt, the amendment made by the company tax reform law to the Article 13, paragraph 6, of the WIB 92 mentioned by you has no impact on it and is therefore not contrary to Article 53 (5) of the WIB 92. There is therefore no need to take a legislative initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for this clear and strong answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u7	Mr President, Minister, Belgium issued guidelines on original labelling for colony products before the European Commission notice was published in July 2014. It has therefore been four years since specific labelling for these products should be applied. However, Israeli settlement products are still marketed without proper labeling on the Belgian market. Indeed, in September 2017, several press articles noted that colonial products had been entering European territory for more than four years, with trade preferences. The European Union's representation in Tel Aviv confirmed that it was difficult to determine the origin of products beyond the green line, following the introduction of seven-digit postal codes. The list of postal codes concerned must be constantly updated in the light of the constant expansion of the colonies. Since 2015, difficulties in implementing the technical arrangement have led the European Union to propose another control system based on the official numbers of Israeli localities, whether in Israel or beyond the green line, available to the Israeli Ministry of the Interior. Israel rejects this solution proposed by the European Union, considering that the existing technical arrangement is working satisfactorily. When asked by my colleague Marie Arena in the European Parliament on 20 February this year about the precise statistics on the number of products from the colonies entering the European Union market, the number of checks and the amount of customs duties recovered on the products of the colonies which have benefited from preferential tariffs, the Commission replied that "it is the customs of the Member States which are the only ones to have the data on the entry of the colonies' products". Mr Minister, would it be possible to have these statistics available on the volume of products declared as originating in Israeli settlements, which do not benefit from the preferential tariff? Would it also be possible to have statistics on the volume of settlement products, entering with preferential tariff and therefore declared as originating from Israel, but where customs found that it was a settlement product? This would allow us to know the extent to which these products arrive in our territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, the available PLDA (Customs and Excise) data makes it possible to verify that on the customs declaration the ISO Alpha-2 IL code, for Israel, or PS, for the Occupied Palestinian Territories (i.e. the West Bank, including East Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip), has been indicated in box 15a dedicated to the country of dispatch or export code, or in box 34a (of the country of origin code) of the single document. Certificates of origin were provided according to the codes given in box 44 (special information and documents produced, certificates and authorisations) of the single document. The postal code is mentioned on the certificate of origin, which makes it possible to verify whether the preferential rate applied for is applicable. This postal code must be compared to a list published by the European Commission. Since this certificate of origin is then not registered in the electronic domain of customs PLDA, it is impossible to provide retroactive figures in this respect. Let me turn to your question about the controls. Here are the results of the controls since 2015 related to the relevant selection profile. A total of 867 control results at the item level were recorded: 511 in 2015, 282 in 2016 and 74 in 2017. Nineteen results were non-compliant: 15 in 2015, 3 in 2016 and 1 in 2017. I would point out that these non-compliant results also refer to other types of fraud mechanisms (e.g. false denomination). Of the 19 non-compliant control results I have just mentioned, there was only one non-compliant control result related to the original fraud mechanism, specifically concerning Israeli settlements (in 2017). This non-compliant control result represents additional customs duties of EUR 4,541 (rounded).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. In my view, the mechanisms in place to detect the origin of these products do not seem optimal. In other exchanges I have had with the Minister of Economy, I have learned that there are problems with the method of detection. You don't specifically mention it. However, we can welcome the controls which are taking place and which, in some cases, have enabled the identification of certain products. Unfortunately, at this stage, some still pass through the meshes of the net. In this connection, I will now question the Minister of Economy, which will allow me to cross-check the elements of the answer between them and to return, if necessary, to you or to him to see what improvements could be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u10	Mr President, Minister, on 13 March the European Commission adopted new transparency rules for intermediaries, such as tax advisers, accountants, banks and lawyers who design and promote tax planning plans for their clients. This political agreement has been concluded between the various Ministers for Economic and Financial Affairs of the European Union. Once the measures are in force, tax intermediaries that suggest complex cross-border financial arrangements to their customers that can help evade tax will be required to report these structures to their tax authorities. In turn, EU Member States will exchange this information, which will strengthen the control of tax planning and tax advice activities. Did Belgium have specific requests when drawing up these new European rules? Do you think that they are actually sufficient to avoid a new financial scandal... (...). Tax fraud goes beyond the borders of the European Union. Do you think that these new transparency rules can inspire other legislation outside the Union? Have sufficiently dissuasive sanctions been introduced to avoid further fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u11	My colleague, Belgium has supported the Commission's proposals to increase the transparency of intermediaries, namely accountants, lawyers, consultants, etc. They set up tax optimisation mechanisms for the benefit of their customers. Belgium also supported the proposal to ensure that the administrative burden required to administer this exchange of information is balanced with the effectiveness of these new rules. In order to ensure a level playing field for the effective exchange of information and to ensure full transparency in the circumvention of Common Reporting Standard (CRS) legislation, the European Union has expressed its strong support for international action to implement mandatory disclosure rules to counter CRS avoidance arrangements and opaque structures. In order to take account of the work carried out within the OECD, a specific marker for automatic exchange of information and beneficial owners was added. The goal of this marker, among others, is to provide an indication of abuse or tax evasion in order to identify potentially aggressive tax arrangements. The Directive provides that Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and shall take all necessary measures to ensure the implementation of those sanctions. The penalties provided for must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u12	Mr Minister, thank you and I would like to take this opportunity to say so to a member of the PTB: I fully support you in both your actions, namely, the reduction of the tax burden and the effective fight against tax evasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u13	Minister, De Tijd of 13 March 2018 reports that Flanders is getting more and more income from detecting fraud in child benefit. Indeed, the amount recovered increased from just EUR 350 000 in 2014 to EUR 1.85 million in 2017. The number of fraudulent files is also increasing: from 258 in 2014 to 944 in 2017. Fraud in family allowances is mainly caused by false statements about the composition of the family. Sometimes one or more family members no longer stay in Belgium. Being a member of the family on 1 January of the year of attack is also a condition to be eligible for an increase in the tax-free allowance for dependent children. Those who fraud with child benefit automatically also commit tax fraud. Currently, the Federal Agency for Family Benefits (FAMIFED) is still responsible for the checks through its Social Fraud cell. FAMIFED now automatically shares data with other social security institutions, inspection services and public prosecutors. One of your predecessors replied that there is no automation of the control of the number of dependants only on the basis of the National Register. In other words, checks on the number of dependents are not carried out systematically. Minister, I would have liked to have had an answer to the following questions. Is the tax authority automatically informed by the fraud cell at the Federal Agency for Family Allowances in the event of child benefit fraud? Does this systematically lead to an audit of the tax file with regard to the number of dependent persons? Does the tax authority have access to the register of FAMIFED's family allowances in order to consult cases of child benefit fraud? Are there any guidelines in the tax administration to pass on residence fraud in relation to dependent children to the fraud cell at the Federal Agency for Family Allowances? If the consultation of child benefit fraud reveals that an undue tax advantage was also used by the taxpayer, will the tax authority intervene? If so, how and how much did it bring to the tax administration for taxes, tax increases and fines due in 2016 and 2017? If not, why not? Has it already been agreed with the various Communities in this country that the tax authorities will have access to the data of possible child benefit fraud from 2019 onwards to detect tax fraud resulting from the improper use of the tax advantage for dependent children? Does the tax authorities also use notifications from the website Contact point for a Fair Competition that explicitly allocates a separate heading to child benefit fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u14	First of all, I would like to point out that an infringement of social legislation does not necessarily give rise to an infringement of tax law, given the diversity of both laws. All information received with tax implications, whether it is notifications via the Fair Competition Contact Point or the results of checks carried out by the social sector, will be taken into account in the treatment of tax files. At present, the alleged infringements of the composition of the family, established by FAMIFED, are not automatically exchanged with the tax administration. In tax matters, the number of dependent children is monitored and verified, regardless of the family composition and also taking into account the income of the children. Unfortunately, more concrete figures are not available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u15	I thank you for your brief answer to the seven questions. I hope that this dossier will continue to be followed up by your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u16	Minister, section 86 D of the Corporate Tax Reform Act of 25 December 2017 states that any amendment made to the closing date of the accounting year from 26 July 2017 shall not be effective for the purposes of the provisions of the above-mentioned Reform Act. Can this provision be considered to apply only in the event of a voluntary change in the closing date of the accounting year? As a result, a company that would wind up and close in 2018 would not benefit from or be subject to the provisions introduced by the above-mentioned reform law applicable from the 2019 tax year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u17	Mr. Piedboeuf, under the terms of the provision invoked, any change in the closing date of the accounting year shall be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u18	Minister, that answers my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u19	Minister, can persons entitled to the employment bonus on ONSS contributions related to their earnings also benefit from the low-income business tax credit, since these remunerations are also income from activities referred to in section 289ter of the Income Tax Code 1992? I do not detect any regulatory provisions that exclude the simultaneous application of both benefits. Thank you for confirming this analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u20	Mr Piedboeuf, there is indeed no legal provision excluding the simultaneous application of the two advantages mentioned in your question. It is understood, however, that both the conditions for applying the low-income tax credit and the conditions for applying the tax credit/employment bonus must be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u21	That goes without saying. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u22	Minister, my question concerns the calculation of the maximum participation of 30% of the share capital. Can you confirm that the assessment of the maximum limit referred to in Article 14526 § 3 is based on the share capital and that the calculation is based on the number of shares or shares? The fact that an issue premium must be paid to acquire the new shares or shares issued as a result of the capital increase does not interfere in this calculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u23	Mr Piedboeuf, I confirm that the calculation of this 30% representation must be based on the number of shares or shares which represent the share capital of the newer company. The emission premium shall not interfere in the calculation of representation of 30%. FAQs were written by my administration and published on the Fisconetplus database. FAQ 6.1 provides examples of the 30% limit calculations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u24	Thank you, Minister. I haven't seen him yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u25	On 27 July 2011, the European Commission decided that the funding of tests for transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (BSE tests) through state resources for the period from 1 January 2003 to 30 June 2004, for amounts exceeding EUR 40 per test, is incompatible with the internal market and must be recovered. The Court of Justice of the European Union condemned our country, by a judgment of 13 September 2017, for failing to take all necessary measures to recover from the beneficiaries the aid in question, declared illegal and incompatible with the internal market. Minister, can you confirm that the amounts to be repaid in this context are not sanctions and therefore constitute deductible professional expenses, including interest, by applying the principle that "the accessory follows the principal", even if this principle until then unanimously accepted has been severely undermined by the recent reform of corporate tax? What about the taxpayers who opted for the lump-sum plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u26	Mr Piedboeuf, under ordinary law, the amount of the State aid referred to, to be repaid on account of its illegality and incompatible with the internal market, as well as the related interest, may be deducted in respect of professional costs, provided that the legal conditions are complied with. In the case of farmers taxed according to the flat-rate bases of taxation, which must comply in all respects with the rules of common law, this principle was taken into account when drawing up them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u27	Minister, that answers the question. If this has been taken into account for the lump sum bases, there is no reason to do anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u28	Minister, the Advance Rulings Service has admitted that revenues from green certificates are not taxable and fall under the normal management of private assets when the installation of solar panels that are the source of electricity generation is used exclusively in the private sphere. When an independent individual uses his or her panel installation both to meet the electricity needs of his or her business, and also to meet the private consumption of his or her household, how is the sale of surplus energy taxed? The operation of solar panels which do not require any particular organisation or regular activities, it seems difficult to consider it to be a professional income. How can a breakdown be carried out in practice according to the three pre-described uses of electricity produced? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u29	Mr Piedboeuf, when an independent person assigns all or part of the solar panels to his professional activity, the product of the sale of the energy produced is to be added to his professional self-employed income, in the same proportion as the professional assignment of these panels.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u30	Thank you very much, Minister, for all these clarifications that allow us to move forward with the drafting of tax returns.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u31	Mr Minister, Article 90 (1) of the WIB states that profits are taxable at a rate of 33% as diverse income if they are realised outside the normal management of a private patrimony and outside any professional activity. Thus, when an added value is realised in the sale of shares and when it is not the normal management of a private patrimony, the added value can be taxed as a diverse income at a rate of 33 % Firstly, how many taxable persons have the added value achieved in the last five years been included in the declarations as diverse revenues? Secondly, what was the total corresponding taxable amount of those declarations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u32	Mr Vanvelthoven, I would like to present to you a table of the numbers requested for the last five years of attack.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u33	Mr President, Minister, this oral question has come because I have not yet received an answer to a previous written question of May 2017. I would have liked to have received information from you regarding the whole of the declarations in which a legal construction was reported under code 1077, for each of the tax years 2015, 2016 and 2017. I would have liked to have received the total amount of non-compulsory movable income to which the general rate of withholding tax applies. These are codes 1160 and 2160. I would also like to receive the total amount of compulsory movable income to which the general rate of withholding tax applies, as set out in codes 1444 and 2444. Finally, I would also have liked to know the total amount of foreign real estate income. These are codes 1123, 2123, 1124, 2124, 1125, 2125, 1130, 2130, 1131, 2131, 1132 and 2132.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u34	Mr Vanvelthoven, I will present to you the complete table containing all the figures you are asking for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u35	Minister, in December 2017, many taxpayers who worked in the Netherlands received a letter from the Dutch tax administration. From 2018 onwards, payroll taxes relating to their supplementary pension will be deducted. Moreover, they will be taxed again in Belgium. Until now, this deduction has been waived in the Netherlands. How many pensioners in Belgium are covered by the reverse rule in the Double Taxation Convention? How many so-called Nederbelgen have challenged the Belgian supplementary pension tax since 2013? How many of them have gotten right before the court of appeal? Minister, can we expect a legislative initiative from you to resolve this double taxation in a structural manner?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u36	Mr Vanvelthoven, first of all, I would like to say that the administration does not have fixed own figures. It is on the basis of the information provided by the Dutch administration that the Belgian administration nevertheless has an overview of the pensioners concerned. On the basis of the information currently available to the administration, it concerns a group of about 1 500 people. However, that figure evolves. Pursuant to international legislation and agreements in international working groups, figures on the exchange of information obtained from abroad, with or without reference to specific countries, are confidential and should not be communicated publicly. No specific statistics are kept on the number of disputes relating to the supplementary pension of the so-called Nederbelgen. Furthermore, I have instructed my administration to examine how the Income Tax Code can best be adapted, so that it can no longer be disputed that Dutch occupational pensions as a pension are taxable in Belgium and are therefore not taxable in the Netherlands. I will refer the outcome of the mission to the government as soon as possible. In order to avoid double taxation of such supplementary pensions, I have concluded an agreement with the Dutch Secretary of State for Finance, in which it has been agreed that the Belgian and Dutch tax administrations will exchange the necessary information, so that a tax on supplementary pensions can no longer be applied in both countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I live in the border area, so you understand that I have to deal with that regularly. I await the legislative initiative, which your administration will propose if necessary. Can you get us the agreement with Secretary of State Snel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u38	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u40	Mr President, Minister, you stated that certain taxpayers of the BBI will be invited, or have already been invited, to act as a rule through the Regulatory Contact Point. You also stated that the taxpayer's file, which does not comply with this invitation, will be transferred to the court, so that it can launch an investigation on the basis of the crime of money laundering, included in the penal law. Mr Minister, how exactly is it determined which taxable persons are to receive such an invitation to act as a rule at the Regulatory Contact Point? Based on what criteria will selection take place? Can you confirm that it concerns taxable persons, from whom the administration has established or at least suspects that certain income has not been declared? Can you confirm that it concerns taxpayers, whose administration suspects money laundering? How are these taxpayers invited to contact the Regularisation Contact Point? Does that happen in writing? How many taxpayers have already been invited by the BBI to set up regularisations at the Contact Point?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u41	Mr President, Mr Vanvelthoven, the selection criteria and the strategy for the various control actions of the BBI have only been laid down for internal use and cannot be communicated for obvious reasons. I can also confirm that the files in which the FBI suspects that certain revenues were not reported. Then, of course, the BBI only carries out tax checks and it is up to the judicial services to investigate the problem of money laundering further. Contacts with taxable persons may take place both in writing and orally, depending on the situation and nature of the file. Finally, it is premature at this stage to give numbers or results as the actions are often in their start-up phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u42	Minister, you did not answer my last question, in particular whether you already have an idea of the number of taxpayers invited by the BBI.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u43	It is premature at this stage to mention numbers or results as the actions are often still in the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u44	I will come back to that later, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u45	Mr Minister, on 20 October 2017, the Council of Ministers notified a decision on the method of estimating tax revenue. I quote: 'A task force will be set up to review the method of estimation against the next budgetary control'. From your answer to question No. 18266 from Mr Temmerman told you that the 2017 budgetary control still took place on the basis of the old estimation method. From the explanatory statement to the 2018 budget, it can be inferred that the format of the 2018 budget also took place on the basis of that old method of estimation. I understand that the 2018 budget control was completed last week. I would like to know whether this budgetary control was based on the results of the renewed model of estimates, as you announced at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u46	The estimates are still based on current estimation models of the FPS Finance. It is these models that will also be used effectively for the budgetary adjustment and have been used for the budgetary adjustment 2018. The Court of Auditors carried out an audit on the estimates of tax revenue in 2017. This audit does not really call into question the most important model of estimation, the so-called disaggregated model. In addition, the task force decided to carry out an in-depth analysis of the method of estimation used through a university study. The contract has recently been awarded and work has recently started. Given the complexity of the analysis, the necessary time is foreseen for this. On the basis of the conclusions and proposals of this study, the models will be further improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u47	It's a little bizarre. You are now saying that it is all very complex and that a university study should be linked to it. But you have said for two years in a row that there is a systematic error in the method of estimation, every time we ask you if the figures are correct. Now we're two years ahead, and now we're going to study it. It's one or the other. If there really is a mistake in it, it is right that you should sue it and that this should be adjusted. But you cannot do both: on the one hand sue and on the other hand proceed with what you are suing. This undermines your credibility, or at least the credibility of the statements you made at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u48	Mr Minister, can you confirm or deny that certain KPIs relating to collections or collections are imposed on BBI officials or management?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u49	Mr Vanvelthoven, the management plan of the FPS Finance 2017 indeed contains KPIs for the staff and general administration, including the BBI. The sums collected and collected per official of the BBI are measured by two different KPIs. For the amounts returned, the target value shall be EUR 750 000 per official per year. For the amounts collected, the target value shall be EUR 125 000 per official per year. In the management plan, which you can consult on the internet, you can find more details on page 4 and next on how the KPIs were compiled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u50	Thank you for the explanation, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u51	Minister, Le Soir on Monday, March 12, reported a new slip in the revenue level of the furniture discount. The report of the Monitoring Committee confirms this observation: the receipts recorded in the first months would be largely insufficient compared to the forecast and would suggest a gap of EUR 979 million over the year, in SEC terms, representing a shortfall of almost 20% of the total planned for this item. This is considerable and truly worrying, when we know that the income from the household allowance also contributes to the financing of social security. Moreover, this is not the first time that the receipts of the household discount do not meet expectations: the slippages for 2016 and 2017 were around the billion euro. However, this has already been stressed many times. Recently, the Court of Auditors, in its report on the draft state budget for 2018, had both called into question the revenue forecasts and regretted the lack of information on how they were calculated. Finally, the Court of Auditors had also criticised "compensation between different categories of tax, i.e. the withholding tax and miscellaneous taxes, which reduces the transparency of the revenue budget. Improper allocation of the household allowance also has consequences for transfers to social security." Could the Minister of Finance provide us with more explanation of the causes of this slippage? Can he also give us more details on the method of calculating the forecast of income from the household allowance? Is this method revised in the light of current results? What are the particular difficulties encountered in forecasting this type of tax? What is the impact of the compensation between different tax categories, highlighted by the Court, on transfers to social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u52	Mr Minister, the Monitoring Committee's report shows that the revenue from the withholding tax of nearly EUR 1 billion, EUR 979 million to be precise, was overestimated in the preparation of the 2018 budget. This isn't the first time. It's the third year in a row that there's been a huge overestimate. The low interest rate can of course not be an excuse. I have just looked at the interest that the Planning Bureau has taken into account in the preparation of the initial budget and in the control. There's a difference. I would like to hear from you the explanation for that difference of nearly a billion. What is the adjustment in ESA? To what extent is the estimate of tax revenue generally adjusted?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course I understand and share your concern about the evolution of revenue from withholding tax. While the overall tax revenue is perfectly at its level, the revenue from the withholding tax is indeed not evolving as foreseen. This applies both to the input tax collected on the taxation of dividends and to the input tax collected on the taxation of interest. As regards the revenue generated by the withholding tax on dividends, it should be noted that my administration is investigating the real causes of this evolution. It was found, among other things, that the internationalisation of the shareholding of our companies already explains a significant part of the weak growth, despite the fact that the tariff has evolved from 25% in 2015 to 30% in 2017. In concrete terms, this internationalisation is reducing the real taxable base as a result of the European Parent-Subsidiary Directive. For obvious reasons, this element was virtually impossible to foresee. The behaviour of shareholders and the evolution of this shareholdership is indeed difficult to predict, but the impact does reach hundreds of millions of euros. An additional effect arises from the fact that until 2017, companies could still distribute dividends through a reduction in their capital. This is no longer feasible from 2018 onwards, as a result of measures taken in this area, notably in the reform of ISOP. Second, there are also losses in the value of the movable pre-payment on interest. Of course, interests have reached a historically low level, so much so that savers have sought alternatives. There is a switch between the distribution SICAVs to the capitalization SICAVs. In addition, there is also a switch between the various compartments of SICAV. This is due to the fact that the discount is due at a later date. Finally, in general terms, it can be expected that there will also be a Laffer curve effect here, i.e. a shift due to the increased tax burden. All these elements are currently part of a systematic, thorough analysis carried out by the administration and of which, of course, I will present the results to the government in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u54	Mr President, I am surprised by the Minister's answers. Finally, he referred to a number of parameters that had already existed in previous years: the evolution of the international environment, the anticipation of investors' behaviour which, due to low rates, could transform or move their investment products to other investment products. Not all of these parameters are new. That's why I think it could have been anticipated at the time of the initial, rather than having far too optimistic forecasts on the side of the furniture discount. It seems to me that this is putting the government in trouble, because it must find that, in the end, the revenues are not there. With the furniture discount, it can be collected quickly, since the taxable period corresponds to the tax year, which itself corresponds to the fiscal year. It is thus immediately noted that there is a shortage of money. It would be appropriate for the office of the Minister of Budget to be more reasonable in the estimation of personal expense revenues at the time of budget preparation. For the rest, the effect of the liquidation reserve is still very strong, in my opinion. Because of the system that was put in place, there was, at some point, a special one shot assessment on the liquidation reserve. It was an anticipated recipe, of course, but it causes a slowdown in the revenue of the furniture discount. Today, the government cannot be surprised and attribute to external factors the drop in income from the household discount. All this was predictable. From the outset, at the time of the initial stage, it was necessary to be much more reasonable, much more factual in the estimation of the revenue of savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u55	Mr President, Minister, you know that I have already questioned you on a number of occasions and have criticised the fact that the revenue from many of the measures you have put in place in this legislature, including the increase in the rate of withholding tax, is systematically overestimated. This is also an example of this. I just said this is the third year in a row. I do not understand why it is only after three years, in which people are always heavily under the estimate, that something is going to be investigated. You mention a number of elements, but they were also known last year when the budget was drawn up. This is being sick in the same bed and permanently making the same mistakes. I can only tell you that correct estimates are fundamental if we are to come to Parliament with a correct budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u56	Minister, the Constitutional Court destroyed the articles of the Programme Act of 1 July 2016 on the abolition of the VAT exemption for online gambling. According to the Constitutional Court, the federal government has not complied with the division of powers and has come into the territory of the Länder. In the budget, the federal government subscribed 78 million euros a year for the measure now destroyed. Minister, has the negative budgetary impact of that judgment been taken into account in budgetary control? Will you take a legislative initiative to levy VAT on gambling?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u57	Mr Vanvelthoven, the Constitutional Court indeed destroyed on 22 March in its judgment 34/2018 Articles 29 to 34 of the Programme Act of 1 July 2016, which removed the VAT exemption for online gambling. The Constitutional Court recognises, on the one hand, that the VAT measure does not directly affect the taxable matter of regional tax on games and bets. On the other hand, the Court considers that a measure has been taken that reduces the taxable matter by making the provision of games and bets more expensive and therefore less attractive. The latter is sufficient for the court to speak of a violation of jurisdiction. However, it is not yet clear from what point in time the judgment will have a real impact on VAT revenue. On the other hand, it is certain that the consequences of the judgment do not apply retroactively. In the meantime, I have instructed my administration to consider whether and to what extent the consequences of the judgment can be remediated. Therefore, no precise budgetary impact based on that judgment on VAT receipts for the financial year 2018 cannot be calculated at present. Therefore, bearing that in mind, we could not take that judgment into account in the recent budgetary control for 2018. The administration keeps me informed of the evolution of the case. Only when all the elements are known exactly can the precise impact for the financial year 2018 be completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u58	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u59	Mr Minister, I quote from the press of 26 March 2018: "It is difficult for us to be more precise: the budget tables for this exercise will first be provided to parliamentarians". Mr. President, I'm looking at you. Did you get the numbers? He says no to me. I was even able to read a statement in which he expressed his discontent. Minister Wilmès replied that the figures were not yet available and therefore could not be communicated. Minister, I do not understand how the government manages to make a conclave and agree on the figures and, when it comes to communicating these figures, says that it does not have one! It's quite incomprehensible. In addition, Minister Wilmès refused an exchange of views this week in the House's Finance and Budget Committee. In my opinion, Easter holidays are coming, two weeks will pass and, after these two weeks, no one will be interested in the budget. It is no coincidence, moreover, that the Prime Minister's Powerpoint contains virtually no figures, which is quite remarkable when it comes to budgetary control. Minister, how can the members of the government agree on the figures in the Council of Ministers if these figures are not ready? Can you give me the amount of each of the measures decided upon during the budgetary control, possibly in writing? Do the conclave's corporate tax decisions, particularly for executives, have an impact on the 2018 budget? Can you break down the total amount for the budget year into the following categories: - Technical corrections - which could be called "budgetary manipulations", to which you are accustomed? - New tax and social gifts to capital? - Austerity measures for the civil service and social security? - The few social gauges the government added to make pretty? The Cayman tax is one of the few items for which there is an amount. It appears that the initial return of EUR 510 million was reduced to EUR 150 million by the Monitoring Committee and that the government raised it to EUR 510 million, making an easy "effort" of EUR 360 million. How were the amounts of EUR 510 million and EUR 150 million determined? Why did you review the amount determined by the Monitoring Committee? How is it that the Cayman tax is still accounted for in fiscal efforts in 2018 when it is an old measure that should simply be in the mass of previous tax revenues? I have the impression that every budget control comes back with that Cayman tax, which is a very old measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u60	Mr President, I would like to return to a very specific point in the budgetary conclave, namely the EUR 462 million in budgetary costs of the tax shift, which we are told must be borne by the Regions. The budgetary conclave recovered from its revenue a sum of EUR 462 million which would correspond to the fact that the cost of the tax shift would not have been taken into account in the estimation of the calculation of the tax of regional natural persons. Given the 750 million saga, you can understand that questions arise about the reliability of the tax data that have been validated by the government. Should it be inferred that the Regions will have to repay this amount in the course of 2018? If not, how can it be explained that this correction only affects the federal state budget? Have you been able to identify the sources of these successive errors in the assessment of regional PPI revenues? What do you intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u61	Mr Van Hees and Mr Laaouej, as the Budget Minister has explained correctly, the figures and the budget tables will be provided to Parliament shortly. Notifications, which are obviously included in the budgetary control exercise, have not yet been finalised and have yet to be approved by the Council of Ministers. This should be done on Friday. As with all previous budget conclaves, the measures must be included in the final version of the current budget. It goes without saying that all the figures are first rechecked before implementing the budget. With regard to the transparency tax, the various measures taken in this respect set the return on the tax at EUR 460 million in the 2015 budget conclave. At the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017, it was decided to strengthen the transparency tax on eight specific points. This results in an additional revenue of 50 million from 1 January 2018. The technical correction of 463 million concerns the tax shift and is not at all a miscalculation. This does not impact the 2018 budget, for the Regions. The calculation of the impact of the additional measures 2018, as part of the tax shift, is correct. In 2018, this cost is fully borne by the federal professional discount, as these additional measures relate to the 2018 revenue year. In 2019, however, this cost will be partially transferred to local authorities, following the sixth state reform. In fact, regional tax autonomy for the tax of natural persons is granted through the additional cents which are pre-financed by a system of advances. The cost to the Regions of additional measures related to the tax shift will be realized during the 2019 tax year and will therefore be borne by the 2019 regional budgets via the advance system. In 2018, nothing will be transferred to regional budgets. This concerns a shift in time. But to the extent that the cost to the federal authorities from 2019 onwards will be partially transferred, it is not a "structural" cost to the federal authorities. As a result, it does not make sense to take new budgetary measures up to EUR 463 million, which is why this element was technically corrected during the budget conclave, by reclassifying it as a non-recurring or one-off cost for the federal budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u62	Minister, I am not so satisfied with your answer. You tell us that the budget figures will be provided shortly. I'd like to know what that means. As I understand it, this is simply the moment when we are going to officially receive the whole budget package. That is not what I am asking you to do. When the government meets in a budgetary conclave, the various parties of the majority agree on the figures, perhaps not to the decimal point, perhaps with global envelopes for certain posts, etc., but the agreement is about numbers. If a minister comes here without anything, "all naked", present us with a Powerpoint practically without any encrypted data, what does that mean? This means that the government is uncomfortable with the exercise that it has just concluded. This means that there are large manipulations of figures, and perhaps even more important than in previous fiscal years, where we still have more figures. This means that social "measurers" are so ridiculous that we don't even want to give them. This involves austerity measures and gifts to the capital - substantial gifts but not to be shown immediately, with the hope that the debates will settle after the Easter holidays. That is the reality of the government's attitude and your response, Minister. As for the "opacity" tax, a more appropriate term than "transparency", I did not understand your answer. You have confirmed that this is a 2015 tax: 460 million were registered in 2015. Then you tell us that in 2017, we subtracted $50 million. That this discussion is about the 50 million, a recent measure, I understand, but not that we are going back to the 460 million of 2015, or that this recipe is put back on the table of each discussion and recycled in each fiscal year!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u63	Mr President, I hear the Minister's reasoning and I have two questions. First, why wasn't things done at the initial? I don't understand why? What made no one realize that a technical correction had to be made immediately at the initial 2018? Secondly, I would like to come back to mechanics for a moment. Basically, you give the tax shift through the professional discount. There is a reduction in the professional discount recipe, and this is obviously the responsibility of the federal government: the money does not enter its caisses. The following year, at the time of enrolment, the regional additions that are influenced by the tax shift came into play. In other words, there is a decrease in regional additions which, not as a consequence, reduce the revenues of the Regions. Therefore, it could be considered that the budgetary cost must be borne by the Regions. We could have a different reasoning that I'd like to test with you. This different reasoning would be to say that year N, there is a decrease in the professional discount that is supported by the federal level. In the year N+1, we are rather witnessing a decrease in regional additions, which is supported by the Regions and which obviously generates a smaller advance from the federal level towards the Regions, i.e. it is by this lesser advance that things would be settled between the two levels of power. This is the other reading that one could have cash and budgetary mechanics between the federal level and the Regions. At this point, I take note of your answer and of the fact, in your opinion, that the 2018 budget of the Regions is not affected. That's an important answer. It is only in 2019 that things should be settled for the Regions. So we'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u64	Mr Minister, employers can today encourage their workers to come to work by bicycle. They can apply 120 % deductibility for this purpose, which also applies to bicycle storage. My question is whether these bicycle storage facilities can also be used by the customers of those companies? If so, then that's good news. If not, what about mixed bicycle sheds?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u65	The law provides that the increased deduction of 120 % of the costs incurred for the stable of certain bicycles and speed pedelecs is reserved for the costs specifically incurred to encourage staff to make their commuting trips with such bicycles or speed pedelecs. This means that the increased deduction is intended only for the costs of parking for bicycles and speed pedals reserved for staff. The cost of parking for bicycles and speed pedals of customers and staff, which clearly indicates that specific places are reserved for staff, is eligible for the increased deduction in proportion to the number of places reserved for staff to the total number of places. The rest of the costs are in principle deductible at 100%.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u67	I would have liked to draw attention to compliance with maternity rest when inspected by the FPS Finance. An independent accountant supervises routine checks for her customers. She is entitled to seven days of prenatal rest and 14 days of postnatal rest during her pregnancy. This is very short, especially compared to employees and civil servants. Both before and after birth she was allowed to lead a control. The inspectors did not wish to make an exception for her pregnancy. They replicated that, strictly speaking, she should not be present at the checks. However, we can well imagine that the customer always expects the control to go smoothly and to prepare for it. What is FPS Finance's policy in such situations in the field of routine checks? What is FPS Finance's policy in such situations in the area of heavier cases? What does the Minister consider socially reasonable in this regard as regards the right of every mother to maternity leave?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u68	Mr Bogaert, in principle the administration is free to organise its investigative powers. It must, of course, always take into account the legal constraints imposed on it, which may require a short-term check in certain cases, for example, for possible limitation periods. Of course, the administration must always make informed use of its investigative powers and, as far as possible, try to take account of the availability of the various parties involved. However, a taxable person is not obliged to be represented by an accountant during an audit. Also in the case of VAT, the presence of the accountant during a check is not required by law. However, the administration accepts that the taxpayer chooses to be represented at that time by his adviser. The powers of investigation shall be exercised in an informed manner and, as far as possible, the availability of the parties concerned shall be taken into account. Since there is no time limit for examining VAT, a routine on-the-spot check could in principle be postponed for a few days for the reasons cited. However, this is not always possible, for example when the limitation period approaches or when the return of the tax credit is checked. It is clear that the situation you are describing is a specific case. I therefore propose that you refer this case to the FPS Finance Office so that they can clarify this particular problem further.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u69	Minister, this is of course a specific case. For understandable reasons, these people do not want that to happen, which is why they end up with a representative of the people who can then ask what the policy is about. I'm just paraphrasing what you're saying about VAT. In such a situation it would not be appropriate to push through, as it is not time-critical. In this situation, unless it is a matter of heavy weight or a large BBI check, we should be able to count on the reasonableness of the tax authorities when carrying out a routine check. If such a reason is put forward, it should be possible to postpone it a little. If, in the seven-day period of prenatal rest and 14 days of postnatal rest, one really pushes through and does the check anyway, then the female independent consultant who works alone will have no choice but to prepare the files during that period, if she does not want to lose that customer. I therefore call for this to be passed on and for an internal directive to be adopted so that this can be done reasonably.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u70	Minister, for many years, the FPS Finance provided every citizen, on the Internet, with a tax database - including the various tax codes - called Fisconet and then Fisconetplus. Today, access to this site requires a registration through the creation of an account with the US multinational Microsoft. This is particularly challenging. I was able to see this myself on their website: https://minfinfisconetapi.azurewebsites.net/customlogin. It reads: "Welcome to Fisconetplus. Log in and access our online tax database for free (...) To access your search and consultation area, you will need to enter a Microsoft email address and the associated password (...) This is your first visit to our site? Use your Microsoft email address directly to register. You will receive in your mailbox the confirmation of your registration and the link to connect to our database. Don't you have a Microsoft account yet? Create your Microsoft account via the following link and come back to sign up on this page." After registering on Microsoft, I was unable to access Fisconet anymore. On the other hand, after just a few seconds, I received an e-mail from Microsoft offering me one of its products, unrelated to the tax database. Why did FPS Finance stop free access, without registration, to Fisconetplus? Why did you link this registration to the creation of an account with a multinational, in this case Microsoft? What tasks are performed by Microsoft? Can you provide me with the contract between this one and the FPS Finance? Is it legal and ethical to oblige citizens to create an account with a private company to access the database of a public service? Is Microsoft paid by FPS Finance to manage this access to Fisconetplus? Or, on the other hand, is the FPS Finance paid by Microsoft to enable it to capture data from potential customers? If so, for what amount? Their page states that "the FPS Finances pays great attention to the protection of personal data. To this end, only the data required to provide a high quality service are requested. With regard to this data, useful measures will be taken to ensure the protection of your privacy." But what about privacy protection for Microsoft? What information is held by the multinational and what control is exercised by the Belgian authorities on the management and use of this data by Microsoft?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u71	Mr Van Hees, the new Fisconetplus portal was launched on Monday, February 26. It is hosted in the Federal G-Cloud and developed on a Microsoft SharePoint platform. Access to this platform requires the creation of an account. Microsoft prohibits anonymous access to its platform. Creating an account is easy and free. Access to information therefore remains accessible to all. Users who already have an account at Microsoft, either because they have a hotmail address or because their business address is Office 365, do not have to create a new account. Their address is sufficient for access, as indicated in the page. For other users who wish to create an account, any email address outside Microsoft, such as Skynet, Gmail, Telenet, Belgacom is sufficient. The current home page, which could lead to confusion, is being rewritten in this direction. Mandatory registration at Fisconetplus allows the SPF to offer personalized services to each user. These services are grouped into the MyFisconetplus space. From now on, each player can build their own library and put alerts on documents allowing them to be automatically informed by email of changes to this content. Further developments will help to safeguard annotations or share them through social networks. These services are free of charge. The Microsoft account is not used by the FPS to create a potential relationship with a natural or legal person. It only serves to allow this identifier to find its favourites. Moreover, this account does not guarantee that its name is the real name of the person, which is not the purpose sought. Microsoft's tasks are available and available at www.privacy.microsoft.com. The contract used by the FPS, and all other FPS, is a framework contract that allows the acquisition of licences 0.3.6.4. The obligation to create an account is legal. The benefits for users are undeniable. This practice can be found among a range of public services, such as the IOTA (Intra-European Organisation of Tax Administrations), through access to its publications or rebroadcasts at the request of RTBF. Authentication of the official source is reinforced by this access. For their internal needs, the various SPFs have acquired Microsoft licenses. These give the right to use them for our applications; Fisconet is one. There is no remuneration of any kind for access management. As indicated in the answer I have already given, all the information is given on the page I have just quoted. Among other things, I quote: "Security. We will ensure that we protect the data you entrust to us through enhanced encryption and security features. Strong legal protection. We will respect the existing local rules on confidentiality and support the legal protection of confidentiality as a fundamental right. No targeting based on content. We do not use your chat feature, the content of your emails, your files or any other personal content to target our ads to your needs." Microsoft is in any case subject, on European territory, to the European General Regulation for the protection of personal data, as well as to any other Belgian or European rules in this field. If there are any questions or complaints, the Privacy Commission will consider them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u72	I didn't get it right, minister. Did you say we changed the listings on the site? Are you telling us that it is not mandatory to have a Microsoft address or in the company's lead in order to be able to register? Or is it still mandatory?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u73	I read my answer: "Users who already have an account at Microsoft, either because they have a hotmail address or because their business address is Office 365, don't have to create another account. Their address is sufficient for access, as indicated in the page. For other users who wish to create an account, any email address outside Microsoft, such as Skynet, Gmail, Telenet, Belgacom is sufficient."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u74	So we're still in Microsoft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u75	Skynet, Gmail, Telenet, Belgacom, it's not Microsoft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u76	In any case, I had tried with an ordinary address – not Microsoft – but it didn't work. It was stated that it was mandatory to register with Microsoft to access it. That's pretty amazing! If you tell me that we've changed the way we sign up on the site, that's why.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u77	In my opinion, the following sentence has escaped you. I repeat: the current home page, which could be confusing, is being rewritten in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u78	All right. This means that the page specified that you had to have a Microsoft address, but that was not true. At least this has been changed. So the corrected page will tell us that such an email address is not required. Of course, this fundamentally changes the problem at the origin of my question. I hope this is a writing error, but I have the impression that it was worse and that people were being encouraged to take a Microsoft address, so that this company could sell its commercial products. I experienced it myself when I signed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u79	Mr Minister, my first question is very simple. Does the government intend to take Belfius to the stock market, even if there is no solution for ARCO? I urge you to do that again, because you made it very clear in plenary last week that the solution for Belfius is there, but does not really provide a solution for ARCO. This raises the concern that one might intend to do one without the other. I would like clarification on this, also in the light of your statements of last summer on both an IPO and a solution for ARCO. Has that changed or not? Secondly, how much percent are you willing to release for the initial public sacrifice (IPO)? You have already answered the question of how much you intend to release in total in plenary. That is 49.9%, I have noted, unless something has changed there. How many will you start with? How much will you bring forward in total? Thirdly, what guarantees are there regarding the social aspects, including employment, and the ethical standards in the privatisation of Belfius? In 2017 there has finally been movement in our country in the banking sector around the theme of divestment. Belfius is not doing well on the bank hand. Belfius also has the specificity of a workforce that has had to be restricted by the restructuring in recent years through natural redundancies. More than 1 300 full-time employees had to leave in this way. According to internal sources, the current workforce is sufficient for the core tasks. If this were to be saved after privatisation, it could be a social massacre. My question is very simple. Given the local anchoring of the bank with a high cost, given that the process of natural redundancies in recent years is coming to an end in ten years' time, this is obviously something else, and given that the impact of the essential risks from the Dexia period can still be felt for ten years, what guarantees in terms of employment and ethical and environmental standards of the bank will you provide in the event of an exchange? In this respect, it is already not doing well and the sofa is already on the gums in the social field. Moreover, the very important service provided to the local authorities, to which they also hope, has a corresponding effect on the bank's cost picture. Fourthly, have agreements been made with Belfius on investment in their own country and in local authorities? What guarantees are there in this respect at the moment? I do not need to remind you that the Community credit was the basis of Belfius, who is world leader in expertise with local authorities. What will happen to the division that grew out of the City Credit at the time? Do you have any guarantees from the previous question as to how this know-how and investment in local authorities will be dealt with? Fifth, there is also an art collection. At the time of the first and second rescue operation, your predecessors were already wondering whether or not it should be sold. Now, at a time when we are talking about privatisation, it seems logical to me, from the social and social interest and after the rescue of the bank, that the art collection should remain entirely in public hands. It seems to me totally irresponsible to use them now in privatisation. I'd like to know your views on that. We held intense debates on this issue at the time. When the institution was to become a government bank, we were sure that the collection was safe. Can we be certain of that now? What are your plans on this, since the collection is not private property, except for the citizen and thus all of us? Sixthly, I was talking about the local anchoring of a partial privatisation. According to 2016 figures, there are now 6 428 employees and 696 offices. Is there a phasing-out plan for the office plan in our country or not? Seventhly, a very important question concerns an issue on which we have held debates in the various special committees and committees of inquiry, namely remuneration policy. What arrangements do the current government have with the Board of Directors of Belfius on remuneration? Will these agreements at the time of privatisation change anything, or will the government stick to the remuneration policy that has been agreed here and now? I would like to know that in order to be able to inform the public fairly about the possible consequences of partial privatisation. Will the government maintain its own line in this respect? Anyway, I'd like to know what that line is today. My final question goes on to the bank's score in the bank guide, to which I just referred. I asked you two years ago a written question about investments in projects that are harmful to the environment, such as the North Dakota Pipeline by BNP Paribas, in which the government has a representative. Many banks have withdrawn from it. Unfortunately, I did not receive an answer from your cabinet at the time. She was just sent back without an answer. Since I am still concerned, I would like to ask you the following question orally today. When it comes to ethics and the score of Belfius at the moment in the banking guide, do I wonder if there is a plan for divestment and for more ethics? The last debate we had was about the presence in tax havens. Has there been any progress in this respect? There was a call from the World Bank to stop investing in fossil energy. Did the government convey that message? What will be the position of the government in regard to divestment and tax havens now and after the IPO?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u80	Mr Minister, my question relates to one of the components on which my colleague Meyrem Almaci was asking you, namely the carbon footprint of Belfius. I shall briefly draw up the retroacts on this subject, which is very important to us. I hope he is for you too. In April 2017, Proximus joined the club, important to us, CO2 neutral companies for 2016. Other well-known and leading Belgian companies include Spadel, Lotus and Le Pain communautaire. In terms of respect for the environment, these positive behaviours exist and are applied within certain companies, in connection with the Paris and Marrakesh Agreements, and with COPs 21 and 22. One example is that on 16 November 2017, more than 100 leaders and investors met with members of governments, civil society and the United Nations as a sign of their commitment and support to the Paris Climate Agreement. It is in this context that several companies, including Vinçotte and co2logic, created the label "zero emission". This assessment is based on the BSI's international CO2 neutrality standard. The label is obtained after calculating the CO2 emissions of a company or product. Residual emissions must be offset by supporting climate-certified projects. Emissions are evaluated, actions are taken to reduce emissions, and the remainder, if any, are financially supported for climate-certified projects. This service exists for industrial enterprises, SMEs and public authorities. Proximus, as a public company, was a pioneer since it became carbon neutral for its operations in 2016. It has also managed to reduce its CO2 emissions by 4% compared to 2015. Over the past six years, its carbon emissions have decreased by 32%. That is quite significant. I want to ask you about Belfius, still a public bank. Indeed, according to the information available, we know that the bank emits 15,900 tonnes of CO2 per year, and that the estimated cost of achieving neutrality or zero carbon emissions would be €75 000 per year. I imagine that this does not represent too much effort or investment for a company of the size of Belfius, especially in view of the significant positive impact it would have on the environment and on the climate. This would also be an example, coming from a public bank. Minister, what is the carbon balance of Belfius? Do you confirm the numbers I quoted? What mass of CO2 should the company compensate to date to be emission neutral? Has Belfius put in place specific actions to improve its carbon footprint and reduce its CO2 emissions? Does she, like her colleague Proximus, intend to obtain the label "zero show" for the entire Belfius group?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u81	Mr President, it is a bit surprising that all these questions, which have nothing to do with each other, are joined together. Their only common point is that they all concern Belfius. As my colleagues have told you, the privatisation of Belfius would be a regrettable political choice. The State would thus deprive itself of a valuable instrument. But, beyond the economic issue, the privatisation of Belfius would also be a terrible threat to Belgium's cultural and historical heritage, as Mrs Almaci mentioned. Should I remind you that Belfius rightly prides himself on holding the country's largest collection of Belgian art? This collection has more than 4,300 works of art and results from the merger of the collections of Crédit Communal de Belgique, Paribas Banque Belgique and BACOB Banque. After the Second World War, both Crédit Communal and Paribas Belgium began to acquire valuable works linked to the Belgian national heritage, in order to prevent them from disappearing abroad. That was their goal. From the beginning, Crédit Communal focused on Belgian art from 1830 onwards, while Paribas concentrated mainly on works from the 16th to the 18th century. BACOB bank began its collection in 1980 and turned to contemporary art. Today, this collection covers almost five centuries of Belgian art. In other words, this collection goes from Rubens to Alechinsky via Magritte, Brueghel the Elder and James Ensor. Today, a privatisation of Belfius would endanger a collection that has been made over nearly seven hundred years for the benefit of all Belgians. We are obviously aware of this risk since the beginning of the legislature. That is why I tabled a proposal in November 2014 to protect the collections held by our public companies. The majority's rejection of this proposal in May 2016 has unfortunately reinforced our fears and, today, the much feared scenario seems closer than ever. Minister, have any measures to safeguard the collections held by Belfius been envisaged by the government in the event of privatisation of the bank? What guarantees do you have that these works will remain in Belgium and accessible to all in the medium and long term? I also find that these collections should be visible to all Belgians. That was also the will of this resolution. Indeed, there is no reason why such jewels can only be accessed by some.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u82	Minister, in the 19th century, Liberal Walthère Frère-Orban created several public financial institutions because the private sector was unable to perform certain functions of general interest and was the source of financial crises. Thus were created the CGER and the Crédit Communal. For more than a century, they worked perfectly. But it took only a decade after they were privatized to sink. Yet, in 2008, the government re-privatized Fortis. As for Crédit Communal, it is known that it was its privatization in Dexia and its entry into the stock exchange that was fatal to him. However, the government decides, again, a stock exchange of Belfius, the successor of Dexia. The voluntary world is mobilized against this privatization. Not just to keep a public bank, but to make it a real public bank offering a series of advantages that I list below. I want to ask you about the advantage of a Belfius bank on the Stock Exchange. First, a public "truly" bank, without a deficit, is not obsessed with profit hunting, a source of high-risk practices, as demonstrated by the 2008 financial crisis. Putting a bank on the stock exchange means engaging it in this race to the maximum profit. Today, banks' returns rise to 10% in Belgium, double the euro area. [[It is as if no lesson had been learned from the 2008 crisis!]] Secondly, a "true" public bank is at the service of its customers. It can provide the public with access to local banking services, to available staff, at reasonable rates, to a lending policy that avoids both too much restrictions and too easy credit leading to over-indebtedness. Thirdly, a "true" public bank is at the service of the country's economic and social functioning. It can, while remaining cautious, offer loans to SMEs that are now struggling to find financing. It can also pursue a coherent and sound policy of government financing. Fourthly, a public "truly" bank can guarantee an ethical policy (the issue was addressed by colleagues) by avoiding tax fraud and questionable financing, such as in the arms industry and in multinationals that are not respectful of the environment or human rights. Fifthly, a public "truly" bank can respect its staff and employment, which is far from the case in the Belgian financial sector, as demonstrated again by the brutal restructuring plan at ING or the development of the unit remuneration system at BNP Paribas Fortis. Sixthly, a "truly" public bank can be managed in a democratic manner, with public authorities combining staff and customer representatives to define strategic policy and control management, so that the institution is truly at the service of the community.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to provide an overall answer to the many questions. I will respond separately to Mr Vanden Burre's questions, which deal in particular with the theme of ecology and the role of Belfius in this regard. In contrast to many insinuations, in this case of Belfius, the partial admission of the stock market would inevitably lead to a reduction in the risk for the Belgian taxpayer. I should like briefly to say that there will be no change in risk after the IPO because the government will still remain the majority shareholder, that we will not plan major interventions in the bank's organs and that we will continue to tighten supervision. However, the answer is much broader. Indeed, as a result of the rescues of Fortis, Dexia and Ethias, the majority of the portfolio of the Federal Participation and Investment Company is still very focused on the financial sector. Just as we Europeans, in the framework of the Banking Union, are trying to make shareholders pay for losses in a future financial crisis, it would be a pity that the citizens of this country would again suffer because the government did not reduce their interests in time. The losses to the Belgian taxpayer at Belfius could be even greater because the European legislative framework, in particular the rules on state aid rules, makes it more difficult for public authorities to intervene than for private parties. As a result, the Belfius Stock Exchange allows us to react more quickly and efficiently to crisis situations through access to financial markets. The increased transparency resulting from stock exchange listing should further support the management of Belfius by enabling all stakeholders, both financial and other, to follow much better the policies and risk profile chosen by the bank. The latter will also make it much easier for third parties to assess Belfius on ethical, social and environmental objectives. In fact, I would be very surprised if the next crisis were Belgian. Our financial center isn't that big. This also allows the taxpayer to recover some of his or her money. In my view, the authorities have already had to take a huge risk in rescuing the banks, and I believe it is very important, both economically and politically, to recover these investments, as is the case with other countries. In addition, this operation offers opportunities for the management of public finances for this and subsequent government. Indeed, Belgium remains faced with historically high public debt and needs to be further addressed in the interest of future generations and taking into account the many challenges ahead, such as the ageing of the population and the energy transition. Although the contribution to reducing the debt of the sale of part of Belfius is limited, this is once again an important signal that this reduction is a priority for the government. This is in line with the improvement of the primary balance and the sale of other interests, such as those held in BNP Paribas. The current dividend is already increased and can be supplemented by an additional dividend from the 2017 profits as long as it does not, of course, endanger Belfius' solvency, which will be analysed in the coming weeks on the basis of the first quarter figures. I share your wish to guarantee the financing of the Belgian economy, but I have a different view on how that can best be achieved. For example, opposition banks sometimes vote to make Belfius an instrument of public policy. I could simply refer here to experiences from a recent past, when politicians also tried to play banker. However, a more complete answer is that good Belgian projects are financed and that bad projects should never receive funding, either from Belfius or from another bank. A bank balance sheet should also not be used to remove public investments which are mainly local and regional matters from the public balance sheet. Fortunately, this is closely monitored, on the one hand, by the organs of Belfius itself, on the other hand, by the national and European supervisors. We have just lifted surveillance to the European level to prevent these national destructive reflexes. I will continue to stress the importance of good governance not to repeat the mistakes of the past. In this respect, we have already made enormous progress in our financial participations. The principles we lay down will provide a Belgian anchor for the benefit of the Belgian public and companies, taking into account the legal framework for listed credit institutions and, of course, the wishes of the supervisors. In order to stimulate public investment, I think it would be much better to work hard on sound fiscal policies and deleveraging in order to create the necessary budgetary space. The money from the stock market can be a further incentive for this. As mentioned earlier, Belfius will continue to support the Belgian economy, whether quoted or not. To ensure that this is done properly, good governance is paramount for the Belgian State, for Belfius and certainly also for the supervisors. With regard to Belfius's art collection, the government's aim is to ensure that it remains in Belgium and is actively managed. This involves, among other things, the regular opening of the collection to visitors, lending to museums and updating the collection through regular purchases of works by Belgian artists. In preparation for the partial entry into the stock exchange, a consultation is under way between the government, the SFPI and Belfius to anchor these principles. I do not think that the claim that our SMEs have difficulty accessing the Belgian banks is correct. Since the crisis, banks have been focusing more on local markets, and in Belgium this has not caused us anything. However, it is important to ensure that Belfius does not lose its focus. Much attention now goes into the preparations to ensure that Belgian anchoring is specific. Therefore, a possible public exchange will not change the current vision, strategy and value of Belfius. Therefore, it remains the intention of the majority shareholder, the board of directors and the management of Belfius to remain present in the same way in the Belgian economy, to continue the current business standards and the human-relation strategy, whether or not there will be a public exchange. Belfius will continue its public and social sector funding strategy and activities. Moreover, the government is taking specific measures for those segments in the SME market that are difficult to obtain bank financing, mostly because of the restrictions that we impose on banks in this respect. For example, I refer to the many measures to support start-ups and scale-ups and the wider public of SMEs. I also share your desire to offer the employees of Belfius a good future perspective in this sector, which is in fact undergoing a major change at the moment, due to various factors. Thanks to the efforts of the employees, the management and the board of directors of Belfius and the understanding and patience of the customers and the shareholder, I have been able to see tremendous progress, both financially and in terms of governance, since the beginning of the legislature. In order to enable Belfius to develop in the best conditions and to give greater flexibility in the management of its capital, while maintaining a strong Belgian anchor, the stock exchange is the next logical step. This gives the best guarantee to employees on quality jobs at the service of the Belgian economy. As with previous stock exchanges, we will allow them to purchase shares of Belfius at a discount. Finally, the advisors indicate that the valuations of financial shares are currently favourable and we get nice dividends, rising payments in corporation tax and good returns from other taxes. However, during the crisis, we saw that valuations can fall dramatically and profits can be lost quickly. This is not about savings, but about shares, and these, as we all know, are far from risk-free, especially when it comes to shares in the financial sector. I hope I can only refer to the expected uncertainties surrounding the frictions in international trade or the phasing out of the monetary stimulus to convince you of those latter elements. For all these reasons, the partial non-entry of Belfius would be a missed opportunity. I therefore fully support the government agreement, which states that the government aims to maximize, in a timely manner, participation in the financial sector in a thoughtful manner. A first cross-sectional study – the Star study – was conducted for this purpose at the beginning of the legislature. Subsequently, an in-depth pre-study was conducted on participation in Belfius. On the basis of these elements, the government decided last summer to partially privatize Belfius up to a maximum of 49% of its capital in the form of a stock market entry to be prepared by Belfius' management. This preparation has been perfectly well carried out so far and the entry on the stock exchange with the summer holidays is technically possible. This is now a political decision. As I have already answered very specific questions, the legal advisers strongly advise me not to make public statements on timing and valuation during this preparatory period, and on the percentage of participation that will be brought to the market. All details of the transaction should be included in the prospectus. The final characteristics of the transaction will certainly depend on market conditions. Finally, with regard to Belfius and ARCO, I can refer to the answer given yesterday by the Prime Minister in the Committee on the Interior on the state of play. With regard to the talks with Europe, which, as you know, are very important in this matter, I will not say anything, and I fully agree with the Prime Minister's reply yesterday in the Foreign Affairs Committee. I do have an answer for Mr Vanden Burre. Mr Vanden Burre, with regard to your first question, as a responsible insurer, Belfius focuses on the operations that cause the greatest environmental and climate impact: energy consumed by our buildings and for the movement of staff, the consumption of paper and the sorting of waste. The carbon footprint of the Belfius group in 2017 was estimated at approximately 15,700 t CO2 eq (tonnes carbon equivalent). This figure will be published in the bank's annual report, which will be published in mid-April. Adding the missing gas consumption data from employee network agencies, the amount of CO2 would amount to about 17,600 t CO2 eq. For your second question, for years, Belfius has been launching specific actions to limit its carbon footprint in terms of building sustainability and mobility. Over the past 10 years, primary energy consumption at headquarters has been reduced by 70.6 per cent. Belfius has been consuming exclusively green electricity since 2008. The abandonment of the Galileo building in 2018 and the increase in telework are also expected to contribute to reducing the company's energy consumption in the years to come. Then, less and less paper: apart from energy resources, paper is the main resource consumed by Belfius, with almost 1 000 tonnes per year. At constant scope, the decrease has been 49.7% over three years. Belfius is also making great efforts to reduce the printing of account extracts from its customers, by encouraging their digitalization. In 2017, the share of print-outs sent to customers by bpost decreased by 42% over three years. I'm going to waste sorting. In 2017, Belfius removed individual cabinets from its staff during the digitization of its services. This led to a one-off increase in the quantity of certain waste at the central office compared to the previous year: residual waste (+ 20%) and paper for recycling (+ 39%). The heavy waste reduction (-36%) recorded at the headquarters between 2013 and 2016 was tempered by this clean-up operation. In five years, however, the decrease has reached the rate of 26%. Finally, sustainable mobility between home and work remains one of the strengths of Belfius because, in 2000, an ambitious mobility plan was put in place, which encourages the massive use of public transport and bicycles, while discouraging the use of the car solo by charging car parking to bank staff who go to work in Brussels alone in their cars. The result is that in Brussels, 78.7% of the bank's staff travels daily to work by public transport. Only 16.7% go to work alone by car. Finally, telework, which is constantly increasing, has a very positive effect on mobility. The 120,974 days registered at Belfius bank in 2017 are equivalent to 605 workers, which corresponds to 9.4% of the staff who will have been removed daily from car lines and trains crowded during peak hours. This trend is expected to increase further in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u84	Minister, both the last answer and large parts of the answer to my questions are special alongside the issue. Your answer, which I would also like to have the written version of, is therefore an answer in which you often contradict yourself in a global context. I fully agree with you that politicians should not bank. This is also a recommendation from a number of committees, a recommendation also followed by the N-VA. For example, there would no longer be any cabinet staff and active politicians on the boards. However, not so long ago, the N-VA sent a Head of Cabinet of Minister Muyters to the KBC to sit on the board of directors. I fully agree with you that politicians should not bank, but I do not agree with you that politicians should not issue guidelines for the financial sector. However, that is what you, your predecessor and the predecessor have left behind, both for the banks we have had to take over, and for the financial sector as such. Each time the choice is made to leave the big banks and the mentality of the big banks untouched. This is evident from your answer to the last question and from the answers you have given earlier. Nobody says politicians should be banking. We say, as Greens, that we have the task of deploying a government bank in the best possible way. In our view, this is by giving directives which are socially, ethically and democratically transparent. You said in your reply that a beating will offer more transparency than it is today, while we are 100% shareholder. That's the world upside down. We in Parliament have the right to ask for any information about the bank at any time behind closed doors, because we are 100% shareholder. You know that. You have access to that information. For you, that 100 % should be transparent. Otherwise, you're not doing your job right. That's a statement. It is true that there is more need for transparency and conditions when going to the stock market, but the question is whether it is worth it. I disagree with you on that. In fact, you say that our country will be safer if we privatise again. That's what you said. If we privatise, we will be able to react faster and more interactively to international crises, you say. A little later you will say that there are no more Belgian banks that play at a high level and that we are not in danger. You're contradicting yourself. You say that we must do this because of international crises, but we are not actually playing with Belfius internationally. Two cases one. This is about the ambition of the board of directors, which now wants to grow back after many years of difficult restructuring. Nothing more or nothing less. We disagree with them. You agree with them. I see great dangers in this, because of what we have been through. You have still not been able to digest the lessons of 2008. You're forgiven. You are a supporter of a completely different view of the economy than we are. However, that vision has long and many times proved its own insolvent. Scotland, a region in England with a decent economy that wants to become independent, yet a fact that makes the N-VA heavily charmed, is setting up a national promotional bank to create a government bank that is going to make investments, while we want to get rid of our government bank that we have in our hands. You say it's part of the way, but you still don't say how much. You say you can't say it yet, but you don't really know how much you're going to go to the fair in the summer. You don't really know it yet. You haven't figured it out yet. It's still part of the negotiations. I see that in other countries government banks are being transformed into national promotional banks or that new banks are being set up. We have an instrument and we give it out of our hands. Then it sounds very nice to say here that there are guarantees for the staff. Then I want to see it. As a Member of Parliament today, I would like to ask what the social framework agreed with Belfius is now and after privatisation. I also ask what the framework is for ethical standards. I want to know the guidelines the government has given the bank to withdraw from tax havens, to withdraw from fossil energy. What are the standards? I'm now officially requesting it to check whether your claim that it's not going to change that will be correct. I would like to ask you what the directives are on local anchoring and agreements. How do we see that? How do we plan that in five and ten years? I'm asking you for that information. I am entitled to that as a Member of Parliament. I am now formally asking you to do so. You are not going to get rid of vague commitments that cannot then be met by saying that it is about the dynamics of privatisation. You can't say that you're gonna give guarantees while you're well aware that from the moment a private player comes along, they're gonna put some things on the table as well. I want to know how you're gonna deal with that. I want to know how the government is now saying who it will or will not go with and what the bottom line for it is with regard to the demands of a new investor. I want to get a look at this. In any event, I am asking for the answers you now claim in writing that you can give a good perspective to employees. This good perspective is not just the ability to buy shares. That is also some clarity about the future of their job and whether they will be victims of restructuring purely in order to boost profits. It is about the number of local offices and how many of them may disappear. Or are you currently going to pursue the current policy around these offices? Will there be an accelerated discharge or not? I want firm guarantees from you, Minister, also on paper. You are not going to get rid of it by saying so easily in very general terms that you are concerned but that the IPO is the best guarantee. You and I know this isn't the case. This is evident from all the files on large banks in recent years. You may have missed BNP Paribas, you may have missed ING, you may have missed what went on at a number of other banks. You may have noticed by now that what I predicted last year about the banking tax and the complaint against it is now before you. I do not want to come back here in a year's time and note that what was said then came true. So, please, effectively remove Minister Muyters' cabinet chief from the board of directors, honour the recommendations of this Parliament but also honor the demand to finally make that banking sector more social, ethical and ecological. Use Belfius as an instrument to invest in the local economy, not by going to the stock market but by giving them the necessary guidelines and realising the guarantees that taxpayers are entitled to. So I am explicitly asking those additional answers on paper and I am also asking for the Prime Minister's answer to the framework around the art collection. That art collection is a fine example of where it's crooked. You don't have to sign a covenant. In fact, you just have to decide that you're going to put that art collection in a museum right now and that she's not going to stay in the bank in any way. You may think ideologically that you should go to the fair, but it is not enough after the acquisition of such an important cultural package of paintings to leave it with Belfius and to lend it to some museum once in a while. It's in your hands now. From a cultural and social point of view, it seems logical to me that the collection should remain in the hands of the taxpayer. This isn't gonna affect the IPO. You know very well that other questions may arise as soon as another player signs up. So at least protect this art collection. That's the minimum you can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u85	Unfortunately, I had to leave to ask Minister Jambon a question, but I will read the minister's answer. I guess my arguments were not enough for him to become a fan of public banks. He has probably made a flamboyant plea in favour of the private banking system. I think it's a mistake. The old history, the crises of 1850 already in Belgium, and the more recent history, the crisis of 2008, show the overwhelming superiority of public banks or even of an entirely public banking sector because we can also consider going further in this area. You want everything to be private. We can also want everything to be public!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u86	Mr President, Minister, I have been following the file on the collection of penalty fines in Parliament for many years. The response of the end of February to my written question shows that judges issued more than EUR 1 billion in fines between 2012 and 2016. Of these, some 46% had been collected at the end of February, or some EUR 573 million; 54 percent had not yet been collected, or some EUR 678 million. That written reply also shows that, of the fines imposed in 2016, 33% of the fines were currently paid, and 41 percent of the fines from 2015, half from 2014, 59 percent from 2013 and 65 percent from 2012. An earlier reply, dated 2016, showed that at that time 58 % of the 2012 fines had been paid. So there was no very much progress in a year and a half, and that is a worrying observation. The large differences between regions are also striking. Generally, the rate of collection is higher in Flanders than in Wallonia. For example, for the fines imposed in 2016, the rate of collection for the office of Kortrijk is 56% and for Oudenaarde and Vilvoorde is 50%, which is by the way the highest collection rates. For Nivelles, the rate of collection is only 16 %, for Brussels 21 % and for Arles 25 %. In Flanders, Antwerp is an outcast with an inning rate of only 29 %. The question arises as to whether there is a link with the number of convictions that the offices receive? Well, that is not the case, because that same answer to my written question shows that in Kortrijk there were about 10 000 convictions in 2016, in Oudenaarde about 4 500, in Vilvoorde 11 500, in Nivelles 5 000, in Brussels over 62 000 and in Arlens 2 660. Your reply does not give the number of staff who take care of the penalty payments per office. That could possibly be an explanation. In a media response, you attributed the differences between regions to the socio-economic context. You said you'd bring that up in your administration. On the positive side, an initial assessment of the collection through employers, banks and bailiffs, in addition since February 2016, appears to be relatively successful. Over 20 million euros were collected in this way in a year. The same applies to the collections via taxes, VAT refunds, ANPR cameras or telephone reminders from the FPS Finance. The most important Achilles heel in that story turns out to be the automated data exchange between Justice, which imposes the fines, and Finance, which they intuit. Steps have been taken in this area in recent years, but spectacular results have not been achieved. You have also recognised this in your reaction to the media, from which I quote: "Where this goes very smoothly for the judgments of the police courts, this is not the case for the courts of correction. There is still far too much on paper, which makes processing difficult. To solve this, Finance has developed an application to which Justice can join." You also expressed the hope that this connection could happen soon. In 2009, so about nine years ago, when I first mentioned this, your predecessor already referred to the Stimer investment project, a new project that would optimise both the accounting and the collection and recovery of fines. Its development was good at the time, but today the problem remains with automated data exchange. First of all, could you explain the socio-economic context as an explanation of the large regional disparities? Secondly, can you give more information on the 26 offices to the staff working on the collection of fines? Is there a possible explanation in offices with personnel problems? Thirdly, can you give a more general explanation of the application that Finance has developed and to which Justice can subscribe? How does the roll-out take place in the field and what obstacles are there?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u87	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, as regards your first question, it is of course true that income and wealth are not evenly distributed. The same also applies to employment and unemployment rates. These factors, of course, affect the recovery results. However, my administration strives to make the same effort for all equal debts. Where this is difficult due to circumstances, the assistance shall be sought from the recovery teams concerning natural or legal persons. As far as your second question is concerned, I can give you a table on the number of staff in non-fiscal recovery who recover penalty payments. However, those employees do not only work for the recovery of penalty fines, as the offices are also competent for other claims. As for your third question, legally speaking, the recipient is the only one responsible for deciding which means to use when. There is no obligation to appeal to a bailiff. There are other means that can be used with equal success and often with less cost. I refer to the simplified third-party seizure or to the compensation of the tax refund with the fine. In selecting the most appropriate means of recovery, the recipient is not alone. He is helped by a system of indicators and a data mining model that predicts the chance that a debtor will or will not pay his debt. Grosso modo basically is that it is mainly these files that are forwarded to the bailiffs. Moreover, it is also noted that the offices send the recovery orders digitally to the bailiff. It is only if the bailiff confirms that he can process recovery orders effectively that the files are forwarded. Not all bailiffs were able to work according to this new method at the same time. As for your fourth and final question, the First project aims to develop an integrated system by 2020 in the light of the latest ICT standards. The administration already uses First for the management of penalty fines and withholding tax. In the meantime, several types of debt will be progressively absorbed. For example, as of June 2018, in the framework of the federal redesign project, an interface will be made available to certain federal administrations via First, so that they can bring their claims into the system for the purpose of their recovery by the administration. The interface is called the generic intake module and is based on a structured digital message. It is on that module that Justice must also join, which happened before the verdicts of the police judges. That's pretty smooth. In other words, my administration is ready to receive and process the other judgments and judgments electronically.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play. I will look at the table and read the answer again quietly. Hopefully a better rate of collection will be achieved in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u89	Minister, this is a brief follow-up question. Since 2013, the Federal Procurement Committee of the FPS Finance has a sales mandate for the former customs buildings on the Callicannes site. The Flemish Real Estate Operations Service has had a sales mandate for the surrounding lots since 2017. The road is open to joint sales. A first consultation took place in June 2017 and was aimed at making agreements on the method of buy-back. The destination given by the BPA to the site is currently limited to public utility and border-bound services or economic activity. It is clear that something urgently needs to happen to the site, because the decay is increasing. Since mid-2016 the roads around the car park and behind the green zone are in the management of the city Poperinge. The parking was now completely closed in the interest of public order and hygiene. How are we doing with the sales process of the site? What about the timeline? In 2015, you replied to a previous question that there were three interested buyers. Are there any more interested today or not? What initiatives can be taken to make rapid progress in the dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u90	Since the Flemish Region decided to sell its share, consultations have taken place between the commissioner of the federal purchasing committee and his colleague of the Vastgoedacten department of the Flemish Region. Agreements were made concerning the joint sale of the site and the distribution key to be used. However, a site visit found that the site might be a risky ground and that an exploratory soil survey should be carried out prior to the sale. The Government of the Buildings, manager of the site for which the federal purchasing committee sells the federal part of the site, was informed. The timing of the sale depends on the results of that soil research and on any further steps on soil restoration. At the moment there are two companies that are still looking at the state of the case and which can be considered interested. Of course, the actual number of potential buyers will only become apparent at the actual start-up of the sale. The file is followed in close consultation by the sellers of the Federal Procurement Committee and the Directory of the Buildings, for the Belgian State, and by the seller of the Vastgoedacten Service, for the Flemish Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u91	Mr Minister, I note that we are waiting for the ground survey to be carried out. I hope that the dossier, which has been delayed for many years, leads to the degradation of a site in the border area, can soon be realised. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u92	Mr President, I had originally tabled this question on 11 December as a written question. However, as I have not yet received an answer, I was forced to submit them as an oral question. Mr Minister, since July 2013, the VAT levy on food donations has been lifted in respect of food banks. A new administrative decision of 21 May 2015 extends this measure to local authorities and recognised charitable institutions with a view to the free distribution of food products, only among needy persons in Belgium. To my question No. 19050, which I stated last year on 2 June, you replied that after an evaluation of the previous enlargement of May 2015, it proved to be a very successful measure. I'm sure you do. That is why you have decided to consider the areas where the system can be further relaxed. I would have argued for that in my question. I had asked for this relaxation to be introduced, for example, for the benefit of social restaurants and social grocers. In the reply of June last year, you said that the revision of the existing circular was almost complete. Afterwards, I heard you were going to publish that review on Fisconetplus. So that was last summer. However, at the end of November, when I saw that there was still no new circular and I re-inquired about the state of play, I was told by your services that the new regulation would be drawn up in a new comprehensive preliminary draft law. The issue would therefore no longer be settled by means of a circular, which we have been waiting for until then. The new law would also include the costume surpluses. Minister, I understand that you would like to work out a legal framework because it provides more certainty. However, its completion will take more time than the revision of the current circular. The practice proves that, too. In the meantime, we are almost a year ahead and there is neither a revised circular nor a new law. That's why I have a few questions. Can you explain why you chose a preliminary draft law? What's the status? I assume everything is as good as round, since you announced it a long time ago. Can you clarify which elements will be included in the preliminary draft law? Will social grocers and restaurants also be taken into account? Can you tell me whether other non-food products will be included in addition to clothing? Or does the new law only deal with food and clothing surpluses? Is it necessary, in your view, to regulate this by law, in the light of the VAT Directive? Or is a review of the existing circular based on the European Commission's guidelines on food donations sufficient? Would it not be desirable to work in advance on the basis of a renewed circular as you announced in anticipation of a new law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u93	Mrs Lanjri, I propose that I deal with your questions 1, 3 and 4 together and ask 2a and 2b separately. The free distribution of food surpluses is essentially a form of economic destruction of the goods concerned to the extent that they are definitively and irrevocably excluded from the normal economic circuit. They therefore suffer a fate similar to that of goods physically destroyed, which would be the only alternative for the goods in question. It is therefore appropriate to apply to those goods a VAT regime similar to that applicable to the physical destruction of goods provided for in the VAT Directive. In those circumstances, it would therefore appear justified to embed in the law the non-comparability of the donation of unsellable food for charitable purposes with a supply of goods for consideration. A legislative amendment in preparation therefore aims to ensure greater legal certainty in this area and is therefore preferable to a simple amendment or amendment of an administrative circular. The amendment is an integral part of a more comprehensive preliminary draft law which makes several changes to the VAT code. This preliminary draft is very soon to be placed on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. I come to your second question, part a. This preliminary draft law provides for the non-conformity with a supply of goods for consideration and the transfer of non-commercial foodstuffs intended for human consumption. For this purpose, a new exception to the equivalence with a supply of goods for consideration is introduced in the VAT Code. This measure will also be the subject of a specific implementing decision which will relate in particular to the nature and characteristics of the unsaleable goods, the charitable purposes involved, the circumstances in which the unsaleable goods can be transferred for those purposes, the amount that can be charged as costs and the formal conditions to be respected. An administrative circular will then, of course, explain all these provisions further in detail. With regard to your second question, part b, the legal measure will cover only the donations of food products intended for human consumption. On the other hand, as I indicated earlier, I have absolutely no objection to the non-comparison with the supply of goods for consideration of the transfer of non-charitable clothing surpluses. I've instructed the administration to investigate this. After all, there are a number of problems that need to be resolved first. Firstly, this extension should not create additional administrative burdens for the trader and should be able to keep the VAT formalities to a strict minimum. Secondly, at all costs, it must be avoided that the gifted clothing will end up in a parallel economic circuit where these goods do not undergo the correct VAT treatment and thus risk creating a form of distortion of competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u94	Mr. Secretary, I'm not uneducated. I have a degree, like most, but I have to admit that I did not understand half of your answer. It wasn't clear. You literally quoted passages from legal texts. It's really not clear. Can you give me an answer to my questions in plain language? Can you give me the timing of the bill? Last year in June everything was in jugs and jugs. There was supposed to be a new, modified circular. Then suddenly it was chosen to do so by means of a bill. In November it was said that a text would be submitted to the Council of Ministers. I hear you saying that again today. What's the timing? When's the change coming? Will this be arranged for the social grocers and the social restaurants?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u95	Mrs Lanjri, it is the Prime Minister's prerogative to place something on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. All I can do is file files. Then it is the Prime Minister who decides what week to come to the Council of Ministers. In any case, we will ensure that the scheme is readily available. I suggest I give you the answer so that you can read it again quietly. I admit that it is a complex answer, but I can assure you that it is not a series of legal texts. It's a thorough text. I had to think about it three times myself when I read it. I suggest that I give you the text and that you ask additional questions if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u96	All right, Minister. I will put my questions in writing, but I hope that I will get an answer quickly and not have to wait three or four months, as was the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u97	Debates of the European Parliament No 24239 by Mr Gilkinet and No 24239 by Mr Gilkinet and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u98	If I could obtain the written answer to my question No 24240, which is attached to Question No 24305 by Mr Deseyn, I shall be content with it. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u99	Mr Deseyn agreed to a written reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u100	Minister, following my oral question of 26 September 2017 and my current question of 8 March 2017 to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as well as the written replies provided to me on 14 March 2017, I would like to ask you again about the management by Belgian banks and by the federal government of the Libyan funds frozen on the basis of Council of the European Union Regulations 204/2011 and 44/2016. As a reminder, on 7 September 2011, one of your predecessors, Mr Reynders, confirmed to the newspaper La Libre Belgique that Libyan assets amounting to EUR 14 billion had been frozen in Belgium pursuant to a resolution of the United Nations Sanctions Committee and that these funds were housed in various banks such as Euroclear, KBC, ING and BNP Paribas. In your reply, you state that, according to Article 5(4) of Regulation (EU) No 204/2011 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Libya, interest from frozen funds is no longer subject to restrictive measures from 16 September 2011. However, Article 5, paragraph 4, of this Regulation does not exist in the original version of this Regulation dated 2 March 2011. This paragraph was added by Regulation (EU) No 965/2011 of 28 September 2011, which amends Regulation (EU) No 204/2011 and states: "All funds and economic resources owned, owned, owned or controlled, as of 16 September 2011, by the Central Bank of Libya, the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, the Libyan Investment Authority, the Libyan Africa Investment Portfolio, and located outside Libya at that date, remain frozen." In other words, this paragraph therefore says that all funds of these entities frozen before 16 September 2011 remain frozen. He did not say that the interests derived from those frozen funds could be released. Moreover, in its definition of funds intended to be frozen, EU Regulation 204/2011 clearly includes interest and dividends from frozen funds. I quote: "For the purposes of this Regulation, funds, financial assets and economic benefits of any kind, including, but not limited to, interest, dividends and other income from assets or capital gains on assets." Minister, can you please indicate in what way Article 5(4) of Regulation (EU) No 204/2011 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Libya allows interest from frozen funds to be released from 16 September 2011? Can you explain to me the legal reasoning of the RELEX Group on this subject? Do you endorse this reasoning? That's my first question. Second question, again on the same subject, you indicated in your answer that "the total amount of Libyan assets, securities and cash, blocked on accounts held with Euroclear Bank constitutes confidential information in so far as it relates to a customer's individual positions." I am surprised by such a different view between one of your predecessors, Mr. Reynders – who quoted amounts in 2011 – and you yourself regarding the confidentiality of this information. This confidentiality is all the more damaging in the light of today's questions regarding Belgium's compliance with its international obligations to freeze these Libyan funds. It is also problematic in view of the identity of the holders of those funds, which are explicitly referred to in a resolution of the United Nations Sanctions Committee and which should therefore be subject to a special status. If we freeze their funds, they represent a risk at the international level. Finally, it is problematic with regard to the capacity for parliamentary scrutiny that I am trying to exercise. Minister, can you please indicate on what legal basis Minister Reynders used in 2011 to communicate the amounts of Libyan money frozen in Belgian banks? On what legal basis do you rely today on refusing to disclose the same amounts? Can you inform me, bank by bank, year by year, since the decision to freeze these funds, of the evolution of these funds: amount of starting capital, amount of interest received and amounts possibly frozen? If not, how do you justify this refusal? Is not the best way to put an end to the beginning of the ongoing controversy to be fully transparent in this regard? Third question, in your reply of 14 March, you state that "no authorization has since been required for the payment of such interest and other income, such as dividends, and we therefore do not have any information on this matter." I am astonished by this view, with regard to funds that should remain frozen, given the instability in the countries concerned and the risks, in particular, related to the financing of terrorism. Beyond European regulations, Belgian law continues to apply in this context. You cannot exonerate yourself from your responsibility to control the final recipients of the interest and dividends that have been frozen since 2011. Under the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act 1993, the Treasury, which has control over these funds, is required, when funds are released, to ensure that final recipients are not "at risk". Minister, do you confirm that there is no ex ante control over the frozen funds as to the amounts paid, the economic or legal justification of the payments, the final recipients and their end use, particularly with regard to the terrorist risk? Has the Financial Information Processing Unit (TIFU) been informed by the Treasury or any other banking institution of the risks associated with these payments? If not, how do you justify it? Should this control not be strengthened if such payments are not prohibited in accordance with European rules? I come to the last question. Also in your reply of 14 March, you indicate that this interpretation is shared by the other Member States concerned by that regulation. At the meeting of the RELEX Group, the Belgian State was represented by an expert from the Permanent Representation of Belgium to the European Union. I am surprised that such an important decision is a matter for a group whose existence is not provided for in the European regulations laying down the conditions for freezing and thawing. I am also surprised at your assertion that this interpretation is shared by the other Member States because, to my knowledge, Britain has expressed at least a very different opinion. Minister, can you tell me the exact status of the RELEX Group? Who composes it? What is the legal scope of its opinions? When did this opinion come from the RELEX Group? Can the text and the justification for its opinion be forwarded to Parliament? Can you tell me what Britain's position is? Have other States made reservations? Which other States supported this view? These are just a few of the questions I could have asked you. I must confess my perplexity when I read your previous answers. This is an important subject on which I hope you will help me to make all the clarity. If the worry is not justified, prove it to me!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u101	Mr Gilkinet, as regards the issue of interest, Article 5(4) of Council Regulation (EU) No 2016/44 of 18 January 2016 concerning restrictive measures in view of the situation in Libya and repealing Regulation (EU) No 204/20111, applies only to the funds of two entities: the Libyan Investment Authority and the Libyan African Investment Portfolio. These funds were frozen on 16 September 2011, outside Libya, and therefore no interest and other income generated by these funds. This European provision derives from the UN Security Council Resolution 2009 which aimed to restore to Libya the possibility of economic revival mentioned in the discussions of the RELEX Group in October 2011, themselves mentioned in your previous questions. In addition, the interests of the Lybian Investment Authority and the Lybian African Investment Portfolio are not covered by Article 12 on the interests of frozen accounts in respect of other entities. Article 5(4) of the abovementioned Regulation has been applied consistently since the European discussion on this subject. With regard to your request for transparency with respect to frozen amounts, I refer you to Article 18 of the above-mentioned Regulation (EU) No 2016/44, which specifies that any information provided or received under the freeze is used solely for the purposes for which it was provided or received. Furthermore, with regard to the accounts of the Central Bank of Libya and the Libyan Foreign Bank, I can only state that these entities were removed from the list of frozen entities on 20 December 2011 and that these accounts are no longer subject to freezing. With regard to the preventive legal provisions of money-laundering, they apply in all cases, of course, and the authorities designated for that purpose shall ensure that they do so. The General Administration of the Treasury is the competent authority for financial sanctions. Any request for thawing, not applicable in this case, shall be the subject of a comprehensive analysis involving consultation with the relevant services of the FPS Foreign Affairs when applying for authorization to the United Nations Sanctions Committee. Paragraph 15 of resolution 2009/2011 specifies that, with the exception of assets frozen outside Libya as at 16 September 2011, such entities will no longer be subject to freezing measures and that Member States will no longer be required, inter alia, to ensure that their nationals or any person or entity in their territory does not make any funds, financial assets or economic resources available to them or use them for their benefit. As a result, in September 2011, the United Nations rehabilitated these entities and its position has not changed since then. With regard to the RELEX Group, these questions have already been the subject of an answer to which I refer and which I have a copy of. We have asked the European Commission for more specific information on this group and we are waiting for its answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u102	Minister, I'm sorry to bother you with specific questions. I would like to announce that I will come back with new questions. I expect this issue to be transparent. You said on Twitter and elsewhere that the information published in the media was incomplete. I ask you to demonstrate it more convincingly. You say that interest is not covered by the definition of freezing of funds. I see something else when I read the Rules of Procedure. It's complex. Is there a subtlety that escapes us? You say that you cannot, according to Article 18, disclose the amounts concerned. I note that Mr. Reynders, in 2011, had less scruples. The difference in treatment of this information leads today to an inability to understand what is happening. You say, and it is important, that it is in consultation with the FPS Foreign Affairs that we decide whether or not to release the funds. When we asked Mr Reynders about the matter in plenary, he said that it was the sole and total responsibility of Mr Reynders. Van Overtveldt. There are still a lot of questions to ask about the role of Euroclear. So I am already announcing to the President and to Mr. Van Hees, who had to wait for this long exchange to be able to ask these last questions, that I will come back to the Finance Committee with specific questions. I would ask you to work with Parliament to shed some light on this. Otherwise, other tools can be used to try to clarify files with somewhat nauseating hints like this one or, in any case, that generate concerns about the financing of terrorism, which I have already pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u103	Question No 24533 by Marco Van Hees is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u104	Minister, after the OffshoreLeaks, SwissLeaks, LuxLeaks, Panama Papers, MaltaFiles, Paradise Papers, etc., the newspapers Le Soir and De Tijd publish new revelations called LuxFiles. Once again, we find that the richest households are mainly involved, which was already indicated in previous cases as well as scientific work such as that of economist Gabriel Zucman. In these LuxFiles, it appears that most of the richest Belgians have created a company in the Grand Duchy, sometimes a springboard to other tax havens. Minister, what initiatives do you intend to take in response to this new scandal? So far, every time I've asked you about the creation of a tax cell for the 0.01% of the richest households, you've always refused. Yet it is a practice that exists in several countries and that is in line with an OECD recommendation. Does this new scandal not lead you to reconsider your position?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u105	Mr Van Hees, the Panama Papers Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry has done an excellent job in making several recommendations to make the fight against mailboxes more effective. To this end, the UBO (Ultimate Beneficial Owner) register, established as a result of the EU anti-money laundering directives, will be freely accessible to all competent authorities in the fight against tax fraud. In view of the administrative practice with regard to tax residence, without prejudice to double taxation agreements, if a legal construction without substance situated in a tax haven is controlled by a Belgian resident company, a Belgian permanent establishment or a resident of the Kingdom, that construction is deemed to be situated in Belgium. The European Commission and the Belgian Government wish to introduce mandatory reporting for middle tax advisors on potentially aggressive cross-border tax planning schemes and to provide for automatic exchange of such data with all Member States on the basis of the mechanism already under way under the DAC Directive. The Government will be committed to implementing these recommendations. In addition, the ISI did not wait for these revelations to initiate investigations and projects to uncover the frauds related to this issue. These Leaks are also a minority source of information in relation to its work plan. As a reminder, the ISI systematically investigates home fraud investigations by collecting and analysing all available information. These surveys or pre-investigations mainly concern the fictitious exile of natural persons, the use of commercial structures active in Belgium but established fictitiously abroad and abusive heritage structures. The ISI applies data mining risk analysis techniques to the available data in order to identify mailbox companies. She is also actively tracking tax home fraud through the Blue Sky project. The BISC, the Belgian Internal Service Center, collects and examines the acts of legal persons in the Luxembourg Monitor. Thanks to the Common Reporting Standard (CRS) data, the tax administration receives financial information concerning, in particular, legal persons established in Luxembourg. Based on the first analysis of this data, the ISI sent several inquiries. The ISI also pays particular attention to intermediaries proposing the use of mailboxes. In the future, the ISI will continue to track these frauds on the basis of the results of its analyses and using all the information that is or will be available. As far as your second question is concerned, the tax authorities are already actively conducting a risk analysis when selecting controls. Large companies and big fortunes are thus more in the viewfinder. In addition, it becomes difficult to remain outside the viewfinder given the increasing exchange of data at the international level. This approach is much more effective than setting up a rich cell only to make an announcement effect. Rather, we are in favour of a horizontal control approach. This year, large companies will be able to participate in a pilot project in which books are proactively opened with consultation by the tax authorities. Compliance will be much higher. The work of the tax authorities will be reduced and companies will contribute more correctly to a situation that could be described as win-win.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic858x.u106	Minister, I take note of all the lines of control that the ISI has been following since before the time when this case broke out. Nothing new has been initiated, no new initiative has been taken as a result of these revelations. As far as the second point is concerned, I note that once again you are refusing to implement this OECD recommendation, namely a cell that targets the richest. You're talking about an ad effect, but I don't think it's about that. If the OECD recommends it and if several countries do, it is because it makes sense. This is done for companies, since specialized services are available for large companies. Why does this not apply to natural persons as well? I do not see how the great fortunes would naturally be more in the viewfinder than the others. I once again regret this decision on your part.
