ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to begin by welcoming you to the Chamber today after the Flemish, Brussels and Walloon Parliaments for the meeting of the interparliamentary climate conference. I do not have to tell you that climate is an important issue, on which the powers in Belgium are divided over several levels. Of course, it is equally true that there are no limits to the climate and the challenges surrounding it, and it is therefore recommended, with respect for the respective powers, to consult between parliaments. It is therefore in this context that, since last year and in the light of the somewhat difficult intergovernmental dialogue on Burden Sharing, the Presidents and the Members of Parliament concerned have decided to come together on a regular basis for this dossier. Colleagues, the work of the interparliamentary dialogue on climate can fill gaps and bridge the gap between the policies of federated entities and those of the federal state. On the occasion of COP23, the climate conference held in Bonn, the interparliamentary dialogue on climate allowed, in November 2017, to adopt a joint declaration. The statement was valued and welcomed in Bonn. The next objective is therefore to draw up a resolution for COP24, the climate conference, to be held, as you all know, in Katowice, Poland, from 3 to 18 December 2018. The challenge of this conference will be great, as many substantive debates will have to be conducted. Some practical arrangements still need to be made. They concern how these objectives can be achieved. To want is to be able. It is clear that we are not going from scratch, since we can rely on the joint declaration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to thank you for your presence in the Chamber and limit my speech to that. I would like to hand over the Presidency to my good colleague Bert Wollants, the chairman of the special committee on climate change and sustainable development in the Chamber of Representatives. I can only wish you a very early and constructive meeting and exceptionally good consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to welcome you to the Chamber for the interparliamentary climate conference. I'd like to take a quick look at our agenda. We are supposed to be discussing a number of issues today. Firstly, we need to consider how to organise the consultations to arrive at a common text following COP 24, which will take place at the end of this year. Secondly, Mr Wittoeck, whom we warmly welcome, will give an account of the results of COP 23 and give a preview of COP 24 points which we can take with us in our discussion, along with everything that has already happened in between. I propose that we begin with the arrangements for work and lay down the procedure that we could follow. The Walloon Parliament proposes to draw up and submit its own rules of procedure for approval. I understand that there are proposals in this direction from the other parliaments. First of all, we have to decide whether we are working with domestic regulations or if we are working in a different way. At least it must be clear how we will work in the coming months. At the same time, I would also like to ask that anyone who takes the floor first mentions his name and the Parliament of which he or she is a Member, so that the report can put the right words to the right person, in order to avoid any unpleasant situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u4	Colleagues, this idea has come from the experience of the previous months. We were finally able to give birth to a statement. This is a very tangible, very concrete result. But sometimes we have had to improvise our method of work a little. We have sometimes suspended the meeting to try to reach agreement, in particular on voting procedures and how to refer it, or not, to our respective assemblies. We managed because everyone obviously had the will to succeed. We are all very happy about that. Excuse President André Antoine this afternoon. His idea is that we need to build on our future work so that things can flow more easily, by agreeing on a rules of procedure. Two points should be decided. On the one hand, the voting procedures. If there is no unanimity, how are minority positions reflected? On the other hand, there is a return to our assemblies. Less importantly, there is the problem of meeting places. We have been quite naturally from one side to the other. This reception in each of the assemblies could be specified in these rules of procedure. That is, in broad terms, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am the President of the Environment Committee and I am replacing Mr Picqué in this committee. In our view, it would be desirable to reach a consensus rather than a vote on the texts. We also propose that the texts be validated by our respective parliaments so that the message sent is stronger. Furthermore, we propose to use the previous COP text to define how the amendments will be presented, how we will work, whether or not it is on the basis of a Rules of Procedure. In addition, it would be appropriate to check the schedule of meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u6	Mr President, my name is Andries Gryffroy, Member of the Flemish Parliament. With your permission, I would like to proceed with the procedure. We have looked at your question with a number of other parties in the Flemish Parliament to see how it can be handled in a simple, transparent and democratic way. We have come to the next synthesis. First of all, what weight is given to which assembly within this organ? In order to avoid a complex procedure in this area, it is sufficient, in purely legal and decreed terms, that if exactly the same resolution is adopted in the four assemblies, in the manner specific to each assembly in one chamber and perhaps not in the other, but that decision does not necessarily require the assembly to organize a vote here. If the resolution is adopted in the four assemblies, there is a consensus. There is always a consensus to be found here. Secondly, how are we going to proceed in practice? As your note states, Mr President, on a particular subject, we are working on a text of death in each parliament, which is also discussed internally in each parliament according to its own procedures. Then the four deadly texts come together in this gremium, where at best their discussion should lead to a final text the first time, which then returns to the four assembles where one can vote on it. When the four assemblers give their approval, there is an automatic consensus. If that is not the case, the text may have to go back and forth a few times. The question then is how is this to be done with the representation of the various assemblers in this Gremium? If one does so in this way, it makes no difference, because then each assembly itself determines how it organises the representation in this gremium. For example, for the Flemish Parliament that would be the continuation of our own climate committee. The representatives are coming here. In fact, a large number of the representatives are here. The Brussels Parliament, the Flemish Region and the Chamber of Representatives can do this even differently. It is also not important whether one or the other parliament is represented by more people, because after that it has to be decided in its own assembly. It is, of course, not easy to come up with a consensus text, which we saw last time, unless it is a woolly, broad and not concrete text. It is therefore possible to discuss whether it should not be possible to include minority amendments. Minority amendments, I think, would be a good thing, but we should not make it too non-binding either. Our proposal in this respect requires at least two parliaments and four parties to support a minority amendment so that it is included in the text. I have one practical comment to make. We are now welcome in the Chamber. An initiative will probably start later, but it will not be completed. I do not know in which parliament the next meeting will take place, but it must at least be the intention that the services of the Chamber should continue to address and supervise this document until the end. If something else is discussed next time, the services of the relevant parliament must accompany it to the end, so that there is no fragmentation of the administration, but that each administration represents until the end the piece that has been started in that particular assembly. Let me get this straight. We must assume that the outcome of our discussions is a consensus. This consensus can be achieved by putting the same text to the vote in each assembly. The fallen texts are first made at assembly level and then come to us for discussion. The vote will then take place in the assembly, in such a way that there is no discussion here about representation: with how many people, per party or per parliament. Nor can there be any discussion on how to vote. As a result, a number of items mentioned in your letter will lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u7	Are there other responses or are there reactions to this more concrete proposal of approach? Can everyone agree to deal with it that way?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u8	As far as the amendments are concerned, could we not stay within the logic of parliament rather than redouble the logic of parliaments by a logic of political parties, which, in my view, would make matters very difficult? So, we keep an internal procedure in each parliament rather than a party-related procedure for tabling amendments? Could we not say that the amendments can be taken into account if two parliaments support them, so as to make things a little easier?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u9	If it is limited to two parliaments, then I think we are going to find bizarre situations. Suppose there is a majority within all assembles to approve a particular text but certain parties feel that there is no particular accent and would like it to be included in a minority amendment. When people say that Parliament must agree to this, they expect a majority within that parliament for a minority amendment. There is then a contradiction in terms. A majority will then be needed for a minority amendment. That is why we say that we do not need a majority within two assemblies, but that we simply need the approval of at least two regions and four parties, if I may put it this way, to accept such an amendment. So what I propose is less stringent than what you propose. You may otherwise have the approval of a particular resolution within your Parliament, but a minority amendment will suddenly have to be adopted again within that same parliament by a majority in order to have it included as a minority amendment. So I'm sitting here playing with the words majorité and minorité.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u10	Let me look at the other Members and delegations. Are there any responses? Mr Gryffroy, is it possible to provide us with a slightly more detailed text on what you are proposing? Then we can use him as a deadly text so that everyone will have the opportunity to look at this in their parliament for a moment within the body that has the authority to do so. We can then continue to work on that basis. Anyone can then think about the problem of minority amendments and how they could be dealt with. Is everyone okay with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u11	In the note sent to me from the Clerk of our Parliament, it is suggested to refer to the procedure for consent, a procedure which is known. That could be an alternative. I believe that what is really important is that we have a martyred text and that we come back to it next time so as not to improvise today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u12	We are taking this with us and asking the Flemish Parliament to produce a basic text so that we can deal with it next time. We also have a number of decisions to take on our further work. If we want to draw up a proper calendar in order to arrive at a text useful at COP 24, we should try to organise our work in such a way that we can land before the summer recess. In this way, we can avoid what we had to do last time, which is to say that our work is running too late and that there are changes to the text and so on at the last minute. This means that, in order to complete our work on this text, we are aiming for 11 July, because I think that the Flemish Parliament will be the first to leave in recess. The question then is how many meetings we have to plan to get that done. It is not unwise to aim for about three meetings. If we don't need them all, the better, but at least they're planned. That also gives us a certain frequency to keep us all sharp and keep the pressure on the boiler high enough. In connection with this, and I would also like to ask the House about this, I understand that a number of parliaments and participants in our sitting on Monday afternoon are somewhat difficult. That is the explanation that there are a number of absentees today, who may have been very interested in participating this afternoon. In this respect, I would like to ask the sitting to see what a better time to meet and whether you can agree to try to schedule three more meetings for the summer recess to bring our work to a successful conclusion. Who is asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u13	As far as the Brussels Parliament is concerned, we fully agree to hold three meetings before the summer. That is no problem. As far as meeting times are concerned, it should be around noon on Monday or Tuesday afternoon. The presidents of the assembly should be consulted to see what would be best.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u14	If moving our meeting to noon is a solution, that can be considered. I'm looking at the others to respond to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u15	If it is at noon, you would be kind to check for the Walloon Members if it is a "French Community" week, where we are then in Brussels. Otherwise, it will become very difficult. Otherwise, Thursday and Friday offer more flexibility, as we have less parliamentary work these two days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u16	On Thursday, of course, we will be in the Chamber with the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u17	In Brussels Parliament, on Friday, we are in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u18	If I sum it up, it'll only be Tuesday afternoon. On Monday afternoon, the Bureau meets in the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u19	Is Tuesday afternoon a better option, Mr. Tobback?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u20	Mr President, since Tuesday afternoon is also the permanent meeting of the Environment Committee in the Flemish Parliament, of which almost all members of the Climate Committee in the Flemish Parliament, that is a bit absurd. No one from the Flemish Parliament will be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u21	On Tuesday noon we agree, as on Monday noon, provided that it is a week of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u22	Is Tuesday afternoon an option for all parliaments? Of course, it requires some efficiency to achieve sufficient results twice in the afternoon. I notice that Tuesday afternoon at noon is an option against which I do not immediately see many objections.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u23	If the meetings take place on Tuesday afternoon, I will not be here anymore, because I have a regular meeting on Tuesday afternoons. What is possible is Tuesday afternoon, at the time when the Committee on the Environment of the Flemish Parliament meets. Can't you do that? Why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u24	In your opinion, when can the Environment Committee of the Flemish Parliament meet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u25	The members of the Committee on the Environment may attend this meeting instead of attending the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u26	How do you suggest the organisation of the Environment Committee of the Flemish Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u27	This Climate Commission doesn't meet every week, does it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u28	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u29	... do not weigh the importance of the various parliaments against each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u30	Then I think that the proposal to meet on Monday afternoon, when the French-speaking Community meets in Brussels, is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u31	Can everyone agree to a meeting on Monday at noon in the right week so that as many colleagues as possible can be here? [[Assent]] Okay, then I'll move on to the next step. We have already consulted the agenda to see what might be possible on Monday, so also on Monday afternoon. However, I do not know enough about the calendar of the Walloon Parliament. We were thinking 30 April, 28 May and 2 July. Can the representatives of the Walloon Parliament check whether these data are problematic? Or can we get feedback on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u32	Can Mrs. Salmon help me? I do not have the calendar of French-speaking parliaments in hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u33	I'm gonna consult everyone in a hurry. Thanks to the lady, we know that 30 April, 28 May and 25 June are not a problem for the Walloon Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u34	I am a member of the Flemish Parliament and note that we have a meeting of the Bureau in Flanders on Monday afternoon. If we really need to get together in the afternoon, President Peumans cannot, in principle, be present. Is it really the intention to work on a regular day? Isn't it a better idea to jump? Then someone can be there one time and the next time they won't be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u35	We can also consult the various parliaments and try to arrive at three dates. I'm afraid we won't get out otherwise. So we are taking the proposal for Monday afternoon and trying to come up with a supported proposal with the parliaments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u36	In other words, do you have to suggest dates to the parliaments? That's not gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u37	No, we will present the dates that are being proposed, to those Members who are not here today, and we will also consult them if we can find the best solution in this way. If there are even fewer people available on other dates, then that is not a solution and we can better stick to the proposed three dates.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u38	If I may join my colleague, Mr Wilfried, you could say, for example, that the sitting on Monday 28 May will be postponed to Tuesday 29 May. That may be difficult for Mrs Grouwels, but then Jan Peumans and Wilfried Vandaele can be there. Then we can meet on Monday afternoon 30 April, then on 29 May in the afternoon, which is difficult for Brussels but easier for us, and finally on 25 June, which is more difficult for us but easier for others. We'll have an alternative between Monday and Tuesday. Can everyone agree to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u39	That's good for me. Is everyone okay with that? [[Assent]] Then we'll record it like this. The next item is the working method. I have already heard here that it is preferable to work on the basis of the joint declaration. I also heard during the speech in the Flemish Parliament that text proposals would be made on this basis. Or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u40	I did not say that we should continue to work on the basis of our joint declaration. I'm declaring myself. The joint declaration looks too much at what we have to do internally, in Belgium and in the various regions. What we are trying to do now is send a message to our climate ministers who are going to COP 24. That message should not list what we have done and what we have not done. I would prefer to give the Ministers the message of what positions they should defend for us against the rest of the world. Our proposal is therefore rather to move away from today's work to produce a text which deals mainly with the position of the four assemblers, which our climate ministers must proclaim at COP 24 and not list what they have already done or have not done, where things are better or where things are worse. That's all internal politics. Such a COP discusses a range of themes, which are not just about what a country does internally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u41	So you propose that each Parliament should ensure that our ministers are given positions that they can take in COP 24 as useful contributions on what we want, and thus less focus on what we do in our own country. It must be more of a message to the others. Colleagues, is it a good proposal for each Parliament to submit proposals on this basis, so that we can come up with some sort of death text that contains those elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u42	I think that's a good idea. This is a good proposal, but if we look at the statement that has already been prepared, I have the impression that we are not saying too much what we have done, but also what we are asking for. These were clear and precise formulations to determine where one wants to go and what one wants to achieve. I do not see a huge difference from what has been done, except that it is now, of course, a resolution that further implements the objectives of this declaration, which has been ratified by all the parliaments represented in our interparliamentary dialogue. I have one more question. You have spoken of four assemblies that must finally vote on this resolution and one member with observer status. It will be necessary to clarify whether this must be voted on by all parliaments, and also by the Communities. This is a practical question to be added to the questions to be clarified in the ROI.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u43	On your last point, I will try to make that clear in the note that we will deliver in good time and on which we can discuss next time. As far as your first point is concerned, the further development of our joint declaration is a task in itself and is about what we want to do within the different regions and/or at federal level. However, the outside world does not have a message about this at COP 24, but that can be a separate task that we can accomplish in the coming months, in addition to the set of demands we would like to give to our ministers, with what they should make known at COP 24. I am thinking, for example, of the eternal discussion about air transport, which is not being recorded. We can send a clear message to the ministers that they are fighting for this and that they are communicating their position to the Council. In other words, to further concreteise the common message specifically on our own internal policies can then be done in parallel meetings or immediately afterwards, but now I want to be able to give a bundle of demands to the ministers with what is important for us to deliver as an external message.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u44	It all depends on the terms we use. I see him less in a "case of claims" as such or as "what we're asking for" or "what we've done". It can't be anything but that. It must be a text that has breath, "project" and ambition in the short and medium term. We cannot simply put a list of demands on what we parliamentarians want. I think we need to strike a balance between what we are thinking of as a project, including in the medium and long term, but not just a list of things that we are asking for or that we have done. You'll have to see the balance, but I wouldn't call it a "case of claims." We need to have an ambitious text that has breath.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u45	In the end, we all want the same thing, namely a new text for the next COP, with the ambition that we ourselves have, but also with a number of questions that we want to ask the rest of the world. That can't be a problem. I should also like to point out that it should be the intention of this committee not only to draw up a text for the next COP, but also to take other initiatives if necessary. I am thinking very specifically of what we included in our previous declaration under paragraph 13, the interfederal energy pact, in which we ask to be involved. This can also be usefully discussed here in the coming months and give rise to new initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u46	Mr President, at the time of the previous parliamentary inquiry, we proposed a text. It seems interesting to me that it has been possible to assess its implementation since the last time and to go back with new objectives or to consolidate the objectives that we have already set. We're not leaving anything. We need to see what we have already done and set targets. In the future, we cannot be below what we have set out in the previous text because things are not necessarily moving in the right direction. I would suggest that each assembly should be able to evaluate the text and go back to it with a number of clarifications for the following text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u47	Colleagues, do I understand that we want to come up with a text that asks both ministers to take part in COP24, and also brings forward a number of ambitions internally, that the various parliaments make their own internal assessment of what has already been put on paper and include it in the proposals they make for the new text that we would like to adopt before the summer recess, and that we are trying to come up with a dead text on the basis of these points of view, on which we can then call a next meeting? Can everyone agree with that approach? [[Assent]] I would suggest that we take a look at when we expect the views of all parliaments. If that is clear, we should not postpone our possible sitting for the sake of work and the like, but should be able to draw up a schedule for each parliament to produce the texts in good time so that we can get to work in this gremium. I don't see any contradiction, so I suggest we organize it that way. We discussed the main issues relating to the content of that future resolution. Are there any members who will see that for the time being? [[No, no, ……]] Then I propose that we close the proceedings and give the floor to Mr Peter Witttoeck, who was asked with your agreement to clarify a few points. Mr Peumans rightly points out to me that the place of the next sitting must also be fixed. The question is whether we are maintaining the rotating system as it has been up to now, which means that the sitting in the Flemish Parliament would continue. I know that the Special Committee on Climate Change of the Chamber has proposed that it should take place here afterwards, but it is up to the Assembly to decide what is most appropriate. We met with the special Committee on Climate Change of the Chamber, which suggested that we hold the next meeting here, but if we wanted to maintain the rotation system, it would go to the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u48	So it's still here after?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u49	Of course, we still have to submit this to the Conference of Presidents. If the meeting were to take place here every once in a while, we would need the agreement, but I would suggest that it should apply only to the next three meetings, until we have come to a text, and that we should then start a new rotation. Otherwise, it seems to me to be a difficult point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u50	If I understand correctly, next time we will meet in the Flemish Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u51	The next three meetings will take place here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u52	Okay if it doesn't create a precedent. Then a turning point will be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u53	We are now working on the text for COP24 to implement the joint declaration. Once that subject has been completed, I propose that the next Parliament be called again in rotation. We will put the question to the Conference of Presidents as to whether we can do so. I would now like to address Mr Wittoeck on the results of the COP23, a look ahead to COP24 and everything that lies between it, so that we can have a good look at it and be inspired by the texts that our parliaments will soon be submitting in order to reach the resolution. Mr Witttoeck, I am very happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u54	Mr President, I would like to introduce myself briefly. I'm Peter Wittoeck, head of the Climate Change Department at the Federal Public Service Health. I have the honour of coordinating the Belgian delegations to international climate negotiations for some time now. I will try to outline some of the relevant results of the latest COP23 Conference of the Parties in Bonn in the time allocated to me for your work. I will perhaps also try to identify the main challenges for COP24 by now. Mr President, I will not be able to explain everything that is happening in between. We do not yet know what will happen. However, it is certain that 2018 will be a busy year, with undoubtedly a lot of relevant processes before COP24 and also for your work. I hope to be able to tell you a little bit about that. COP23 was the second COP after COP21, on which the Paris Agreement was concluded. The year 2018 will be an important year, because 2018 is the last year, before we have a number of agreements made in Paris, we need to work out further by the end of 2018 and during COP24 in Katowice. COP23 was in some sense a transition COP. However, I would not call it an intermediate COP but rather a hinged moment, as we have had many of them in the long international process. Nevertheless, it is important. Firstly, although it took place in Bonn, COP23 was the first COP in the long history of the UNFCC negotiations under the chairmanship of a small island state, a member of the Alliance of Small Island States. You are, of course, aware that as the most vulnerable countries to the effects and impact of climate change, they have a particular interest in the success of the negotiations so that the partners would show sufficient ambition to keep temperature down. On my next slide is a map showing how the world almost universally supported the Paris Agreement. The countries in blue have ratified the agreement. The countries in the beige have signed, but we are still waiting for the instrument of ratification to be formally deposited. You can see that the United States is still in blue. This will continue until the end of the current presidential term, because the procedure for a country to withdraw from the Paris Agreement takes so long. Until further notice, and perhaps not in accordance with the wishes of the President of the United States, you may all have seen his statement in the Rose Garden of the White House in the middle of last year, the United States remains formally, legally and internationally bound by its obligations under the Paris Agreement. I will not dwell too long on the position of the United States, but I would like to point out that it is in flux. This is among other things what President Trump stated on June 1, 2017. Just before COP 23, during the pre-COP, which is usually organised, the representative of the United States already brought a slightly more nuanced message. It announced that it would continue to participate in the negotiations and, contrary to what President Trump said, would not seek to renegotiate the Paris Agreement, something which would, moreover, be impossible given the balance in it and the global negative response to President Trump's suggestion. I shall not go into that geopolitical aspect further in my speech. I'm just showing you next slide with the official U.S. delegation room, which I would call low profile. Now, the official US delegation members at COP 23, people from the State Department, have behaved quite low profile and quite constructively, contrary to what could be feared, after President Trump made his statement in 2017. I am continuing with the substance of what was decided and discussed in Bonn at this COP 23, showing you a slide already presented before the COP by the Fijian Presidency of this COP, which mentions the key elements for this Presidency. It is first and foremost a matter of advancing the work that began in Marrakech at COP 22 and, for COP 24, establishing what is called the Paris Rule Book, that is, all the rules still to be developed in detail to make this Paris Agreement fully operational. A second very important element is that the Fijian Presidency established as one of its priorities the launch, in 2018, of what, in the decision accompanying the Paris Agreement in 2015, was called the "facilitative dialogue" - first phase in a cycle of evaluation of the level of ambition, a five-year cycle contained in the Paris Agreement. There is also adaptation to the adverse impacts of climate change and, related to this, loss and damage that were also among the priorities of the COP 23 Presidency, as well as one particular point, namely to pay more attention to the role of the oceans in this context. It is also an element underlying the cycle of ambition, namely to try to bring together a coalition around the 1.5°C objective also contained in the Paris Agreement. This objective was found in the Paris Agreement, thanks in particular to the efforts of the Alliance of Small Islands, including Fiji. I will focus on the first two points in the rest of my presentation. Firstly, very important in order to preserve the credibility of the Paris Agreement is the full development, by the end of this year, of the implementing decisions of the Paris Agreement. I'm not going to go into detail, because that would lead us too far. You will see here a very short list of all the issues that need to be worked out. Think, for example, of monitoring progress. How to deal with not achieving sufficient progress? The cycle of ambition I was talking about. How do we deal with the 2020 ambition? That whole list should be translated into very detailed implementing decisions, not by 2020 as we thought when negotiating the Paris Agreement. The intention of that agreement was originally to enter into force only in 2020. The Paris Agreement has already entered into force in 2016, which means that we have had to move the calendar forward for a number of years, because those rules must be agreed by the first meeting of the parties to the Paris Agreement, which will therefore meet three times. That conference of those parties is called the CMA. The first meeting took place in Marrakech and the second in Fiji. The third meeting of the first session will take place in Katowice, with the adoption of a lot of rules. I am very quickly going over the various progress notes. These are purely procedural notes and not the content of all the implementing decisions that need to be taken.... to give you an idea of the challenges for 2018 in order to advance those negotiations. It simply mentions the issues, who is responsible for them and what is the state of play and where the documents are mentioned. That's a lot of paper in itself. The actual negotiating text consists of hundreds of pages. As you saw on one of the previous slides, Fiji COP, the COP in Bonn, has been a kind of transition, an assessment of the state of play in the negotiations that had started in Marrakech. Those negotiations are very slow. That is a repeat of what we have seen for Paris. This worries some that we will not have been able to work out all the rules by the end of this year. Nevertheless, COP decided in Bonn to keep the deadline for 2018. The very short term remaining until the end of COP 24 will be compensated for by the possible, still formal, organisation of an additional negotiating session, probably early September. The second point on which I will go a little deeper than the Paris Rulebook is the facilitating dialogue I have already mentioned. This is the first stage in the five-year cycle of ambition, which is at the heart of the Paris Agreement and which has also been called for by the European Union. I try to illustrate the importance of this with this graph. It is now a well-known graph from the UNEP's annual Gap Report, the United Nations Environment Programme. The report analyzes how far we are from an emission trajectory, in blue and purple on the graph. The emission path should allow us to achieve the 2-degree target and the 1.5-degree target of the Paris Agreement. I'll zoom in on the piece until 2030. If there were no policy, we would be in the baseline scenario, or at least in the set of baseline scenarios that we have at our disposal. At the bottom you can see the two-degree and one-and-a-half degree trail. It is especially interesting to look at the red and green routes. The countries have registered their ambition in the Paris Agreement through their so-called nationally determined contributions and the red and green routes show us where that brings us. The gap is therefore the name of the report from which we will be in 2030 with the current policy as set out in the National Action Plans and objectives in Paris where we should be in order to achieve the two-degree target or one-and-a-half degrees target is still very large. The emission figures in the graph are quite abstract, but it becomes a little more concrete when we look at the data presented in a thermometer. On this thermometer you can see in the green the goals of Paris, in the red what would happen if we did nothing and in the orange where the nationally determined contributions bring us. So it doesn't bring us to 1.5 to 2 but to 3.5 degrees. According to some, that is still optimistic. That is the importance of the ambition mechanism of that Paris agreement. How do we ensure that these nationally determined contributions become more ambitious in the long term and bring the international community collectively closer to a 2° or 1.5o trajectory? You can see that five-year cycle at the bottom. It starts with this year, which is called the facilitative dialogue in the decisions of Paris. This should lead to updated or new ambitions by 2020. It was not exactly the case in Bonn that a number of framework decisions were negotiated, but a number of rules were nevertheless negotiated which the Presidency of COP, Fiji, together with the incoming Presidency, that of COP 24, Poland, will have to respect in order to further accompany the facilitative dialogue which has been renamed Fiji and the culture of the small islands in the Pacific to the Talanoa Dialogue. This is a model of consultation that is traditionally used there. I'll spare you the details. You can read them later. I will show you the schematic overview of how the Presidency will organise this Talanoa dialogue from 1 January 2018. There are two phases. On the left you will see an overview of the preparatory phase, which is the whole phase from 1 January 2018 to the beginning of COP 24. Then there is a political phase. That preparatory phase is to a very large extent the collection of information. Information about three key questions, very simple. Where are we? Where are we going? How do we get there? A GAP analysis, a reaffirmation of what we need to do to achieve the 2° to 1.5° target and the policies, objectives and level of ambition we are prepared to use. The input I was talking about is very broad. It is not just formal submissions of parties and states, it is a very broad approach to input in this process aimed at scaling up ambition. It is not just about parties but also about what is called non-party stakeholders, scientific institutions, it is very broad. The processes that have been going on for years within the UNFCCC negotiations themselves will also be useful, both processes that have analysed what we can do before 2020. That's the technical examination process you see here. Global climate action is what has been going on for several years, trying to galvanize action on the ground by companies and other non-state actors. It is also an invitation to parties, not only to do formal submissions, but also to organize national, local and regional regional events in the international sense that can provide relevant input for this Talanoa dialogue. The process has been left to the Presidency by the parties for a very large amount, the presidencies of COP 23 and 24, because a certain degree of flexibility is needed to manage the process in a year. You know that UN negotiations are very cumbersome. If all this had to be done according to the UN's formal rules, we would not reach COP 24 to summarize and synthesize all that input. That is therefore left to the presidencies of COP 23 and 24. So they are given the free hand for a piece. They will of course not do so without consulting all parties, but there will be no formal negotiation of a summary and a synthesis of all the input we will collect in the course of this year. A special input that deserves special attention in this context is the special report that the IPCC will produce in the autumn on the impact of the one-and-a-half degree objective and how we will achieve it. When I showed you the graph from the Gap Report, it was clear that the gap to one and a half degrees is even greater than that to two degrees. The IPCC's findings will thus provide additional impetus for the process of scaling up the level of ambition. As I said, the preparatory phase, the technical phase, followed by a political phase, at COP 24 itself, including the same questions, is based on the reports made by the Presidencies during the preparatory phase, in particular with a view to getting a political signal to the parties involved in the Paris Agreement, to consider by 2020 whether they should not update their nationally determined contribution or submit a new nationally determined contribution. This is not only reflected in the decisions taken in Paris and Bonn, it is also the way in which the executive secretary Patricia Espinoza of the UN Climate Treaty interprets things: "The Talanoa Dialogue is a launch pad for higher ambition." That can hardly be misunderstood. I now turn briefly to a number of other matters which have been of concern to us in Bonn. A bit surprising was the great focus, especially of developing countries, not on the 2030 horizon, post 2020, the implementation rules for Paris and the Talanoa dialogue, the ambition cycle, focus mainly on this but on raising the level of ambition before-2020. Linked to this, it is a detail, but not insignificant, yet not symbolically, the fact that the European Union, in particular the European Union, still had not ratified the Doha amendment to the Kyoto Protocol. Belgium wanted to do a gesture and send a signal by submitting its instrument of ratification at COP already for the European Union as a whole, which could have done so, thanks to Poland. In Paris, it had been decided that the Adaptation Fund (a Kyoto Protocol fund) could (may) also serve the Paris Agreement. In Marrakech, after fairly hard negotiations, the may has become a must. This fund will also serve the Paris Agreement. This is a small fund, which is mainly used to help small countries that have a great interest in accessing the financial resources of the fund. It is therefore a symbolic step forward for these small, most vulnerable countries. Another difficult issue, which will remain difficult until COP 24, is how will we comply with Article 9, § 5 of the Paris Agreement? It requires us not only to report on what funding we have provided to developing countries, as we have done so far, but also to anticipate and inform the international community of what we intend to do in the future, not collectively, as decided in Copenhagen with the target of 100 billion, but individually. You imagine that most donor countries have great difficulty communicating such projections of financial resources. As I said, the debate is not closed. We will continue to discuss the type of information to be submitted to the international community this year. This will clearly be the key element of the package to be adopted in Katowice. I am not going to go into the details of the loss and damage, but we are moving forward on the subject. Before Paris, it was a taboo subject. We're still moving slowly. It would seem that discussions on this very difficult subject are more constructive than before. Although this may seem like details, there are elements for which Belgium has fought long before Paris. They are sometimes called rights agendas: women's rights, the rights of indigenous peoples, workers' rights. Thanks to the Belgian colleagues who invested in this, COP 23, for the first time, there was a gender action plan in the context of UNFCCC. The creation of a specific platform has allowed direct access to the negotiations of indigenous peoples and local communities, who were previously required to express their position through their national delegations, while they are not always enthusiastic about conveying these messages. For the first time in history, indigenous peoples and local communities have direct access to negotiations. It is also important to note, particularly with regard to the negotiations in Bonn, that the real world is becoming increasingly manifest. We have been seeing activities in the context of the Global Climate Action Agenda in parallel with the negotiations themselves for a number of years. This is a conference that may have gotten bigger than I'm not sure about the numbers, or at least the same size as the negotiations themselves. I'll have the slides defiled quickly, otherwise this would take too much time. A lot of concrete initiatives have been announced in Bonn. Public initiatives, but also private sector initiatives and subnational initiatives. It really is a showcase of how the Paris Agreement, even though it is not yet fully operational, already galvanizes action in the real world. This is particularly true in the United States. The United States had announced that it would formally withdraw from the Paris Agreement. Well, one of the counter-reactions came from a very large coalition of subnational governments: from states, cities, companies, research institutions and universities. I had a list defiled to give you an impression. They will continue, within their own sphere of competence, as if they were still bound by the Paris Agreement. The impressive number of actors is illustrated by this graph, which I show, which reflects the gross domestic product of a number of countries, and also the added domestic product that all these actors generate together. If they were a state, they would be the third largest economy in the world in terms of gross domestic product. They are also very important in terms of emissions. If they were a state, a party to the Paris Agreement, they would be the third largest extortionist. The graph you see now shows you what the Obama administration's ambition was to reduce emissions. You can see it in the green triangle. If the policy that President Trump wants to achieve becomes an effective reality, the emissions of the United States will evolve as you see here. The impact of the non-state actors of America's Pledge: We're Still In, and so on, does not, in their opinion, bring the United States back to the level the Obama administration had in mind, but it still makes that particular gap much smaller. As I said, that coalition wants to act as if it is almost a party state to the Paris Agreement and has therefore announced, just as states are obliged to do so, that it will measure the impact of its actions and report on them to the international community. A number of specific announcements were also made which may merit your attention. First, a new alliance was created in Paris, the Powering Past Coal Alliance, with Belgium joining. This alliance then counted more than 25 states and also a number of cities and provinces, which wanted to send a strong signal that the low carbon future, where Paris is to take us, is not compatible with the continued use of coal for electricity production. A second interesting announcement was the statement by the Dutch Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, Mr Wiebes, who was already sending the signal to the international community, so not after the Talanoa dialogue that the Netherlands wants the European Union to significantly tighten its level of ambition: of the at least 40% reduction by 2030, the current target of emission reduction of no less than 55%. It was also said that it is literally stated in the government agreement of the Rutte III Government that, if it does not succeed at European level, it will be looking for a coalition of the willing. So the government does not use empty words and does not want to hide behind the European Union, because it gives itself an emission reduction target of 49% in this context. Our southern neighbors have also made a significant statement. It wouldn't have been President Macron, of course, if France was missing from that list. President Macron announced in Bonn, I mention all the actions that were adopted on 12 December, the anniversary of the Paris Agreement, to organise a One Planet Summit. He also wants to organize a kind of top action in the real world.I'm going back for a while, because it went too fast.. where around 12 themes a very large number of, sometimes extremely significant, initiatives were launched. I'm starting the video again. I would like to dwell on a number of promises, statements, alliances that have been adopted there. For example, there is the promise of 16 countries and 32 cities to be carbon neutral by 2050. You will see the Powering Past Coal Alliance and a number of sectoral matters. It is also significant that a number of countries want to stimulate the economy. They want to ensure that carbon prices increase and that economic actors are given a stronger incentive to invest in low carbon technologies. The financial world is also participating in all events. For example, there is a coalition of 225 large institutional investors. Together they represent 26 trillion, which is 26 000 billion dollars, in assets. Before further investing in the 100 largest emitters worldwide, they want to seriously consider whether they do not take better account of the risk of beached assets and risk derivatives associated with the investments in climate terms and purely economic terms of a future that will be carbon constraint. I will end with a number of matters ahead of COP 24. When we saw this logo in Bonn on the Polish delegation's pavilion, we thought: there we have it, the logo of the Polish COP is coal. However, that is not the logo of the Polish COP but of the city of Katowice, which wants to point out that they have indeed based their development on coal but are now striving for something that is more diverse and more sustainable. I took the marketing text off their website. They do say that they come from heavy industry, from coal, but that they are striving for new technologies and innovations and want to focus on sustainable investment. Here you can see the COP 24 logo, as well as a headline on the expression of good will of our Polish colleagues. They signal that despite their not so good reputation in the European climate negotiations, they are going for it. In doing so, they already presented a first list of priorities, earlier this year at a workshop in Sofia, Bulgaria, the Presidency of the European Union, being: of course, the Paris rulebook, so the drafting of those implementing rules, but also the focus on climate finance, an inevitable focus in the negotiations, both pre 2020, the 100 billion target, and what to do next. They want an interesting focus on content. I have just spoken in general terms with a few examples of this right agenda, which is sometimes a little marginal in our negotiations. One of them, I told you, concerns workers' rights. This is summarized under the words just transition in COP terminology. It seems that Poland, with the just transition of the workforce, wants to ensure that employment, quality of work and climate change are not against each other. They obviously have the future of their miners in mind, I suppose, and want to make it an interesting substantive focus. Then, of course, there is the Talanoa dialogue. This very briefly what we said at European level at the meeting of a fat month ago. About the Paris rulebook, for example. One of the things I'm explaining is that there's still a little year left to negotiate. What if that doesn't work out? What is the sufficient level of detail to be considered significant and maintain the credibility of the process? Some of the financial challenges. I was just talking about Article 9.5, the projected contribution or transfers of climate finance to developing countries, and a lot of others. I should perhaps like to highlight one of them in particular, in particular Article 2.1 C of the Paris Agreement, which states at the same level as the temperature objective that investment flows in the globalised economy must be made consistent with the temperature targets. That is why when I spoke just now about the One Planet Summit, I showed the example of how people in the financial world are already moving financial flows towards Paris. In the negotiations themselves, it is still a challenge to see how the international community will ensure the right signal to the financial and economic world, in addition to setting the general objective of consistency. I would like to go into more detail about what is going to happen at European level, particularly in the context of the Talanoa dialogue. I have just said that the parties are invited to organise local, regional and national consultations. This is being done at European level. The European Commission has announced that it will organise one or two Talanoa events and has also explicitly asked the Member States to do the same. It's not quite clear who's gonna do what. There are indications that some Member States will indeed organise specific events. It was agreed that we would inform each other about the type of events, in order to provide a coherent input to the international process. The regional cooperation may say "maybe" in 2018, if Belgium holds the presidency of the Benelux. Minister Marghem has spoken a number of times in this House about Benelux cooperation. I cannot tell you much more, except that there are discussions between our administration, the Dutch and Luxembourg administrations and the Benelux Secretariat, and that there is certainly a willingness to do something in this context as Benelux. My almost last slide is about the left. Mr President, I heard you just now asking whether it is the international level or, above all, what we are doing ourselves. What we are doing ourselves, of course, is also Europe. I cannot fail to inform you of the timelines within which European climate and energy policy will be organised in the context of the Energy Union, as set out in the Energy Union Governance Regulation. The negotiations are almost complete. The timelines for planning national energy and climate plans and their review and reporting on progress should be seen in the five-year cycle of ambition of the Paris Agreement. If we look at the next phase, the draft update plans will be in time in 2023 to inform the Global Stocktake the current cycle is called the Talanoa Dialogue, but afterwards that will be the Global Stocktake. The outcome of the Global Stocktake can then be taken into account when finalising the plans. These can then be included in the submission of a new NDC. This has not been possible at this stage. The design of national energy and climate plans will not be ready in time to give an input to the Talanoa dialogue, which will run in 2018. A balance had to be struck between the feasibility of designing the plans and the recognition of the relevant information that the plans may contain, e.g. information on long-term decarbonisation. The timing is a bit unfortunate, but there is an encouragement that is explicitly stated in the regulation for Member States that have already completed their draft plans to report them to the international process for the time being. Let us now consider the last slide. What will the European Union do to increase its level of ambition, which is, in fact, the post Talanoa objective? What are the indications currently available? The European Commission is revising its projections. You will recall that in 2011, the Commission published its low carbon roadmap, which was never formally approved by the Council again, "thanks" to our Polish colleagues, but which still served as a framework for the future. For example, at least 40% of our current EU 2030 targets are the result of this analysis. The Commission is in the process of finalising an update of the analyses by 2050 and beyond. Indeed, I did not say so, but the national Energy-Climate plans, in their long-term vision, are not only about 2050, but also about 2070. As far as increasing ambition is concerned, you are probably aware. In the context of the European negotiations, in particular on the Energy Union Governance Regulation, the European Parliament voted that the targets for renewables and energy efficiency should not be 27%, as proposed by the Commission, by 2030, but 35%. The European Parliament also decided that emissions in the EU should be zero by 2050. It is therefore no longer a question of the somewhat blurred ambition of 80-95% which was approved at European level many years ago. It has been learned that the European Commission at the highest level, in other words, at the level of President Juncker himself, not DG Climate, would be preparing a communication to be discussed at the next meeting of the European Council this month. I cannot give you any more explanations as to the content of this communication or the subjects on the agenda of the European Council. But it is important that you keep these elements in mind. Indeed, it is in this context that we will discuss the post Talanoa objective or the fact that it is acceptable that we are not collectively on the right path to the 1.5°C objective. Will the European Union show a willingness to revise its level of ambition in line with the IPCC report? In this context, is the European Union ready to review the target of at least 40% by 2030? I told you that our Dutch neighbours, in the Rutte III government agreement, have really increased the level of European ambition. They aspire to a coalition of willing at national level, if not at European level. I now show you two slides, which were shown a good month ago by the Dutch Climate Envoy, Ambassador Beukeboom, when he came to explain Dutch emissions to the Belgian policy stakeholders in the context of the International Environmental Policy Coordination Committee. He was joking when he said he recently read a book about the doughnut economy. It reminded him of the map I'm showing here. You can see here a map of North-West Europe, which is the subject of the Dutch coalition agreement. He pointed out that there were all countries around Belgium that wanted to go beyond what is being imposed today in a European context. In the middle is the hole in the doughnut. Mr President, I would like to conclude by thanking you for your attention. If there are any questions, I will, of course, try to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Witttoeck. Ladies and gentlemen, I can imagine that some of you would like to ask questions about this. Who would like to speak for a question on Mr Witttoeck's presentation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u56	Mr Wittoeck, I would like to return to the penultimate slide. There are no figures for Belgium yet. I assume you cannot say everything, but perhaps you can tell us how far we are at the moment in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u57	Mr President, I would like to share some thoughts. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Wittoeck for his very concrete presentation, which was not just technical. It has shown the balance, for the next COP, between the positive and negative points at present. Indeed, it is all too often assumed that the COPs revolve around only certain technical issues. In addition to the COPs, cities and non-state actors are important points. Among the positive points, the issues of the adaptation fund, loss and damage and women's rights are interesting. We must also count on the mobilization of cities and non-state actors, or "the real world", as you said. Another positive point is the fact that different countries are moving. Next to that, I would like to highlight the negative points, especially in connection with the IPCC report that has just come out. The first is the attitude of the United States, or perhaps more, Trump. You have presented the question of Poland positively, but I still have concerns. Various brochures and greenwashing have been presented, but Poland continues to block things as it has always done in Europe. It is not because the conference takes place in Katowice that Poles will suddenly be more positive. There was a conference in Poznan and Warsaw. The Poles blocked, even at the end of the discussion. I remain very concerned about Poland's position. You say there's a year left to negotiate, but in a year's time, it's tomorrow. It's very short. On the Belgian side, we are not quite ready either, given the timing required. We will have to keep an eye on Europe's position. Let us not forget that we are entering a European campaign year. We are six months ahead of the European elections. Will Europe position itself in a very ambitious way just before this campaign? All this leads us to say that our statement must also be ambitious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u58	Mr President, I thank Mr Peter Wittoeck who presented the subject here. However, I still have a few questions. At some point, you say, "How can the financial world take a step forward?" This is a permanent issue. I would add that you have talked about long-term decarbonisation. Is the long term still in use at the moment, given that things are going very fast? In conclusion, I have a question about the harm you mentioned. There are several of them. You have, for example, prejudices in the management of what is considered to be the lungs of the earth, some forests especially in Brazil or the Democratic Republic of the Congo. But all these forests are being attacked wildly and the financial world you originally cited is not without question in this regard. He's not innocent. So how do you see the long term becoming short-term tomorrow? How can the financial world get involved properly? Should we not have State control? By state, I mean in particular those states that have a certain degree of political stability as in Europe and, let us also mention, the United States, but that is yet another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u59	Professor, I do not know if it is your competence, but there is political will on the one hand and technological possibilities on the other. A text in which it is said – in Europe or elsewhere – that we are going to reduce CO2 emissions by 50% by 2030 and a zero carbon society by 2050, it is written. Political will has effects in some countries. For example, at car level, in some countries such as the Netherlands, Norway or China, political pressure is gradually shifting to electricity. But the electric emits CO2 too. As far as you have the competence, how do you see the evolution of technologies to stick to these beautiful objectives? Otherwise, it is written, but in practice the compressor roller of our daily consumption will continue to climb the thermometer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u60	Mr Witttoeck, you will have the floor again to answer the various questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u61	Mr President, I will do my best to answer the questions. Mr Danen's question was about the Belgian level of ambition. I suppose this is about the European context, the negotiations on efficiency sharing. Those negotiations are over. The Belgian level of ambition for the sectors outside the European emissions trading system, i.e. mainly buildings and transport and further agriculture and waste, is established. This will be 35% less by 2030 compared to 2005 as a base year. That percentage should not be confused with the 40% I was talking about earlier. That figure is certain, although the legislation has not yet been published. It is not yet formally applicable, but it certainly is in practice. The same applies to the level of ambition of Belgian companies that will be covered by the European emissions trading system. The objective is set. The trajectory is fixed. All modalities for the revised European Emissions Trading System have been decided. I hope that answers the question. Mrs Huytebroeck has made a number of statements in particular. I will not risk political statements unless I have not understood that she has asked for clarification here and there. I can vouch for what she said. It's tomorrow, indeed. We don't have much time. We still managed to do it a year before Paris, in the same state. I therefore remain optimistic that at COP 24, we will be able to reach an agreement that is on the road. Mr Kompany, the long term is not tomorrow; 2050 is approaching, just like 2070. The long-term investments and the political choices that are supposed to lead us towards this decarbonisation must be taken today. How will this article of the Paris Agreement be made operational to make financial flows coherent? That's a question. It is not obvious for an international agreement such as the Paris Agreement to have an influence on the financial world. I tried to illustrate my point by the initiatives taken at the Paris Summit (One Planet Summit). On the one hand, the sector itself seems to realize its responsibility. On the other hand, public forums such as the IMF and the Financial Stability Board are working on what is known as the Climate Disclosure, forcing companies to be transparent in their investments in order to know how they influence the climate, but also how vulnerable they are to climate impacts and a policy to impose a low carbon constraint - with the risk of stranded asset. You recalled the importance of forests by mentioning Brazil and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I had not explicitly mentioned this in my transparency, but the role of forests in international negotiations has always been crucial. This has always proved difficult. It will be addressed in various themes related to the Paris Agreement. We are talking about accounting, with forest statistics, but also about the relationship between forest conservation and the carbon market. It's always been complicated and it's still complicated. You mentioned state control over compliance. At the international level, we are discussing paper rules, and compliance with these rules is essential. There, sovereign states – which are parties to a convention such as the Paris Agreement – have a crucial role to play. Compared to the technological possibilities, I am not a professor – but thank you for the compliment! – and I'm not a technology specialist. Projections that show the gap between theoretical and current trajectories are based not only on paper but also on very concrete and numerous analyses of technological and economic potentials. Without being able to answer you precisely on any particular technology, I do not believe that the gap between the paper that is written and the possibilities known to specialists is so great. You mentioned some particular technologies for which it is sometimes found that their price – for example for batteries, which are essential for the development of the electric car – is going down exponentially. The same applies to renewable energy. This observation is made by everyone. For example, the latest World Energy Outlook – which is sometimes criticized for being too conservative – also goes in this direction. I am therefore rather optimistic, since there are many signals confirming that these projections, these analyses, these models are becoming reality. But this will not happen without intervention, and that is why agreements such as the Paris Agreement – and its implementation at national and European levels – are important to provide a framework. I hope I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-05-54-commissie-ic831x.u62	Thank you, Mr Wittoeck. Is anyone asking for the floor for any reply or conclusion? [[No, no, ……]] I note that no one is asking for the floor, so the answers will be extremely satisfactory for the Members of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that our sitting be closed. In the meantime, we have made the necessary arrangements for the continuation of our work. You will, of course, be informed of this by means of the invitation, which, of course, takes account of the deadlines, so that we can have the texts in time. Thank you for being here until the finish.
