ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u1	Mrs. Willaert is sorry. Mr Van Hees, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u2	Madam President, Minister, on February 17, the President of the Liga voor de Mensenrechten once again stressed the importance of an effective human rights institution, which can, for example, give opinions on whether all proposals or bills comply with respect for human rights. This was followed by a discussion within the government. Thus, Secretary of State Theo Francken reacted negatively, considering that the proposal was aimed at his project on home visits, while it has been announced since 2014. Minister, you share this competence with Secretary of State Zuhal Demir. The Commission presented the establishment of such an institution as a priority when it took office. In an interview on March 3, 2018, she finally spoke about the form that this institution should take. According to her, Unia, Myria, and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men must be merged into a single institution. At a later date, the Privacy Commission, the R Committee and the P Committee should join them. Your position is known: you do not want a merger but a umbrella organization. This position was endorsed by Liesbeth Steven, Deputy Director of the Institute for Gender Equality. She pointed out that, in the event of a merger, certain topics would be pushed back to the background. Minister, who is in charge of this matter? Did you discuss the matter with Ms. Demir, as she announced her short-term intentions in her interview? If not, when is this discussion planned? Will Secretary of State Franken be present, given his strong opinion on the file? What is the time frame for the establishment of this institution? Has the government set a deadline? What is the government's position on the form and competence of this institution?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u3	As explained above, the work on the Human Rights Institute falls under the co-chairship of Justice and Equal Opportunities. Indeed, the draft note setting up the Human Rights Institute was almost ready, but as Mr Demir said, she wanted to put her own accents. During the second half of 2017, intense discussions between firms were held in order to arrive at a structure enabling us to meet our obligations under international law. In this way, Belgium can act as an interlocutor in the international community. My objective is in no way to suppress or limit other organizations, possibly with the exception of the National Commission for the Rights of the Child. The aim is and will continue to be to lay the foundations of the Human Rights Institute by the end of the legislature. Such an institute has a number of core tasks. For example, the institution advises on its own initiative or at the request of the government on legislative texts or on violations it identifies. It also develops campaigns and programmes to raise citizens' awareness. My commitment remains clear. At the beginning of February, I sent a letter to Mr Demir and asked her to complete the framework paper. I am convinced that, on the basis of the outcome of the discussions, a number of principles can be anchored, which can lead to a viable proposal, realistic to be achieved during this legislative period.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I understand correctly, you are waiting for your colleague Demir to finally want to participate in a debate and a joint project to be developed. Things are slow to take shape. We do not know if you are on the same wavelength; it is not very clear. He seemed to me to understand that this was not the case. Your answer did not bring me any clarification on this question. I assume that this subject is for the time being reserved for internal discussions. A little transparency would probably have been desirable, but I understand you didn't want to say any more.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u5	Minister, over the last few months, several reports have been published about young, often underage, Nigerian girls working in prostitution in our country. A European approach is necessary. For example, there is the European ETUTU project which exchanges information and expertise on Nigerian trafficking in human beings at European level. The European definition of the concept of trafficking in human beings is reflected in the 2011 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention and combating of trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims of such trafficking. However, what is not covered by an agreement in Europe is the penalty for trafficking in human beings. Where in Spain and the United Kingdom a human trafficker gets a minimum of 6 years and the number of years per victim is multiplied, in Belgium it often involves penalties of 5 to 6 years and in Germany it is even less. This creates problems: the smugglers are very mobile and spread throughout Europe and can therefore quickly transfer girls to countries where the risk to traders is lower. For example, there is the file BITE about a criminal Nigerian network that rustled Nigerian girls from Spain to Belgium for sexual exploitation. The girls concerned had to work in different European countries. Since the Spanish police could gather many more elements around the suspects, it was decided to transfer the file BITE in its entirety to the Spanish authorities for further investigation. The Spanish Public Prosecutor's Office is seeking a 43-year sentence for each accused, which is 172 years in total. If we had brought the suspects with a European arrest warrant to Belgium, the prosecution could at best have requested detention between 6 and 8 years. I therefore have the following questions about this coordinated European approach. What measure of punishment is on average pronounced in Belgium for trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation? Are there often aggravating circumstances used in the ruling? Can you give an overview of these statements? How do these figures relate to the pronounced penalties in other countries of the European Union? Do you have any figures at your disposal for the penalties imposed in countries such as Spain, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany? What are the possibilities with regard to working towards harmonisation of penalties for trafficking in human beings at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u6	Convicts for trafficking in human beings shall be entered in the database of convictions. However, the different types of trafficking in human beings such as sexual exploitation are not systematically recorded separately. Technically, however, it would be possible to carry out a sample of the convictions for trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation and to link the sentences pronounced to them. However, it is not possible to do so within the short-term of an oral question. In 2016, there were 139 convictions with 261 aggravating circumstances. Very often, abuse of vulnerability is taken into account because it is one of the elements at the heart of the problem of trafficking in human beings as well as the use of threats or violence. The latest Eurostat report on trafficking in human beings dates back to 2015. It is available on Eurostat's website and contains information on convictions and prosecutions, but not on the sentences pronounced. On the harmonisation of penalties for trafficking in human beings at European level, I can tell you that the European Directive 2011/36 on trafficking in human beings already contains elements on harmonisation. The Directive requires States to introduce a maximum sentence of at least 5 years in the case of trafficking in human beings and a penalty of 10 years in the case of certain aggravating circumstances. These aspects are, of course, also included in the current reform of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u7	Minister, it seems that smugglers are well aware of where the highest penalty rate is actually applied. We look forward to the Criminal Code to see if there is an increase in the penalty rate. After all, the girls are permanently exploited when the dealer in a country is in danger of being convicted. There should be coordination and harmonisation at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u8	Minister, the new nationality legislation is already five years old. I have been working on the amendments here in Parliament with Mrs Van Cauter and other colleagues. Together, we have established that law. However, the application of the law after five years still often appears to be wrong. Many municipalities are still not well informed. Some municipalities even provide outdated information, which relates to criteria of prior legislative amendment. We often also hear from people in the field that there is a discussion about the residence permits that are or are not taken into account and about the means of proof that must be provided to prove their economic participation. Moreover, there are also municipal authorities that do not take into account the less stringent criteria for people who are ten years in our country, and even do not refer to them at all. On the contrary, they adhere to the stricter criteria imposed on people who have been in the country for five years. The contact points of the municipalities are not provided with the correct information. I've noticed that repeatedly. A few weeks ago, one of the French-speaking colleagues also spoke to me here in Parliament on a particular dossier. In his municipality, it seems that there is also some error in the interpretation of the law. The law stipulates that a five-year legal residence must be demonstrated. At the time of the application for nationality one must hold a residence permit of indefinite duration. Some municipalities interpret this quite differently and say that when one has a succession of different residence permits, the counter is always set to zero with each change. Suppose someone came here as a student, then got married here or started working. The fact that the counter is repeatedly set to zero is, of course, not correct, because we have explained this very explicitly in the course of the discussion of the law. Every form of legal residence counts, even though that is a few years' stay while an asylum procedure is followed by right of residence on the basis of family reunification or as a student and thereafter working. Everything has to count. So there is already a problem of interpretation in this area. Some municipalities have a different interpretation and only have half of certain periods counted. I don't know where all this came from. With regard to economic participation, there is also often discussion of documents. Some come up with documents from a social secretariat that may or may not be accepted. In this respect, I would recommend applying the only once principle. In principle, the databases contain all the data of people who work, even if they work part-time. If you work part-time, you count until you reach the required number of days. We had committed this to a period of one and a half years of full-time work, expressed in x number of days. This is maintained by the social security services. In order to avoid discussions, this should be directly requested by the municipalities. That was the intention when we worked out the law. Another element on which there is a great deal of dispute is the knowledge of one of the three national languages and, above all, the level of that knowledge. The law stipulated that the level A2 of the European Framework of Reference for Languages should be achieved. However, this would be further developed in a KB. In this KB, numerous examples of how to prove this are given. For example, if you have worked for five years, this is treated as knowledge of the language because it is assumed that someone who works for that long also has the knowledge of the local language. The Royal Decree also provides that the knowledge of the language can also be demonstrated by a document which shows that an integration course has been completed. This is very explicitly stated in the KB and yet a number of prosecutors do not accept an integration certificate because the level A2 applies to oral knowledge and A1 to written knowledge. They consider this A1 level insufficient. The legislator has put particular emphasis on social reliance. For this reason, we have included, among other things, the integration certificate in the law. Some prosecutors in Limburg and Antwerp are making this a problem. A solution must therefore be found here as a matter of urgency. The then Minister of Justice stated that, in addition to the explanatory letter, training would also be organized for civil status officials on the new law. Information brochures would also be made. Have those training courses and information brochures been there? On the ground, however, we can see that there are still many problems and municipalities are still giving false information today. Is it not necessary to repeat the information campaigns and brochures so that the municipal authorities do give the right information to people who want to become Belgian? Is the information provided sufficiently clear as regards the type of residence permit that can be taken into account and the continuous residence associated with it? There are still a lot of uncertainties in this area, whereas the legislation is actually very clear. In my view, the legislation in this area should not be amended, but should be made clear in particular on the ground. Is there any willingness to apply the only once principle with regard to obtaining information on the working days worked? If this is not possible or not immediately, what other solutions can be provided to clarify the documents to be submitted? Can it be listed which documents can serve to ensure that they are applied in the same way by all municipalities? Can you confirm that an integration course is sufficient, as stated in the Royal Decree of 14 January 2013, even though the written knowledge of level A1 is sufficient? However, the oral knowledge is indeed at A2 level. That's all that matters. Can you confirm that an integration certificate is sufficient to prove the knowledge of one of the three national languages?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u9	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, on request, my services took an active part in various training days for civil society officials organised by their professional association. No information brochures were made available. However, a lot of information can be consulted on the websites of both the FPS Justice and other public services, for example the Flemish Agency Integration and Integration. The new legislation was also explained in detail, including on the basis of cases in the Ministerial circular dated 8 March 2013, issued following the Law of 4 December 2012. The Royal Decree of 14 January 2013 implementing the same law also contains detailed rules, for example on residence permits, which make the application of the Code uniform. In the meantime, the electronic platform for civil status was also established, exclusively for the benefit of the municipalities, where various cases are explained in relation to family law, name law and nationality law, and the Standing Committee for Civil Status was re-established by Royal Decree of 29 May 2016. The Royal Decree of 14 January 2013 contains in an exhaustive manner the residence permits which may be taken into account for proof of the legal residence. The ministerial circular has devoted a full chapter to the concept of legal residence, which also addresses the problem of temporary absence. The directives seem to me to be clear and complete. In the light of the forthcoming change in the law on nationality, I will ensure that the amended circular again contains very clear guidelines. The concept of working day is important both for the conditions of social integration and for economic participation. Article 7 of the Royal Decree of 14 January 2013 determines how the number of working days is to be proven. This information is not always available to the social security institutions, as I know, and if it is, then there may be concerns about the privacy of individuals, so that this should certainly be thoroughly framed. The only once principle indicates that the public authorities may not request the information they already have from the legal person for a second time. Now, the Royal Decree of 14 January 2013 already provided in its fourth chapter for measures to introduce administrative simplification whereby, in certain cases, the applicant Belg is exempted from adding documents to his application. The proof of linguistic knowledge should be provided on the basis of the evidence provided for in the Royal Decree of 14 January 2013. According to this royal decree, the legal language level A2 remains fully required, as also indicated in the report to the King. This implies that an integration course which uses only a level A1 for a language course can only serve as evidence of social integration, but not as proof of the knowledge of one of the national languages of the legally required level A2.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u10	Madam President, Minister, there is indeed a great deal of opportunity. I often consult the website to which you refer myself and I refer a lot of people to it. There are indeed a lot of places where information can be found. You say that training was organized at the time, but we still note today that there are problems with interpretation. There's that circular. I have read it and it is very clear, but there are still problems with interpretation. There is a draft law on nationality legislation under consideration. As a result of this, there will be a sent-around letter, which is good. However, the question remains whether it is being applied and whether it is being interpreted correctly. Although the information is available, it does not appear to be interpreted correctly by the competent services. What are people supposed to do when they run up against a wall? Is there a hotline? It is not yet a question of appeal, but they cannot even apply because the official says that the application is incomplete or incorrect or does not even accept it. I hope you will also provide an information point where people can complain. Regarding the level A2 or A1 of integration, A2 does indeed refer to the oral part and A1 to the written part. This has nothing to do with social integration, so I hope you will check this out, because that is not entirely correct. The integration course consists of three parts. First there is a social orientation given in a contact language. Then there is the language course and then the referral to work. A fourth part is even guidance to work. As regards the second part on language, level A2 refers to the oral part and level A1 to the written part. I also taught Dutch second language at the time. There's definitely a problem there. The letter is clear in that respect. There is an integration certificate and not A1, A2, A4 or whatever. In total, eight slopes can be followed. It was previously stipulated that an integration certificate should be accepted, so I do not understand that some do not today. There is another problem in that regard. I hope that with the new circular you will provide clarification in addition to a possible contact point to be set up where people or officials can contact with their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u11	Madam President, Minister, in the early 2000s Marc Callu joined the Cradle of the Gaming Commission. As a former detective with the judicial police, he was specialised in the gambling sector. This knowledge came in handy with the development of the regulator for the games of chance. For fourteen years, until February 2015, Callu was the Dutch-speaking face of the Gaming Commission. At his retirement three years ago, Callu worked as a strategic expert in gambling and was head of cell control. He knew the gaming industry like no other, the Gaming Commission wrote about Callu in its annual report 2015. The same document reports in a completely different place the establishment of the European Gaming Compliance Institution (EGCI). The main participants are Napoleon Games, Eurautomat, Versailles Palace, Ladbrokes, Unibet and Eurotiercé, the big players on the Belgian gambling market. The aim of the ECCI is to defend the common interests of these companies, i.e. the gambling sector. Marc Callu is co-founder of the EGCI and now works as a consultant. The man who has watched for years to comply with the rules on casinos, gaming halls, gambling sites and all other things that come into gaming, has been providing his expertise to those same gambling companies since his retirement. To an earlier question on the ambiguous attitude of the Gaming Commission, you replied to me that it goes without saying that the Gaming Commission must always place consumer protection and the safeguarding of public order at the centre of its tasks. You will understand that, in the circumstances, there are even more doubts about the actual truth of what you said at the time. People who use our public funds to acquire knowledge from a regulator often want to stay active after retirement and support the sector they previously controlled in relations with the regulator. They know all the ins and outs and don't forget those, once they're out of service. Especially in the case of games of chance, which, together with the committee, do not have a very good reputation, this is ethically questionable. Even though someone does not get richer by sharing certain knowledge, without realizing it, he may contribute to the undermining of the rules. Even Professor of Public Administration Filip De Rynck of Ghent University. Mr Minister, that is why I have the following questions. Don't there have any rules about that? If there are no rules, shouldn't you formulate one? There is certainly a blurring of standards in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u12	Two further questions have been added to this question. Mr Brecht Vermeulen reported that he was coming. We'll have to wait and see. I give the floor to Mr Van Hees for his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for allowing me to ask my question, even though Mrs Lambrecht has already described the situation of this conflict of interest or of "rotating doors"; people move from the public to the private sector, in the same sector of activity. The link is very close in this case. First, do you think this is an isolated case in the gambling sector or are you aware of other cases? Secondly, how many times has the gambling commission been in contact with the person concerned since his retirement? Third, have you or your firm been in contact with the European Gaming Compliancy Institute (EGCI) in recent years? Fourthly, in your view, is it not necessary to strengthen the code of ethics for those responsible for the gambling commission, in particular to stop this phenomenon of rotating doors?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u14	Mr Van Hees, Mrs Lambrecht, questioning the Gaming Committee teaches me that Mr Callu had two qualities in committee. In a first period, he was an expert police officer and then a member of the committee, in the period from 2006 to 2013, to remain there as an expert police officer until 2015. Among other things, Article 11 of the Gaming Act explicitly provides for certain inconsistencies for the Chairman and the members of the Committee. For example, during their term of office they should not have direct or indirect interests in a gambling establishment or other licensed activities. Even after the end of their mandate, a five-year cooling-off period is provided for by law in which they must respect that rule. Strictly according to the letter of the law, there may be discussion as to whether a consultancy activity can be seen as an interest in a gambling establishment or another licensed activity. However, the spirit of Article 11 of the Gaming Act is clear and consists in avoiding conflicts of interest in any way possible. In a sector such as games of chance, where the views of the public authorities and the private sector do not necessarily coincide, that seems to me to be important. However, in order to further clarify that ratio, I will further refine the legislative framework so that this type of consultancy activity is also endorsed by the incompatibility during the mandate or during the cooling-off period of five years thereafter. I would also like to see whether we can register this not only for the members of the committee, but also for the seconded police officers working there. In my view, it is in all cases obvious that a personal ethics problem arises when consulting when we have just retired, in close contact with the sector we previously controlled. I am aware that such incidents have a negative impact on the reputation of the gambling commission. However, the work of some should not be equated with that of an entire organization. According to the information I have received from the gambling committee, Mr Callu has no longer had any contact with Commission staff in relation to specific cases. As far as my office is concerned, I have been informed that no direct contact has taken place. On February 19, 2018, we received a letter from the consulting company EGCI signed by Marc Callu asking to index the maximum losses of the games of chance. In order to further modernise the committee and develop it into a strong regulator, I am considering an external study on how to improve its internal structure. A tighter separation between the investigation and the police officers and the secretariat of the committee and the prosecution and punishment - these are the members of the committee - seems to me to be appropriate for the future and will contribute to a more objective look of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u15	Minister, I understand from your answer that you also think there is a major problem of blurring standards and ethics. You will refine the legislative framework and we will be very happy to support you in the Committee on Justice: the more refinement and the more ethical guarantees, the better. You are also talking about five years of cooling down, but I would like to ask you whether ten years is not better, because I do not think that anyone has cooled down after five years when he comes from that sector. Finally, an external study is good, but do you have any idea when that external study will be completed? I will certainly ask you about it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u16	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I take note that no direct contact has taken place with your firm. I take note of the fact that you consider that there is indeed a serious ethical problem in this case. Finally, I take note with satisfaction of the fact that you will refine the legal framework to extend what you call the "cooling period" to other functions, including those who lobby. I would simply say to conclude that the problem of turning doors is, in my opinion, a fairly regular one, at different levels of the state. I don't think it's important enough. In any case, I take note with satisfaction of your decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u17	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Unfortunately, I have not been able to ask my questions because at that time I was listening to a reply from Minister Jambon to another question from me in the Committee on the Interior. Too bad the other colleagues didn't really show any courtesy by waiting for a moment because they knew I was coming. I hear, Minister, that you want the Gaming Commission to act as a strong regulator. You also announced earlier that 20 additional staff would be recruited. This is absolutely necessary because at the moment the Gaming Commission is threatening to become a paper tiger for lack of people and resources. As far as the specific case is concerned, I believe that, even if everything is done in a legally correct manner, the framework can be made much clearer and clearer in order to avoid ethical blurring in the future. As regards the length of the cooling-off period up to 10 years after retirement, Mrs Lambrecht, I believe that everyone will have to work much longer before they can retire.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u18	Mr Vermeulen, I thought you were on your way. I was so spotted. I therefore believe that you do not have to blame colleagues for this. We thought you'd be there right away. My apologies! It's nobody's fault.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u19	I think that Mrs Lambrecht and I would have responded favourably to the request to postpone. If the request had been made to us, we would have had no problems in responding to that request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 24021 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u21	Mr Minister, it is with great concern that we have learned of the decision of the Turkish State to place the Belgian citizen Bahar Kimyongür on the list of the most wanted terrorists with a reward of 214 000 euros promised for any information leading to his capture. This is a serious matter, especially when one knows that, in a decree, the Turkish State grants immunity to all civilians, regardless of the nature of their actions, when they act in the name of anti-terrorism or to prevent an attempt to overthrow the government; and, on the other hand, that many opponents of the Turkish State have been killed or attacked in recent years, including in Europe. Recall that Bahar Kimyongür was acquitted for these alleged acts of terrorism (the so-called DHKP-C case) and that, despite the pressure of Turkey and the assistance given by several European States, including Belgium, to the latter, his arrest and extradition have always been refused by the courts of the various countries where this has been attempted. Justice has clearly established that the information work carried out by Mr. Kimyongür is a matter of freedom of opinion and cannot be equated with acts of terror. On 22 August 2014, Interpol officially withdrew the "red notice" for the Belgian national. Today the Turkish State is returning to the offensive, and we can only worry about this measure in terms of democratic rights. Minister, what is the official position of the government following this decision to put the head of a Belgian citizen at a price? What are the measures taken by the government? More specifically, in your capacity as Minister of Justice, what steps can be taken at the legal level by Mr Kimyongür? How was the threat assessed for Mr. Kimyongür? And what protection will the Belgian State offer its national?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u22	Mr Van Hees, there is no legal possibility for Belgium to prevent Turkey from criminally prosecuting certain persons. An acquittal in Belgium is not enforceable against Turkey. Belgium will, however, strongly oppose that the measures taken in Turkey, including any award-winning research opinion, have an impact on Belgian territory outside the applicable judicial cooperation mechanisms. These mechanisms are strictly regulated, in particular by the impossibility for Belgium to extradite its nationals. Anyone who attempted to follow up on such a measure on Belgian territory would immediately fall under Belgian criminal law. As has already been pointed out in the past, Belgium will not tolerate the export of internal conflicts to Turkey to Belgium. The question of possible protection granted to the person concerned concerns in the first place the Crisis Centre, and therefore the Minister of the Interior. Finally, I can inform you that threat assessments have been requested and that action is being taken on the basis of its level of evaluation. It is impossible for me to inform you further at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u23	Minister, thank you. I can hear your answer. I would have liked more information, including on threat assessment. As far as protection is concerned, I understand that it is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. I had addressed my question to you and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I could also have questioned your colleague from the Interior, but I thought that by limiting myself to two recipients, I could have received an answer as to the protections that can be granted to a Belgian citizen who simply performs an information mission. Today, a carte blanche is published in Le Soir in order to request that the Belgian State take all measures to ensure the security of Bahar Kimyongür. As the text points out, the situation in Turkey is quite worrying: dozens of newspapers have been closed, more than 50,000 opponents are imprisoned, thousands of civil servants have been dismissed. I give you an excerpt: "It is in this context that a new campaign is being carried out by the Turkish government to terrorise those who, abroad, persist in criminalizing its authoritarianism, the rule of brute force and the laws of exception". I hope that the government is taking real action on this matter and that real protective measures are being taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u24	Several questions put together under item 8 are on the way. Since there may be several obstacles along the way, we shall skip this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u25	Madam President, Minister, the Hasselt prison was built 13 years ago for 340 men and 30 women to allow prisoners to serve their detention in a decent environment. At present, the Hasselt prison is overcrowded with 200 prisoners and is sleeping there, according to your previous answer to one of my questions, 76 prisoners on the ground, 67 men and 9 women. Mr Minister, why is the problem of ground sleepers so big just in Hasselt? What are the specific solutions for the Hasselt prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, first of all I should like to stress that the prison in Hasselt mainly has an arrest house function and that, therefore, the penitentiary administration has no impact on the influx of prisoners. Influx of inmates into custody has increased considerably over the last few months. The overpopulation is therefore particularly situated in this category of prisoners and gives rise to the lodging of more than one prisoner per cell. Nevertheless, prisoners also reside in this prison, which for various reasons should be placed alone in a cell. Apart from individual factors, this also applies, for example, to the inmates in the drug-free department and in the deradex department, for reasons specific to these departments. As a result, the overpopulation is concentrated in a number of other departments of the prison. This has led to a number of inmates having to sleep on a mattress on the ground. The administration runs two runs to solve this problem. At first one looks at a material solution, which consists of placing bunk beds in number of cells. Secondly, attempts are being made to transfer a number of convicted detainees to other prisons. For example, over the past few weeks, 32 prisoners have been transferred. Currently, the number of ground sleepers in Hasselt has fallen to 56. The implementation of the above measures should further reduce that figure to 0.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u27	Minister, that the number of ground sleepers will fall from 56 to 0 is in line with your answer to my previous question. Last week, you said it'd be six weeks. I can therefore assume that the number of ground sleepers can be reduced to 0 within 5 weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u28	Mr Minister, reports continue to come about the attitude of the ad-interim director of the Firearms Trial Bank. I now hear that there is a great deal of discontent among the authorized arms dealers. They do not take it that several colleagues are refused because they are not Belgian, despite having been admitted for years. Nor do they take it that arms dealers whose staff are offered are refused, as they would have to go themselves. The same reasoning is not followed by large firms such as FN-Browning, where it is not the responsible self who should go. However, Article 5 of the Arms Act expressly allows persons under the authority, direction and supervision of an approved arms dealer to carry out activities such as the transport of arms. The law therefore expressly provides for the obligation to inform the governor of the recruitment of staff. Can you explain on what legal basis the ad interim director of the test bench is currently refusing to allow persons acting on behalf of authorised arms dealers to present themselves? Furthermore, the ad-interim director, who is a judicial police officer, systematically confiscates semi-automatic weapons that were once converted from automatic weapons. Semi-automatic weapons are classified as licensed under Article 3 (3) of the Arms Act. The governors have therefore been granting permits for such weapons since the new arms law. In other words, a citizen who buys a weapon authorised by the governor risks another government, namely the test bench, confiscating that weapon, because the ad interim director adds conditions to the arms law. Such an attitude undermines the confidence that citizens must have in the legislation, which also undermines confidence in the government's proposed amnesty measure. Will you take measures to stop this malpractice at the test bench? If so, which one? In reply to an oral question put last week, on the basis of paragraph 3.1.4 of the circular of 25 October 2011, you indicated that authorised traders can only order the quantity indicated on the order form that is prohibited for the private market. You stated that no stock can be built. However, the circular of October 25, 2011 is not a binding circular. In its introduction it reads: "This circular may not be read in any way as an extension, amendment, replacement or deletion of existing legal or regulatory provisions." Well, Article 27 (1) of the Arms Act states that the law does not apply to orders for order services. Nowhere in the law can it be read that this means that for each order it is required that the quantity ordered corresponds one by one to the quantity purchased. The Arms Act therefore certainly allows arms dealers who can demonstrate that they regularly receive orders from order services to keep a limited stock in order to be able to respond to requests from order services for urgent delivery. The position expressed in the circular may jeopardise public security, as that position prevents law-enforcement services from getting the material they need quickly. The strict conditions for recognition as an arms trade, the annual checks by the federal police and the severe penalties for infringements provide sufficient guarantees for the strict application of that exception. In the light of this, Minister, are you prepared to reconsider the position expressed in the circular and to allow authorised arms dealers who can demonstrate that they regularly supply order services to maintain a stock in order to respond to requests for urgent delivery of order services? If you are not prepared to accept this, can you confirm that the circular of 25 October 2011 has binding force?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u29	Mr Degroote, according to the arms law, the persons carrying out activities under the authority, direction and supervision of an approved arms dealer should not be recognised separately. Their entry into office must be reported to the governor. The firearms trial bank refuses to provide services only to persons who cannot demonstrate that they meet those conditions. They are, for example, family members of arms dealers. For foreign arms dealers, the test bench cannot verify whether they are effectively recognised and whether they have the weapons they offer legally in their possession. In the meantime, we have solved that problem by means of a Royal Decree of 26 February 2018. In future, the test bench will be able to neutralize or destroy weapons only if the applicant submits a police certificate showing that he has the weapon legally in his possession and that it has not been ended. This scheme also applies to Belgian traders and private individuals. The procedure shall take effect on 14 March. So I expect there will be no more problems with this from then on. For the conversion of fully automatic firearms, the test bench informed us that it cannot be guaranteed that the conversion is irreversible. My services are therefore examining whether the possibility of transposition can still be retained in the future. Firearms that have already been converted by the Belgian test bench will remain valid for the time being and will therefore not be seized. The test bench has clearly indicated on its website and in its workshop that it will no longer perform conversions for the time being. You also had a question about the creation of a stock of prohibited weapons. I remain of the opinion that the arms law does not allow this at the moment. The ministerial circular is not binding but gives a clear interpretation that is in accordance with the law. If the police have any problems with orders, I suggest they let us know so we can look into this. In general, I can tell you that the ad interim director of the test bench wants to apply the rules correctly so that public safety is guaranteed. My services are always working with the test bench and other partners to develop solutions, where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. From your answer, I conclude that the problems identified at the test bench level are apparently interpreted differently and are not going so fast. I'll have this examined. It is noteworthy that a lot of complaints have been coming in lately. It cannot be that the board of the test bench takes note of the complaints, pours a sauce on them and presents it here as if there were no dirt in the air. I look forward with interest to the further development of certain weapons as I also receive complaints on a regular basis. I believe that this situation must be kept under constant review. Thank you for your commitment, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u31	Mr Minister, it has been some time since 5 August 2014 that the target 4 nuclear reactor was shut down, after the steam turbine overheated by maliciously leaking lubricating oil. Since then, that incident has been regularly reviewed as the sabotage of Objective 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u32	Président: Raf Terwingen. In December 2014, at the request of my colleague Van Hecke, you stated that the investigation into sabotage was ongoing and that it was federalised. I have included the full quote in the written version of my question. I realize that some restraint is in place. Nevertheless, it has been a while and there is still no clarity about the sabotage, while it is still an important incident. Hence my relatively simple question to you as Minister of Justice. What is the state of the investigation? You will understand that we are following the issue with particular attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u33	Mr Calvo, the facts cited are still the subject of a judicial investigation with the investigating judge in Dendermonde, at the request of the federal prosecutor. That investigation is ongoing and continues. In the light of the separation of powers, in order not to compromise the secret of the preliminary investigation and the investigation, I am obliged to refrain from any communication of a detail on the facts or the investigation. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u34	Minister, I have already indicated that some restraint is appropriate. I am surprised that the investigation is still ongoing and that there is still no clarity. That also raises serious questions about nuclear safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u35	Mr President, there is also a certain reluctance to investigate nuclear exports. What is the subject of the dossier, which is very relevant and has a fairly long history? In 2010, Parliamentary questions revealed an export of depleted uranium gamma-graphy devices to Iran, an infringement of the law of 9 February 1981 on the conditions for exports of nuclear materials and nuclear equipment as well as of technological data. On a regular basis, I question the Minister for Energy on the subject and the latest reply showed that the judicial investigation is still ongoing. The Energy Minister referred to you for a state of affairs. Now that the investigation has taken so long, can you give me an update on the investigation into exports of gamma-graphy devices to Iran? In the meantime, a new legal investigation would also have been opened, according to the reply of the Minister for Energy. There could be further infringements of the law of 9 February 1981. Can you give us more information on the state of the investigation, where and how it is conducted?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u36	Mr Calvo, the information requested concerns judicial files again, which are protected by the secrecy of the investigation. Nevertheless, I can communicate the following information provided by the prosecution. The first file on which you request information is currently being examined by the investigating judge in Charleroi. This is a Canadian company that sold its Belgian site with nuclear equipment for medical purposes to another foreign company, setting up a financial commission so that the buyer could process the nuclear waste. The research has three components: one on the avoidance of funds, one on the abandonment of nuclear waste and one on the export of nuclear material to Iran. It shall be stated that the material exported was not dangerous. This examination takes some time by the international requests for legal aid, which must be carried out in this context. The second case concerns an investigation conducted by the Prosecutor of the King of Charleroi concerning the non-compliance with Belgian nuclear legislation. They are violations of the law of 9 February 1981, in particular the use of obsolete material on the nuclear site contained in the cited file. It should be noted that there is no risk to the public and that the Public Prosecutor's Office cooperates closely with the Federal Nuclear Safety Agency, which conducts very regular on-the-spot checks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u37	Mr Van Hees and Mr Maingain are not present, as are Mrs Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u38	Mr President, Minister, according to the newspaper Le Soir of this 2 March, several transgender people who requested a change of civil status received a summons from the police and were then subjected to very thorough interrogations, this in the judicial districts of Liège, Hainaut and Luxembourg. Since the adoption of the law of 25 June 2017, which we have all worked hard on in this commission, which came into force on 1 January, the King's Prosecutor can deliver an opinion within three months of the filing of the application. If the opinion is favourable, the applicant returns to the services of the population of the municipality and thus quickly obtains his new identity. In response to a letter sent to you by an interested party concerning the existence of abusive controls, you said: "The Public Prosecutor's Office will therefore not intervene systematically". In any case, it would seem that in Liège, these police convocations, and the resulting in-depth investigations, are automatic, in the name of the risks of identity theft and the fight against terrorism – which seems particularly strange. Minister, beyond putting the issue on the agenda at the College of Attorneys General, what steps are you going to take to put an end to these disproportionate, unnecessary, vexatious interrogations and to the systematic nature of the audit of the Public Prosecutor's Office in these procedures that were thought to be soothing and therefore swift by the legislator? What message from the government was delivered at the meeting of the college in question last Friday? Could you explain to me how the entry in the national register of transgender persons is organised? Is every effort made to ensure that the possible former national registry number is somehow linked to the possible new number, in order to keep track of this development, if a judicial investigation is required later? Could you reassure us that a change of sex or gender obviously does not cancel a possible criminal record?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u39	Minister, recently, several associations have complained of abusive controls in the context of gender change procedures. Thus, while - as you said recently - the Public Prosecutor's Office does not have to intervene systematically, it seems that this is the case in several Walloon judicial districts. Those who wish to change their sex and who have started the procedure with the civil registry, are therefore systematically summoned to answer questions that are often of the order of the intimate. These summonses seem to be motivated by fears about identity theft. However, foreign examples show that no one has ever used this procedure as a means of fraud. The associations believe that in doing so, the King's prosecutors go beyond their prerogatives and that they "must be trained in these questions because they have no idea what a transgender person is." Minister, you have repeated it many times, the law is clear. Do you confirm that such systematic controls are taking place in certain boroughs? What is your opinion on this? It came back to me that the subject had recently been brought to the agenda of the College of Attorneys General. Has that been the case? If so, what has emerged?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u40	The aim announced by the legislator was, in fact, the relaxation of the existing gender change procedure. The legislator has thus provided that the Public Prosecutor's Office may deliver an opinion within three months. Beyond this deadline, the absence of an opinion will be regarded as a favourable opinion. As in any matter affecting the state of the person, it is for the Public Prosecutor's Office to intervene when public order so requires, as provided for in Article 138bis, §1 of the Judicial Code. Article 62 of the Civil Code merely transposes this principle into the procedure for amending the registration of sex. The travaux préparatoires to the circular of 15 December 2017 on this law give indications as to the extent of the supervisory powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office in this area. As stated in this circular, simply having a criminal record is not enough to give a negative opinion. This opinion must be based on other elements. Therefore, a police hearing at the request of the King's prosecutor can only take place when there are indications of annoyance with public order and therefore cannot be systematic. If there is an audition, it must be done with respect for the transgender person. Although the right to privacy may be limited by public policy considerations, this infringement must remain proportionate, as the European Court of Human Rights has stated on numerous occasions. I further clarified this issue during the consultation with the College of Attorneys General last Friday. Like you, I have been informed of practices in the provinces of Liège and Hainaut by transgender organisations and by a few citizens. My administration does not have figures on the number of people who would have been affected by such practices. With regard to the measures, I would like to point out that the College of Attorneys General is competent to issue directives on matters on which the advice was given, not the Minister of Justice or the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. It concerns, inter alia, the actions brought under the Law of 10 May 2007 on combating certain forms of discrimination and on adapting the registration of the sex of a person in its instrument of birth, paragraphs 12 and 17 respectively of the Law of 10 May 2007. Those guidelines shall be binding on all members of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Attorney General at the courts of appeal is responsible for the implementation of the directives within their jurisdiction. The network of expertise in civil matters of the College of Attorneys General has been mandated by the College to review the implementation of this new legislation. The College will decide, on the basis of this review, whether a circular should be sent in order to supervise the practices of the various prosecutors' offices and the police services in this field. In any event, the prosecutors of the King of Liège and Mons have already informed me that they will amend their own directives in this area. I have no knowledge of the practices of other jurisdictions. According to the information provided to me by the Internal FPS, the change in sex registration results in the assignment of a new national registry number. The previous national registry number shall be cancelled. The entries TI 002 and TI 250 in the national register of the person do, however, make the link between the cancelled file and the new file, which will allow the authorities to keep track of the previous file. For further information on this point, I invite you to address my colleague from the Interior, who is in charge of the national register. Finally, a change of sex does not result in the removal of a possible criminal record. If a person with a criminal record changes gender, the identity data are automatically updated and the gender change is recorded directly in the central criminal record. In fact, the CJCS-CG application of the central criminal record receives daily transfers, i.e. changes to the national register of natural persons. These transfers include changes in surname, first name and gender. Changes in national numbers are also taken into account. The old identities remain stored in the central criminal record records. It is therefore always possible to find an identity in the latter, even if it was subsequently changed. There are currently 242 persons in the central criminal record for whom a gender change has been recorded.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u41	Minister, thank you for your clarification. Therefore, there is no danger at all, nor is there any practical, safe or political reason to conduct these extremely intrusive investigations since the data are retained when you switch from one national number to another and the criminal record is not cancelled. It is therefore up to the public prosecutor to be much more flexible. The Public Prosecutor's Office has clearly exceeded its rights, in any case in Liège. I am therefore pleased to learn that he has been "recognised" by the prosecutors. So maybe you won't have to take any further steps. In any case, you were clear in your answer: the law was intended to simplify and facilitate an approach that is not obvious. Let us hope that the judicial districts concerned are informed of the exchange we have just had.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u42	Minister, I am also very pleased with your answer, which sets things straight. I am pleased that the meeting took place with the College of Attorneys General and went in the direction that seems most logical to us, and that is also yours. Personally, I would like to have a circular to clarify things, especially since this is a new subject for many people involved in these changes. You mentioned the number of 242 changes to the central file. Since when? Since January?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u43	I'll send you an e-mail if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u44	All right. That's very nice of you. Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-07-54-commissie-ic836x.u45	This concludes our first part of the afternoon. We will resume our work when the majority is in number, which is not the case at the moment.
