ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u2	Mr Van Hees, to be quite clear, the Rules of Procedure state that individual and personal cases cannot be debated. I ask you to pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u3	Prime Minister, there's a case you care about. This is the national investment pact. You have set up a strategic committee, comprising six employers, whose aim is to support this pact. I do not know what criterion is used to be a member of this committee. Obviously, you have to be a boss. Somewhere, this reinforces your choice of government, very much in line with employers' expectations. This Tuesday, Le Soir and De Tijd reveal a new big tax scandal: the LuxFiles, a large-scale fraud involving the richest Belgians. Mailbox companies in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are often a relay to other tax havens. Different names come out of these LuxFiles. Michèle Sioen, former president of the FEB, 36th Belgian fortune, 393 million euros, is part of this strategic committee, of the six bosses that you have entrusted to support the pact. Three hundred nonante-three million euros. A worker who saves 200 euros per month should do so for 163,000 years to obtain such a sum. In addition, he has to pay personal tax, VAT, excise duties, property discount, registration duties, inheritance duties. A rich boss, she, not only has huge capital, but also takes advantage of the dubious techniques of the rich to escape tax, including the use of tax havens. Prime Minister, I have only one question. Do you think that a person who puts in place tax evasion structures to avoid contributing to tax in Belgium still has a place in a public body normally responsible for defending the general interest?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, my question is a little different from that of my predecessor. The investment pact is important. It provides for 60 billion for enabling sectors such as mobility, energy transition, the digital agenda or state infrastructure. These are important areas. There is a clear need to take the time to properly identify needs. To do this, you have set up this steering committee. I therefore come to my concerns. We can see in this steering committee a certain linguistic imbalance, but we also have some concerns about its composition, which is a little like the current social concertation because, as my colleague has said to me, it is almost exclusively bosses. There are no representatives of workers, nor of the non-market sector, nor of university representatives. However, in order for this plan to best reflect the realities, it was necessary to bring together a large panel around the table to clearly identify the projects. Prime Minister, how did you identify the composition of this working group? How did you make the decision about its composition? Why not have a wider involvement of workers, universities and the non-market sector? We will pay attention to the results of this working group. It is vital for us to know how this committee works and how it is designated. I would also like to know the decisions taken for the projects selected under this investment plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issues relating to the investment pact have been widely debated in the parliamentary committee on several occasions, and I am very pleased to do so in a rather consensual way. This shows that there is a common ambition to relaunch a strong investment strategy in key sectors. Together with the government, we wanted to set up a strategic committee with personalities, some of whom came from the private sector. It's not just the strategic committee. Many thematic working groups have also been activated, not by a government decision, but by a decision of the strategic committee. The ambition is that, in the coming weeks, recommendations can be made which, we hope, must reinforce a number of reasonings in relation to key sectors, mobility, the digital agenda, the energy transition, etc. An initial indicative list of projects has been developed. It will still have to be fine-tuned, specified. But above all, yesterday, in the Conciliation Committee, a formal decision was taken in due form. It aims to identify a common position within the framework of the budgetary strategy that we will defend at the start of the European Union in order to have a stable margin of flexibility, to give real capacity to the federal and regional governments to activate this investment strategy. I am indeed optimistic about the work done with increasingly visible results on this subject. I now turn to the individual question put by Mr. Van Hees. I have informed myself through the press as one person on the committee is concerned about the facts in question. According to the information I receive, this is information that is absolutely not secret, confidential. It has been included in the company's annual report for several years. This is the result of the acquisition by that company of a Dutch company. The stakes and the purpose are to liquidate the company in question, which is located abroad. This must be done from the moment that the real estate assets of this company can be realized. That's the situation. It is a demonstration, Mr Van Hees, that behind your extreme populism and your demagogy, you who hate entrepreneurs, small, medium and large, there are entrepreneurs in this country, men, women who mobilize to invest, innovate, create, create jobs and finance social protections.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u6	Prime Minister, first of all, I congratulate you on calling me a populist because it is the joker you use when you are in trouble on a file. For the rest, you tell us that the strategic committee is not the only committee. Other thematic committees are established. But who chooses them? It's the strategic committee, that is, the bosses! If I understand correctly, it is the bosses who govern in this country today. Not only are there only bosses, but they also designate others. Concerning Michèle Sioen, a case about which you claim that he is not secret, he nevertheless made the scoop of two newspapers, Le Soir and De Tijd. For non-secret information, it's pretty amazing! And as for the fact that it would pass in the future to the Netherlands does not change the problem since the Netherlands is known as Luxembourg to be a tax haven. All this makes it clear, Prime Minister, that your government not only gives the bosses the prerogatives to decide instead of Parliament, but also gives the bosses (the richest) even more gifts and even more...Your whole policy is just a gift policy! After giving all these gifts, even the tax that everyone owes in this country, the richest must not pay it. You just cover them because they're the richest. This is detestable, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would also like to thank you for your answer. Far be it from me to question the purpose of the strategic plan because I think it is indeed necessary. Nevertheless, its success will be guaranteed according to the choices that will be made, and these must be made according to the real needs. To do this, I tell you again because it is our regret, you have addressed yourself only to this boss bench. That is why I reiterate the request I made in my question that I wish you to really open this strategic committee and to have much wider consultation. I repeat: I am thinking of workers' representatives, universities and the non-market sector. It seems to me that the success of the plan will also depend on the support it will receive from these sectors. I ask you to review your copy on this. In addition, involving the Regions is of the utmost importance. And as you yourself have pointed out, its success will also depend on Europe's response, because this important issue will have to be brought before the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, I wonder what is going on with your government. Do you and the government remember that there is a Chamber of Representatives? After all, last week I heard you explaining measures relating to budgetary control. On your web site you can find a PowerPoint with fifteen slides, party devices communicate in full and it rains tweets and prayer cards, but there is no time to explain this in the Chamber. And that's not the only file. The hearings with the army summit cannot take place now, but after Easter, so when will it be convenient for you? Well, that's what I call figs after Easter. I'm also thinking about Prince Laurent's file. You give each group two minutes, one hundred and twenty seconds, speaking time to intervene. In my view, that is silence for a lot of Members of this House. I feel like the government will only come here when it suits her. It is no longer the Chamber that controls the government, but the government that dominates the Chamber. We can no longer talk about democracy, because it has become a participation. At least people used to pretend that Parliament was important, but even before that they didn't bother anymore. Professor Dewachter describes Belgian participation in his 2014 book and simply calls it a European disgrace. I agree with him on that. Prime Minister, there has been a serious increase in participation during your government. Indeed, the government decides, and Parliament follows. The fact that there is not even an explanation for budgetary control is a serious low point. The Chamber carries the powerlessness in it. Members of the majority are going to be there for bacon and beans. Prime Minister, I would like to know from you how you intend to improve the relationship with Parliament and whether we will have any further explanations on budgetary control.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, you are asking a curious question today. On the one hand, there is your question and, on the other, there are the facts. Over the last three years, we have regularly demonstrated our strong political will to respect and cooperate with Parliament. I can give many examples of this. Following the Summer Agreement, after the recess, we took the initiative to hold a major debate in committee. In August there was the fipronil crisis and then we were fully available to Parliament. There are also many concrete examples of special committees and committees of inquiry. There have never been as many in the past as in this period. The attacks on 22 March were dealt with by a committee of inquiry. Panama Papers, Dieselgate, Optima, military purchases and sales and the follow-up of foreign missions are other topics dealt with in special committees. And I can give you many concrete examples. What is also new compared to the past is that I answered 67 percent of the questions in plenary. You quoted three examples, on which I can answer the following. Firstly, as far as the budgetary negotiations are concerned, tomorrow we will have to approve the formal notification in the Council of Ministers, after which it will be transferred to Parliament. Secondly, the decision on Prince Laurent is not a decision of the Council of Ministers. The organisation of the procedure in Parliament was a decision of the Conference of Presidents. Thirdly, as far as the Defense Department is concerned, an audit has been requested in this file. Once we know the results, there will be room for a rational, serene, constructive and intelligent debate in Parliament's competent committee. I therefore believe that we are clearly demonstrating our respect for Parliament. We shall therefore continue to work in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u10	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. What you said about the setting up of committees of inquiry and special committees is correct, but I would add that the result is similar. Such committees usually serve only to keep the majority occupied, so that they cannot interfere too much here. What is quite right, Prime Minister, is that you have to answer and deal with most of the questions and the dossiers yourself. Soon I'll have to find you behind those piles of files, because you're no longer seen. You'd better be just a minister, and I've told you that before. You say that you care about the Chamber, but I can only conclude that last week the media were more interesting than the Chamber. Without notifications you could explain to the media, but not to us. This government rules on Twitter, not in the Chamber. We have already thrown the big deal into the trash in the context of the budget balance. Dear Members of Parliament, perhaps you'd like to join us for bacon and beans. These are not my words, but the words of the chairman of the largest government party, who said that the Members of the Chamber are in the Chamber for bacon and beans. So, ladies and gentlemen, please do what we were elected to do. Please let us represent the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u11	Mr President, Minister, when I questioned you at the beginning of January in connection with a number of violent incidents involving highway parking transmigrants, you announced your action plan, including surveillance in those highway parkings. We are now three months away, but the problems are not really solved. On the contrary, the Bruges prosecutor Frank Demeester warned over the past few weeks that there has been another increase in the problems with transmigrants in highway parkings. Both the police and the police have already noticed in recent weeks that the transmigrants are becoming increasingly aggressive. What if sooner or later this aggression is wounded, seriously injured, maybe even causing deaths in the police or those security officers? This week, a security officer and a port worker in Zeebrugge were not hit with small stones, but with heavy cobblestones by four illegals who wanted to climb the fence. A few days before, two private guards were attacked at night in the freeway parking lot in Rotselaar by an entire group of illegals who smashed their car with sticks. Just before that attack there were a number of attempts and a number of burglaries on the highway parkings of Peutie, Heverlee and Everberg. That was probably a set-up to lure the surveillance away from the parking lots where the illegals have to get on the trucks. Those smugglers are therefore very well organized. Minister, how many of these well-organised gangs have been shut down since your action plan? How about a separate closed centre for transmigrants at sea ports? In 2016, 1.8 percent of the immigrants arrested were effectively returned, so drastic additional resources for return policy seem necessary to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Pas, you know that the Medusa action, the police action along the motorways in the context of transmigration, has been going on for two years. In the context of the problem of transmigration, we decided on 23 January to do so, and we instructed the police to do so through a fully integrated police action. This is a multidisciplinary approach together with the local and federal police, the railway police, the road police, the police, DVZ, customs and so on. These actions have resulted in the interception of 559 transit migrants over the last two months. On 13 February we started monitoring highway parking through the private surveillance companies. We have noticed that the use of dogs by the security guards in surveillance has a positive effect. In particular, it reduces aggressiveness. That's why we decided to increase the bet of the dogs. 44 days have passed since 13 February. In those 44 days, five incidents of aggressiveness occurred. Of course, that's five too many. In that context, many people were arrested. Three people were apprehended by the investigating judge. In addition, the local police of Bruges, in cooperation with the shipping police, also organises a number of actions, specifically in the port of Zeebrugge. This is mainly the case with incidents. It concerns the Eastpack action, an integrated action in cooperation with the railway police and the maritime police. There's also the Northpack action. Those are biweekly small-scale actions by the police zone. Then there are the night patrols. In the large-scale action we carried out a few days ago, no less than 172 people were intercepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u13	Minister, I have two points of reply. You say that the use of dogs is a good decision, because it reduces aggression. The police and the police are just saying that this is increasing aggression. The private guards who were attacked in Rotselaar last week did indeed have dogs with them. It didn't help with the aggression. Their car was beaten short and small. Fortunately, the fact that they had dogs with them has ensured the safety of their own person. You are talking about an integrated, multidisciplinary approach. However, there is a large Achilles heel. I am not impressed by the figures of the number of people interviewed when I know that only 1.8 percent of them are returned. Policemen, at the risk of their own security, are allowed to pick up as many transmigrants as they want, if they are allowed to just walk around afterwards, this mopping with the crane open. I did not get an answer to my question about that extra closed center at the seaport in Zeebrugge. It is precisely for the forced return that we need drastic resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u14	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, buying a house by e-mail is an attractive, inevitable process, but also a development that may be worrying. Deputy Prime Minister, the digitalisation of our society is in progress and it is not up to you to say so. No sector escapes, including real estate. The latest developments that make it possible to organise the auction in a more dematerialised way are there to remind us, as is the process of negotiation between buyer and seller which takes place very often by e-mail. Despite these new ways of doing things that evolve over time, legal uncertainty remains. In 2016, the Antwerp Court of Appeal handed down a ruling according to which an agreement reached by e-mail on the price of real estate had no legal value. The Court relied on an exception provided for in the contract for the sale of real property in contract law. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, following this judgment, you said a year ago that you wanted to adapt the legislation in order to recognise the validity of an agreement reached by electronic means. A year later, you spoke again to move forward. Would we be able to find out where you are in the legislative initiative? Which people have you consulted or are you going to consult? In concrete terms, what are the modalities that will surround this new way of doing things? What guarantees will ensure that the rights of our citizens are respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u15	Mr. Chair, Mr.Foret, a bill will be tabled tomorrow at the Council of Ministers' table to remove all obstacles to the conclusion of contracts by electronic means. In fact, in 2016 this Parliament had already approved what is known as the Digital Act, which gives an electronic document the same legal value as a paper document. Currently, the E-Commerce Act provides for an exception for certain specific categories, such as real estate. This exception generates sometimes somewhat different interpretations of the validity of electronic evidence, for example regarding price. As you mentioned, last year, the Antwerp Court of Appeal ruled that an agreement reached by e-mail regarding the price of real estate was not sufficient. This was an interpretation of the e-commerce law that was already 15 years old. In fact, the law does not prevent contracts concluded electronically. It only indicates that for certain categories, such as real estate, additional requirements are imposed, such as a signature on paper. Today, in practice, many electronic possibilities exist and allow solutions to these additional requirements. That's why we're going to change the law for all categories, including real estate. It is now considered that an agreement concluded by electronic means, by e-mail or even by SMS, provides sufficient guarantees. In fact, two elements must be distinguished: the first is the validity of the contract. Since this is a consensual purchase, there are no conditions. The second is the validity of the evidence, e.g. that of a fixed price. In this case, writing is required, and it is now said that electronic writing is sufficient. The concept of writing will be clarified in the bill. It is in line with the date, which is in the reform of the Civil Code, made by my colleague Koen Geens, which will also be submitted this week to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u16	Deputy Prime Minister, the sale or acquisition of a building is important in the lives of many Belgians. Our company is digitalizing, as you recalled. As politicians, we must accompany this transformation which affects all sectors, including the real estate sector, which must not suffer any exceptions in this regard. I am indeed counting on you to ensure this balance between ensuring that all the conditions required for a sale are met and integrating, in the most harmonious way possible, the new electronic means, to ensure that the daily life of our citizens is facilitated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u17	Mr. Chair, minister, the bill creating the occasional work at 500 euros a month, defied, is not a good text. All agree on this from the non-market sector to the voluntary sector, to SMEs and the self-employed. The COCOF Parliament has tabled a motion in conflict of interest and, as a positive thing, this concertation committee meeting has gone well, demonstrating that our federalism can work, if we consider that we are sitting around the table to meet the interests of all the citizens of our country. In addition, the representative of your firm has shown openness to amend certain provisions of this bill. Minister, on the basis of what process are you going to change this arrangement? Are you going to amend the bill or, after reading, are you going to ask Parliament to pass this bad bill before correcting it through a correcting act? Will you adapt/adopt provisions according to the different sectors requiring amendments to the text? If so, on the basis of what criteria? What will be changed on the basis of the information and feedback you received through this consultation meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u18	Mrs Gerkens, a good minister is a minister who listens to the citizens, who adapts his policy to the needs of society. If a regulation has been created on supplementary income, particularly associative work, it is above all because I am listening to the needs of the actors on the ground. It should be noted that the High Council of Volunteers has issued an opinion on the evaluation of the Law on the Rights of Volunteers, in which it insists on the need to provide for such a status. It was precisely as a result of that opinion that I drew up the statute in question. But obviously, some are surprised at the speed at which I have drawn up and presented this proposal to the government and Parliament, a thoughtful proposal, which has been coordinated with several actors in civil society. Now I see that there are oppositions as well as a procedure. And as part of the consultation with the Regions, in 2017, I already said that I was open to any suggestions for possible adaptations. As evidence, these few proposals were then put forward by the Flemish Government in the form of amendments that were voted in the bill. I have also asked the other Parliaments to give me concrete texts. So far, it's radio silence. So I ask them again. Make me concrete proposals and we will see what we can do with them instead of saying anything and not putting anything on paper!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u19	Minister, the debate in Parliament is good! On the one hand, you are integrating the fact that we need to listen to citizens and actors to meet their needs and make the right arrangements. I do believe that this is the best attitude, but this government still has a lot of work to do and work to do. You did not answer my question about how you will adapt the text. I read in the press that there would be a correct law. If that is the case, you will agree that this is not a clear or transparent mechanism for the actors and persons concerned. On the other hand, we cannot ask a Parliament, which is trying to have good texts and to make good arrangements, to agree to work on a bad text, and to make it believe that it will subsequently be amended. If we change the devices, we have to do it now. As you want to do, you have to organise a listening and a meeting with all the actors while identifying the criteria that are appropriate and suitable for everyone. I mean, I'll make one last point. No one asked for the bill you laid! Only the sports sector has asked, in this way relayed by all the volunteers, to adapt and improve the arrangements of the volunteers in progress. The others didn't ask for anything and none asked for the project you put on the table. A good measure would be to meet the demands of the sport sector in an appropriate manner and then to think about provisions that meet the interests of all. But there is no need to go for a bad text that will have to be corrected afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u20	In the meantime, Minister, everyone agrees that the large number of long-term sick people, which is continuing to rise, is one of our main socio-economic problems. That is why it is also a priority in the coalition agreement. That is why you also introduced the concept of the labour reintegration plan for everyone some time ago. First of all, this is important for the sick themselves. They will gain more purchasing power if they are re-employed. It is important for the employers who are looking for talents in our tight labour market and it is very important for social security to help people out of these benefits. So everyone wins. I therefore find it incomprehensible and totally unacceptable that the largest trade union in our country should explicitly call on its members to boycott the reintegration plans and not to present themselves to the employer if they are called upon, because I quote: 'it is not mandatory, and that cooperation does not play a role in the decision of the counsellor on the right to sickness benefit'. So that advice comes from the same organization that screams murder and fire when we talk about accountability and who claims high and low that it is nonsense that people would not participate in their re-integration process. That is unacceptable, hence my questions. What do you think of the union's advice to its members? When will the response measures that have long been agreed within the government finally be implemented? I do agree, however, that the methodology of the reintegration plan should be adjusted. When will that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u21	Madam Secretary, the government has implemented numerous reforms to get more people working. I refer to your package of measures to reduce employers' contributions and to the flexibility of the labour market. Today we see the highest number of jobs and the highest employment in our country in decades. Unemployment is falling and the number of bridge-retired people is falling, but the phenomenon of the long-term sick is worrying us. After all, there are now more than 400 000 long-term sick people. You are the prime minister who has come to Parliament with a plan to get people back to work through reintegration pathways. The results are gradually visible on the ground. The change has started, and more importantly, many more long-term sick people are getting back to work. That's good for those people because they're back on the job floor, regaining confidence and having social contact again. However, there is one organisation that sees this as completely different, Madam Minister, an organisation that prefers to keep long-term sick people in their social isolation. That organization is the ACV. The ACV also makes it fiscally brown, as we will hear in some oral questions from colleagues this afternoon. Well, in his magazine Vision, the ACV shows very little vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u22	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u23	Mr Verherstraeten, I read Vision as I read Church & Life, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u24	In Kortrijk it has to be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u25	Evident, we live in a good Catholic province. Together with me, Mr Verherstraeten, you read in Vision that the ACV long-term calls on sick people to stay away from the labour doctor. In this way, the union is actually blocking the way back to work, a path which people should necessarily take. Colleagues, whether or not that call is legal, I leave it in the middle. However, it is clear that this attitude is not very constructive, Mr Verherstraeten, member of the ACV. Can I put it a little stronger? Sick people who are willing to go back to work will be boycotted. That is, of course, unacceptable. (Rumbling and protesting) Colleagues, I know it sounds harsh, but it shouldn't have happened. The truth always hurts. Madam Secretary, what do you think of the attitude of the ACV? What concrete results can you present with this government in terms of reintegration and resumption of work?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u26	Mr President, Mr Spooren, Mr Van Quickenborne, the reintegration of long-term ill is indeed an important reform. It is actually also a reform in the interests of the long-term sick themselves. After all, people are given the opportunity to do adapted work and thus to become active again. This reform also depends to a large extent on the positive cooperation of all parties concerned. I am therefore surprised at the communication of workers' representatives who should think well with the workers. I am not a member of the ACV which will not surprise you, and I have not read the Vision magazine, but it is true that the article shows little vision of reintegration. I think that workers are given bad advice. After all, it is precisely the employer who can give appropriate work to those concerned and put them back on track. Until the beginning of this year, the number of people on such a route has increased to 47 500. In this context, I would like to thank that magazine for many positive reactions from large companies, large employers, who say that we should have taken this measure a long time ago in our country. I quote Professor Godderis, an expert on the subject: Add two words in the title. Don't go late to the work doctor, go in time to see if anything can be done about your work situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u27	Madam Minister, I believe that we agree on the substance, but I have not received any answers to my questions when the response will be introduced and when you will revise the methodology. As far as the methodology is concerned, I think we should avoid that people should first be written off by their current employer before looking at opportunities with another employer. We have long argued for a different approach. I believe that it is not too late to update this point in the labour reintegration plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u28	Madam Secretary, thank you for your clear answer. We know you so well: the minister of the people, for the people, with clear answers. You're surprised, colleagues? But the trend is reversed. Almost 50 000 people have resumed a process of progressive work. Thanks to the reform of the minister! The ACV would better take an example of those many employers, including in the retail sector, who got more than 400 people back to work in one company last year thanks to this new trajectory. In short, Madam Minister, keep up the good work! Do not be distracted by the maneuvers and make sure that more people can get back to work. That's what we want.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u29	Colleagues, because it is the last meeting for the Easter holiday and also White Thursday, I give the floor to Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u30	Mr President, Mr Van Quickenborne felt it necessary to mention me a few times. I hear he's reading Church & Life. So I shouldn't wave that. I would like to assume that Mrs De Block is the minister of the people, but let us be very clear about the position of the Flemish Christian Democrats on sick people. If we can get them to work, we must get them to work, but with correct information. You spoke of a boycott. There's nothing written about that here. It says here it's about rights. [[Mr Verherstraeten swings with the weekly Vision]] She may be the minister of the people, but you are the representative of the people!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u31	Mr President, Minister, a serious fact: 17 000 women live in Belgium with genital mutilation. More than eight thousand girls are at risk of being circumcised. These are the alarming figures published earlier this month by the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. The shocking fact this week was that female circumcisions are also carried out in Belgium by doctors. More than that, certain circumcisions are apparently even repaid by the RIZIV. In fact, this is unacceptable. Genital mutilation is a serious human rights violation. It's about sexual assault. Internationally, it is catalogued as torture. Doctors are making themselves complicit in this torture. Let's get a cliché out of the way. It doesn't happen in shady backrooms. It also happens in doctor's skabinets. The explanation for it is that it is happening and that it can therefore be better done under hygienic conditions. In fact, this is not acceptable. This is cultural relativism. This is a medicalisation of practice, and that is criminal. Let's be very clear. There is no circumcision "light." There's no such thing as a little torture. In this way, we are releasing those who support it and making it globally acceptable. That is unacceptable. No cultural, traditional or religious reason makes us take away the sexual experience of women and make them a horror to keep them true to the man. This is prehistoric in practice. I believe that we all agree on this. Madam Secretary, I believe that we must fight this battle together. I myself tabled a bill to extend the doctor's right to speak and to include it in the medical record. We must put a stop to this medalisation of practice. We must ensure that the complaints get to the Order of Doctors and that they are investigated. You also indicated yourself that you will have an investigation conducted into those facts. My questions are as follows. In what way will you conduct that investigation? When will we know the results of that investigation? In what way will you make it clear to the doctors that this is about a crime? Are you also going to make it clear to them that they can talk about it through the entered code?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u32	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, you mentioned that female genital mutilation is a terrible and barbaric practice. It is unacceptable that it should be applied in our country, especially by doctors. No doctor shall cooperate in such an attack on the physical and psychological integrity of a person, of a woman. It is indeed a crime with severe penalties. This is stated in Article 409 of the Criminal Code: "Punish anyone who performs, facilitates or promotes female genital mutilation, and even with aggravating circumstances in the case of a minor'. I must add that the questions you are asking are based on rumours. I have therefore asked the RIZIV for an investigation, but the RIZIV would also like cases to be given a name and place. Rumors are a difficult source of research. We've made inquiries. At present, we have no evidence of such mutilation happening in our country. The organisations in the field with which we work closely, such as GAMS, also have no knowledge that this practice exists in Belgium. If it were to be prevented, we would not hesitate to go to the court and file a complaint when we have the evidence, which we will of course also do with the Order of Doctors. I have already said that we must all work together on the problem. There are initiatives to increase the role of doctors in prevention and by extending the right to speak to healthcare providers. It is also possible to introduce better registration in hospitals when such mutilation is established. In addition, there is the code with the Order of Doctors. We have therefore supported training in hospitals on sexual violence in general and female mutilation in particular. In 2018, together with GAMS, we will also organise a awareness campaign aimed at healthcare providers. You know that through the RIZIV we also support two accredited centres, namely C'est ma vie in the Sint-Pieters Hospital and the Women's Clinic in the UZ Gent. There too, there is no knowledge that genital mutilation would happen in Belgium. Within my powers I will therefore do everything I can to eradicate genital mutilation, if it existed. I repeat, however, that until now we have only heard rumours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u33	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer and your fighting skills on this issue. Those rumors have been around for a long time. I have been working on this theme for a long time and I have also heard in Flanders that it is happening. However, a complaint should be made by the victims. Because they are very young, it is obviously very difficult to trace this. However, we must make every effort to prevent, protect and, if necessary, also prosecute doctors. Every ten seconds, somewhere in the world, a girl is genitally mutilated. The consequences on the physical, psychological and sexual level are very serious. We all need to know that very well. There's been a break of faith with the family at the time. It must not be the case that there is also a new breach of trust with the doctors. So let's put a stop to that and say stop FGM, stop genital mutilation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u34	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government is considering a solution to the difficult professions. You would have submitted a note to the nuclear cabinet with a number of slopes in that regard. We all know that longer work is part of the solution, but that this cannot be demanded from people who work hard. Four years ago, the retirement age was raised, but it was not provided at the same time and in parallel with a solution for people with heavy occupations. Ecolo-Green has always regretted this. We didn't think that was a logical choice. We also know that it is better to make heavy careers less difficult during the career itself. That is still better than having to retire people with a heavy occupation at the end of the journey. For people who work effectively for years in a heavy occupation, there must be a solution that does not require them to continue working for, for example, 67 years. I hope there is a consensus that this is not realistic. There would be a solution for the physically difficult professions, but what about the people in a profession with an excessive mental, emotional burden? You have said that an effective solution must be found for teachers, but how will you reconcile this with the regime where excessive stress does not count as a full factor according to the government's plans? That is the question I would like to ask you. For those who saw Pano's reportage yesterday: copy them, the kindergarten teachers or teachers standing in front of an overcrowded class in primary education. Or just stand in the care, be a mentor in an institution of special youth care. It is very important that the government realizes that there must be a solution for those people. In fact, it would be logical for every year to count in a heavy occupation and to take this into account when determining the retirement age. The government now wants to set the bar at five years, so it would only start to count from five hard career years. That doesn't make sense, because one tough career year has an immediate impact on people's health and well-being. That must therefore be taken into account. Others would like to go even further and only start from ten hard career years. I'm coming to the others. Mr Minister, it is clear that two parties are on the brakes here, namely N-VA and Open Vld. I hope that all people at home are very well aware that these two parties do not want human regulation for those who exercise a heavy occupation, such as teachers or caregivers. I would ask you not to be distracted by those conservative forces, but to work on a human scheme that takes account of the gravity of each profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u35	Mr. Minister of Pensions, we're wondering when you're going to land with your arduous trades file. We have spoken regularly in Parliament about the continuation of this matter. It seems that, in a Kern, you submitted a proposal to try to get this dossier out of the immobilism in which it is located. You propose that those who could be recognized as having a heavy job and who would be ill for more than 21 days would not see their days, beyond those 21 days, recognized as a difficult job. Mr Minister, you therefore propose that in our profit-based society, people who are the sickest, especially because of their work, should work longer. In a more humane logic, in the logic of a society where equality would be more important, I want to say, we would do the opposite. People who would be the sickest and most fragile could leave sooner. With you, it's the opposite! You're sick so you work longer! This reasoning has real repercussions in real life, Minister! You may live in your bubble, but I've received a lot of testimony. I'd like to read you one today. What are you going to answer to this lady who works in the service titles? She works hard and accumulates hours. She cleans people's homes. She often hurts her back and wrists by cleaning up. She has osteoarthritis and because of this, she finds herself on sick leave for three and a half months. His job is probably going to be recognized as a difficult job. I'm asking you the question, minister. In your proposal today, will this lady have to work longer than a person who would not have been ill?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u36	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u37	You're kidding! You're making fun of her because you're saying she needs a good doctor. You're making fun of her! "A good doctor," that's what a liberal minister answers! What a contempt for the world of work! Look at this! I'm talking about a lady who has three and a half months of sick leave because she works hard and sir says she only needs to look for a good doctor! It's shameful! It's a shame! It's an ideological point of view! Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking the question very concretely. Will this woman who has three and a half months of sick leave have to work longer than the woman who has the same job and who has not been ill? Yes or no, does she have to work longer? Did you submit the proposal to Kern that after 21 days of illness, the following days would no longer be recognized as a difficult job? I look forward to hearing your Liberal response, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u38	Mr President, I am obviously used to the demagogy of Mr Hedebouw, who is the champion of populism. If not more...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u39	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u40	Mr. Hedebouw, please let the minister answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u41	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u42	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u43	But no, but no. Let's not talk about this. Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the government discussions on this dossier are currently taking place, you will no doubt understand that I will not comment. In such a dossier, it is very important for me to be able to continue the talks in complete serenity. These talks are constructive, by the way. I will not fail to inform you later on about this file. I would like to make it clear that I have already answered the questions asked to me on a number of occasions today. I refer you to the government agreement and the general policy notes, which obviously specify how we envisage the solutions to be found in terms of penitibility. It is a question of allowing people who have worked hard and are working hard to retire earlier or - if they choose to continue their careers - to benefit from a higher pension. We are therefore working towards a reward for work. I will not keep repeating myself on this point, but I am of course committed, as soon as a solution has been drawn up, to come and explain it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u45	Minister, you cannot or do not want to answer our questions, but what you could do is show respect for people who work hard, and you failed to do so today. The increase in retirement age is in full swing and is also applicable to current workers. As far as the government's plans are concerned, I would like to warn you about the following. Surely it cannot be the intention that only the heavy career years from 2019 should be charged? Think, for example, of the teacher who has been standing in front of an overcrowded class in primary education for 15 years. This would logically have to be recognised as a heavy work environment, but according to the plans before us, this would not be the case because the years worked in the past would not count. Ensure a just settlement, Minister. I have the impression that the regulation on the heavy professions is becoming a debate on savings for some people. I look again in the direction of N-VA and Open Vld. For us, it is a debate on a human pension reform. That is the great difference between our parties, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u46	Minister, of course you have not answered my specific question at all. Today, a note appeared in the press on which you have been working. Have you proposed that, for persons who are ill for more than 21 days, the days on top of that should no longer be recognised in relation to the criteria for a heavy occupation? This is a specific and technical question. You simply replied that nothing was decided. Well, it's up to the people to know. I also ask Open Vld: is this proposal on the table? If so, how do you feel about that? It would be good to have that debate. Ladies and gentlemen, if the proposal is on the table with regard to those 21 days, then it means that a person who is ill for four months because of the work is being punished twice. That will be decided here today. That is the compromise on the table. Are you okay with that? Do you agree that people who are sick from working will just have to work longer? In my view of society, in the solidarity society I want to go to, people who are sick must work just less long, precisely because they are sick. And not the opposite, namely that one has to work even longer because one is sick. That is why I hope that there will be a lot of people on 16 May, during the trade unions' action, to say clearly to this government that it will be allowed to take a step backwards. On May 16, go to the trade union protest against this government and against the pension laws!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u47	Mr President, Minister, the Panama Papers Committee delivered its report about five months ago. My group had been forced to vote against this text, as the majority had imposed a soft approach to the fight against international tax fraud. As a reminder, however, this commission had been set up following numerous scandals: LuxLeaks, OffshoreLeaks, SwissLeaks. Five months after the recommendations were tabled, a new scandal – involving many Belgians – is on the horizon. Again, thanks to the work of a consortium of journalists, we have learned that tens of billions of euros of Belgian citizens are hidden in Luxembourg mailboxes. Our neighbour therefore continues to facilitate the tax evasion of several of our compatriots. This is obviously unacceptable. Minister, five months after the recommendations of the report were presented, why do we not see any text tabled by the government that is inspired by it? Have you set up a working group? Have you made any progress in drafting texts? Why do you always focus on minimum standards at the international level, without displaying real ambition? Finally, with regard to the Luxembourg mailbox scandal in particular, what answer are you going to give? What will the ISI's attitude be?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u48	Minister, it continues to rain scandals: after LuxLeaks, SwissLeaks, Panama Papers and Paradise Papers, Lux Files is up. Of course, many companies are again involved in setting up a post office bus construction via Luxembourg in order to exploit tax advantages in this way. On the list that appeared, however, was a remarkable guest, namely ACV Metea, who founded a fund for microfinance in 2010. Let there be no doubt about it: a microfinance fund is, of course, a very commendable initiative to support economic development in developing countries. The most remarkable thing, however, was that this was done through a construction, in the sense that the financing did not go from Belgium to the countries where this microfinance took place, but with a transit, first via a post-box company in Luxembourg and then to a post-bus construction in Mauritius, coincidentally countries where tax-friendly regimes exist. In both cases, it is clearly a matter of mailbox addresses. ACV Metea itself states in the annual accounts that it does so in order to benefit from tax advantages. It is very strange that the ACV is working on this. The ACV rightly insists on fiscal justice and on closing all tax loopholes. In the same newspaper, it even advertises the message that the list of heavy-duty professions should be expanded and financed by stepping up the fight against tax havens. On the next page, however, it says that the ACV itself is involved in such a construction. I only have one word for that: this is hypocritical. The ACV's answer is bad. I quote: 'The choice for Luxembourg is not a tax choice. Although the fund is managed from our country and the address and bank in Luxembourg, we do not speak of a PO Box company." A few days before Easter one might best inform that gullible ACV that the Easter Bunny doesn't exist either. I have three specific questions, Minister. Does the BBI intend to launch an investigation into the tax constructions? Do you know any income from these constructions that have not been declared? What measures have been taken in the field of budgetary control to step up the fight against tax fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u49	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday De Tijd announced that ACV Metea, part of the movement.net, is investing millions of euros via Luxembourg in the paradise island of Mauritius. Yesterday, I sent a press release to say that I find that particularly disgusting. The revelations that have emerged prove the enormous hypocrisy of the ACV: to make all kinds of ethically high statements and at the same time betray those beautiful principles. Trade unions, including the ACV, have an important role to play in our society; this must also be emphasised and we recognise this task. The unions also have a powerful position at the same time. They are part of hundreds of institutions and committees, such as the National Bank, the Joint Committees, the National Labour Council and even labour courts and courts. The trade unions have a monopoly on the nomination of candidates for social elections. They are part of the well-known socialist and Christian pillars and therefore directly influence politics in our country. In addition, they manage social security together with employers, which is a very great responsibility and involves a great deal of money. They conclude collective agreements and collect in their sectors sums of money jointly managed under the security of existence funds. However, there is no democratic legitimacy against all the power of the trade unions. Trade unions have no legal personality. Their leaders are not democratically elected. Why should trade unions not set an example from this position of power? They have been driving around the country like white knights for years to hunt down possible tax fraud by entrepreneurs, but they may themselves be guilty of it. Can we trust, Minister, that your services are acting in the same strict manner with regard to the ACV, as the ACV itself has been demanding from you for many years that they be strict with regard to large companies and large assets?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u50	Mr President, Minister, this is the umpteenth time that various groups in this Chamber have expressed great indignation when another leak comes up and is published. This indignation is mostly Chamber-wide, but I have to say today that some people are very selective in their indignation. In recent months, the first reports have been published in the press. We reacted immediately, expressed our indignation and put forward proposals. I didn't hear Open Vld and N-VA react until the ACV was mentioned, and then it was suddenly inadmissible. For sp.a it really doesn't matter whether those mailbox companies are now used by the ACV or by Fernand Huts. We don't care, they simply have to leave the world. That's what today is about. The question is whether this indignation is being turned into action today. We have had the Panama Commission. I know that some of them have been on the brakes all the time. They're in the front row. They are constantly on the brakes when it comes to a real approach to tax fraud. So the question is whether you want to take concrete action here. I believe that our legislation is far too lax. It must be made more stringent, in the sense that we must define very clearly when a company is actually engaged in an economic activity. That is the only way to distinguish between fake companies and real companies. Will you make proposals on this matter yourself, Minister, or will you support the proposals that our group will put forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the recent reports on mailbox companies in Luxembourg are concerned, you know that the international exchange of data has been running at full speed for some time now. This also applies, of course, to data from Luxembourg. In that sense, what we have read in the newspapers over the past few days contained not so many new elements for the tax authorities. The tax authorities can, of course, only start an investigation if a tax irregularity is detected. That's what's gonna happen. In doing so, it is very important to demonstrate where the real management of the company in question is in Luxembourg itself or elsewhere. This is an important task for the tax authorities, a task that has long been taken up and which has been kept meticulously. That, of course, transcends the Belgian dimension. If there are still European Member States today that actively facilitate post office bus constructions or other tax systems where the taxable base is skimmed, then this needs to be addressed at European level. We also actively support this at European level. This does not, of course, alter the fact that our own tax inspection also takes the necessary initiatives with regard to postal bus companies. That has been happening much longer than today or the beginning of this week. If there are indications that the real management is not in Luxembourg, the BBI seeks to qualify these companies as Belgian companies, with all the tax consequences. For this purpose, the BBI has a wide range of data and opportunities for action, such as the exchange of rulings, the notification of constructions by advisers, the UBO Registry, the Common Reporting Standard on financial information and the exchange of that information. In addition, the BBI and the tax authorities in general also carry out risk analysis and data mining. Colleagues, I have indeed heard with you that a trade union organisation also has activities in the sphere of Luxembourg's post-bus companies. I have asked my administration, as for the other cases, to look into this more closely. I am not speaking about it at the moment, but regardless of whether tax motives are involved or not, I find this a strange signal from an organisation that is constantly advocating transparency and justice, especially in tax matters. With regard to the specific questions relating to Panama Papers and the conclusions of the ad hoc committee, many recommendations have already been translated into concrete actions. Examples include: the establishment of the UBO register; compliance with the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) standards; the strengthening of the transparency tax (twice); the transposition of the DAC 5 directive; the strengthening of the central point of contact; country-by-country reporting for multinationals; and the possibility for the tax administration to become a civil party. However, that does not stop the work. Before the summer, I will present an additional package of measures in this area to the government. We continue to play a leading role in the field of fiscal transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u52	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. Today, following the questions that have been asked and your answer, I have a bit of a feeling that the majority is trying to divert the subject by targeting one of the tax fraud perpetrators. For us, it is all this inadmissible tax evasion that must be condemned, whether it is by a trade union organization, a large company, diamond dealers or any other person or company. This fraud endangers the principle of solidarity in our society. You are right, we must respond at European level, but then, Minister, why do you not support the issue more firmly at European level? Why don't you have the courage to defend these issues at European level? As part of the work of the committee and the recommendations, you have referred to a series of measures. But these measures are only European measures. At Belgian level, you have done almost nothing and your inaction on tax evasion costs our company billions! While some are girding on luxurious sailboats by checking their financial montages in Luxembourg, unfortunately, the Belgians are humming up and supporting austerity. We're increasing the electricity bill, we're imposing an index jump, and I'm passing it! Minister, you have decided to make the citizens pay rather than track down the big fraudsters. You show it, once again, by your inaction. It is a choice of government, for a much less just society, but it is not our vision of society.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u53	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are always asking for greater transparency for our citizens and for our companies. There's the Central Contact. There's gonna be a UBO registry. There is the Common Reporting Standard, to which the Minister referred. Some Members here in the hemisphere are even asking for the complete abolition of banking secrecy. Mr Laaouej, is it not high time that we asked the trade unions for the same transparency as we asked the citizens and companies? A very important step was taken when our bill on the caiman tax was also introduced for actual associations. The government took over the proposal. Parliament has supported it widely. We hope that we will finally be able to find the way to which, among other things, the ARCO investor's money has gone. We have already received one example from these traffic jams today, namely that the money has flowed through Luxembourg and Mauritius. However, there are of course many other slopes. I would like to make one point very clear. No matter who avoids or avoids taxes, the result is the same. For every euro of taxes that is being evaded or evaded, our families and our companies need to cough up an extra euro. That is why we continue to fight hard against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u54	Mr President, Minister, thank you for staying in the atmosphere with your transparent reply. Nevertheless, dark warhouses, ARCO-dumped people who remain in the cold, are sabotaging the reintegration of long-term sick and unethical fiscal constructions. I can't go on like this for much longer to harden the credibility of an important union in our society. I therefore wonder what is going on here and where the vision of the ACV is. Mr Verherstraeten, you have just waved your petal, Vision. Rather, it seems that the trade unions have lost their pedals and must be protected against themselves, not because this is in the interests of the trade unions, but because it is in the interests of the workers. I believe that the credibility of the trade unions can be strengthened if we work on a number of fundamental measures. In order to ensure transparency, there should be legal personality and an open accounting system. Then such constructions will be avoided. Secondly, with a view to democratisation, democratic elections must be held for the summit of trade unions and opportunities for non-silent trade unions. Thirdly, and finally, we must also intervene in the financing mechanism, by abolishing the reimbursement of the syndicated premiums.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u55	Mr President, the previous speaker rightly raises the question of what is going on here. I didn't hear him say anything about the shame of the P.O. Box companies. That's what's going on here! Minister, I have listened carefully to your reply. Actually, you're not going to do anything. You say that as long as we live in Europe, where certain Member States allow mailbox companies to thrive, nothing can be done about it. If you are convinced, Minister, the least you can do is to put on the table at the next Council meeting that we regard Luxembourg as a tax haven. That is the only way, if I follow you like this, to prevent postal bus companies and tax constructions via Luxembourg. That is what I expect from a Belgian government, which is what I expect from a finance minister who says he really wants to do something about international tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u56	Minister, the union organizations of public servants are concerned about the removal of the sick credit specific to their status, a reform that you will be presenting to the government tomorrow. According to the unions, you want to replace the current system with 30 days of guaranteed salary per year after which a sick officer will receive only 60 per cent of his salary. As you said in committee, this is in addition to your profound reform of the status of the official. Beyond your good intentions, it is his killing that is on the agenda. And you are simply hiding behind the failure of the redesignation of the public service. There was a need to find a new way to save money, and this time it is the seriously ill officials who will pay the price. Minister, do you confirm your willingness to remove the sickness credit to replace it with the mechanism I have just described? If you present the project to the government tomorrow, what will be the schedule for union negotiations? From a budgetary perspective, what are the government's expectations for this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u57	Ms.Ben Hamou, as part of the modernization of the public service, we are negotiating within the government a new statute for the public service. The existing regulations, dispersed in 25 texts, will be reformed to achieve a single centralized, simplified and readable text – called the Codex – for both statutory and contractual staff. This is not only a codification of the current statute but also a modernisation of it: for example, the extension of the principle of neutrality to contractual staff members, a full career for contract staff members with access to promotions – they now account for almost 25% of our staff, who have all too often been forgotten! I will mention the acceleration and improvement of the performance of recruitment procedures, the extension of the application of the skills acquired previously, the establishment of a global internal labour market with a view to greater mobility, the establishment of a career support system, the in-depth simplification of the evaluation system to make it more efficient and effective, and finally a reform of leave. It is in this context that the reform of the disease regulation is planned. We want a fair and equitable system for all. The planned system is to align the system with that applied in the private sector, which is already applicable for contractual staff, i.e. 25 per cent of our staff. The current system does not meet the social objective of helping staff to return to work as quickly as possible in a suitable job, because the longer the illness is, the more difficult it is to start working again. To this end, we are strongly engaged in a new reintegration process that does not exist today. For example, staff members can first recover at 40% while retaining 100% of their salary and gradually return full-time. The reform as a whole does not foresee any budgetary performance. The reform will, of course, be negotiated with the trade unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers, even if they are not at all reassuring. All I'm hearing is that the status of civil servants is being decoupled. Since you took office, you have always wanted to destroy the public service and its workers. Not all the decisions you make are made in consultation with the unions. According to your reform, an official who serves the state will not even have the right to be ill. I want to tell all the officials who listen to us that we are here to defend their rights. Minister, I want you to know that we will track down the least of your decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u59	Minister, after the fipronil crisis in August and the recent meat scandal, we are again here to denounce practices involving the BFSA. Last week we learned through the press that an ex-top man from the BFSA has been working as a consultant and lobbyist in the food sector for two years. Apparently, that's no exception. In the meantime, several other former inspectors of the BFSA also provide their services to the private sector. Minister, that raises many questions, questions about deontology, questions about the excessive interlinkage between the meat sector on the one hand and the control of the meat sector on the other. [[Rumur on the benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u60	Colleagues, I'm asking for a little respect. That you don't want to listen, okay, but that you make fun of people, I won't stand for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u61	Thank you, Mrs Kitir. It is at least remarkable that top officials, who gain knowledge with our tax money and carry out a controlling task in relation to our food, immediately after their mandate at the BFSA, simply throw away the knowledge acquired. The fact that the companies that like to see ex-workers come is self-evident. The former inspectors know the control system inside and outside. They know all the tricks of the foor. The fact that the BFSA sees no problem in this is, at least, remarkable, Minister. Their spokesman says, I quote: "The moment they leave the company, they are free to do whatever they want." That the spokesperson of the BFSA describes its own institution as a company frowning. Especially with the current crisis in the food industry, that raises a lot of questions, but the BFSA doesn't see anything like that. There one calls the consultancy assignments of former employees positive. We have to do it, mijnheer to minister. My questions are as follows. First of all, what is your response to these practices? Secondly, do you support the opinion of the Food Agency that such practices are positive? Thirdly, are the strict rules on debugging periods for researchers who were appointed by the European Food Agency last year respected here? Fourthly, you indicated earlier this week that you're analyzing the cases. Has that analysis been completed yet? What measures do you plan to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u62	Mrs Lambrecht, thank you for an important question. As you point out, the press tells us that Mr Naassens, former director-general of the BFSA ad interim, has been working as a consultant in the food and pharmaceutical sector for two years. Mr. Naassens would have set up his consultancy company after he retired. First of all, we must remember that, in the course of their duties, all officials are subject to very strict rules on conflicts of interest and cumulation. For example, they should not be advisors to companies that can be controlled during their career as civil servants. From a strictly legal point of view, consultancy missions, as Mr Naassens would carry out today, are in line with current legislation. The activities started after his retirement. However, I agree with you on one point. In certain cases, such situations may raise ethical and deontological questions across the board. In other words, does the question about a former member of the BFSA not also apply to other officials with audit missions who decide to work in the private sector after their career in the public sector? I'm thinking about staff from the BBI and the FANC. I have therefore contacted my colleague, the Minister for Civil Service, to make him aware of the issue. I have also asked him whether there can be no reflection on this issue. He confirmed to me that the question for all mandate holders in the federal government should be settled in a transversal manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u63	Minister, I am glad that you agree with me on one point, namely that such situations raise a lot of ethical questions. It may be argued that the problem is not being addressed now, because it occurs in many civil servants, but when working in this way, it does not progress. Minister, I propose that we start with the food agency and that the other can see it as an example. After all, we all feel that what is happening here is not deontologically correct. Young inspectors from the food agency meet their former bosses again during the checks. That creates a very nasty hierarchical conflict. We need very clear rules on this. We can look at what Europe has already imposed on us, e.g. five-year break-up periods. I look forward very much to your concrete actions. You have already shown that you are a man of action. You're not the man waiting for others. I very much hope that you will not wait here for regulations for other officials before you do anything about the food agency. Let us take the lead in this. After all, it's about our food. It's about what's on our plate. We can show civil servants in other sectors how to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u64	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on 6 March, I was already asking you about this matter in committee. Twenty days later, I learned from the press that nine asylum-seekers' centres would be closed, including one in Namur. I note that the fears I had raised at the time were well founded. I wonder why you did not, in a much clearer way, confirm the fears that were ours then. I would like to return to you, because the citizens of Namibia are mobilizing today to show you the great interest of having a reception centre such as this one in the territory of Namibia, where asylum seekers can actually participate in a series of activities carried out by the collective. This collective is mobilizing. He has also posted a petition which, I have just noted, is already collecting some 4,500 signatures in favour of maintaining this reception centre in Namur. Mr Secretary of State, what were the criteria that led to this decision to close the nine centres? What is the timing you have set yourself in this context? What about the rehousing of the people, the residents, who are now present in these different centres, especially that of Namur? What about the 35 employees who are now working in this Namibian centre and the 200 workers who are dedicated to the reception of these asylum seekers in the various centres? Finally, the Namibian collective made a proposal as to whether it could distribute these asylum-seekers more widely in the country. Could the centre of Belgrade remain open? Have you been able to read this proposal? What is your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u65	Mr. Secretary of State, with the announcement of the closure of nine reception centres, including the one in Namur, you may feel as if you had achieved a nice political coup. You pledge your electorate with the impression that you control migratory flows and that your policy is bearing fruit. You also look like the right student of the class in budgetary matters since, in the context of budgetary control, you allow the government to make some savings in your department. In my view, it is a bad blow to all the actors involved in the process of receiving and accompanying refugees. I'm not talking to you about the refugees themselves, about their families, about their children, who are going to be squashed from one centre to another. I don't think that's your primary concern. But I am talking to you about the citizens who have mobilized around this centre in Belgrade and around all the other centres that exist; about the citizens who have made these places of refuge real places of integration and who now have the impression that this work has been of no use. I am talking to you about the communal authorities, who have been confronted with the fait accompli without any prior consultation, without any information. I am also referring to the 35 workers in central Belgrade who feel that they have been temporary workers in kleenex jobs that can be thrown away since the urgency is no longer in order. And then, I also want to question you about the Red Cross, which you are going to ask to close 1,400 places and dismiss 200 people at the risk of messing with all the experience gained in these centres and at the risk of placing the Red Cross and putting us, collectively, in an inability to cope with the new migratory flows that will not fail to arise when the international context is the one we know. This bad blow is all the more hard felt by all these actors, as they had already been worried about the announcement of a closure at the start of a Defence communication, but they thought they could be reassured on the basis of your National Defence colleague's communication. These were short-lived. Why this turnaround and this brutal and unilateral announcement of this closure? What are the criteria used to determine which centres should be closed? Why not consider the softer alternative of an equitable reduction in the occupancy rate in all reception centres rather than the closure of some of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has in fact approved a new plan to reduce reception places for asylum seekers. The reception network now has 23,815 reception places. In the course of 2018, 2,800 places will be closed in the collective centres and 3,600 in the individual reception. These closures are necessary if we are to remain cost efficient. Over the past two years, more than 13,000 places have been abolished, but as a result of a relatively low flow of asylum seekers, there is already a new surplus of 7,000 places. 7,000 places are vacant today, when we have to pay for them. A reduction of seats is a top priority for the government. That's very logical. It is the same policy as that pursued by Mr Di Rupo's government. When there are lots of free places, we close places. The government has opted for a clear line. It was decided to close the centres which were established as emergency reception centres during the asylum crisis. The government has always made it clear that they are temporary. I always said they were temporary, both to the residents and to the staff. This is also the case in the centre of Belgrade. By closing the emergency centres, we will return to the situation before the asylum crisis. So we keep our word. We want to be consistent in our approach. Indeed, the centre of Belgrade is one of the centres concerned. In close cooperation with the Red Cross partner and Fedasil, possible measures to be taken will be examined to ensure that the move takes place in the best possible conditions and with a limited impact on residents. We're going to consult, that's the same answer I've already given before. With regard to the sale of the centre, it is important to recall that, when the Defence agreed to make the Belgrade site available during the asylum crisis, one of the conditions was that the occupation of the barracks by asylum seekers could not constitute an obstacle to a possible change of destination or sale. My firm and Fedasil had long been aware of the possible sale of the Belgrade site, but the project was under way. On 27 February, the Defense Office informed Fedasil and my firm that the sale of the Belgrade site had just been completed. Mrs Grovonius, I could not say more in committee, because the government had not yet made its decision. The green light came Friday night and I communicated on Monday about the centres that were about to close. They are scheduled to close in the second half of 2018. Discussions are under way in order to be able to do so under optimal conditions. For children who go to school, for example, it is important that the change takes place during the big holidays. We will communicate more about this as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u67	Secretary of State, here we are talking about human beings. These asylum seekers are not stocks of goods that can easily be moved from one hangar to another. These workers are not Kleenex that can be used and discarded. Nor are these asylum seekers a variable for budgetary adjustment. At least they shouldn't be. This asylum crisis is not ultimately a crisis. It is above all, and above all, a crisis of international and European acceptance with scandalous agreements with Turkey and Libya – I am passing and the best – and also on an intra-Belgian level, with a completely inhuman short-term policy of self-absorbing, of stigmatization where fears are stirred up. It is a policy that generates precisely the crises and conflicts that lead these men, women and children to flee their country at the risk of their lives. It is this policy that the PS condemns and we want to oppose, to this policy, a policy of solidarity which alone can enable lasting peace and security for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u68	Mr Secretary of State, in your reply you confirm that this decision is essentially a matter of budgetary considerations. I will tell you that, even more than the content of the decision, it is the method used that calls upon me. A few years ago, in my commune, a reception centre was closed. At the time, I remember having a phone call from Mrs De Block, who was the minister responsible and who wanted to warn me personally of this decision. It was a sign of respect. Here, no prior consultation with anyone and certainly not with the Red Cross! That's where I'm really shocked. The Red Cross is the first reception operator in this country. She has accumulated 30 years of experience. It works at a lower cost on the budget. It has demonstrated its efficiency. It brings real added value in terms of expertise, in terms of investments, in terms of citizen mobilisation as well. For 150 years, the Red Cross has been an auxiliary to the Government. It has a public service mission. She thought she was a partner of the federal government. Here, it finds that it is considered to be a vulgar subcontractor which is used to avoid the most pressing but which can then be discarded once the emergency has passed. You pride yourself on a firm and humane policy. I can see the firmness. I don't see humanity!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to the Federal Planning Office, the administrative burden on businesses has increased by EUR 150 million compared to 2014. Mr Secretary of State, the government agreement did, however, set a target of a 30% reduction in their cost at the end of the legislature. It must be concluded that we are moving away from that goal. Moreover, the report of the Planning Office notes a constant: not all enterprises are equal in terms of administrative burdens. It is the smallest of them who bear the greatest part of it. Yet these small companies are the backbone of our economy. Therefore, the current situation is quite abnormal. It also appears that the Only Once application, announced in the government agreement with strong trumpets and noises and intended to facilitate the lives of companies by avoiding the transmission of information already in the possession of the federal public authorities, is a source of considerable dissatisfaction among users. Indeed, more than half of them are dissatisfied with this application. However, Mr Secretary of State, you indicated in your general policy note - so you wrote it, not me - that you had defined this application as a priority of the Agency for Administrative Simplification (ASA). You are being noticed in some of your skills, Mr. Secretary of State, but I would like you not to negate others and to mobilize your energy in favour of businesses. Here are my three questions. I would like you to state clearly if you plan to achieve your target of reducing administrative costs by 30 per cent. Otherwise, what rate, probably less ambitious, did you set yourself? Taking into account the latest report of the Planning Office, will you focus your efforts on the burdens on SMEs? Finally, with respect to the Only Once application, have you identified the reasons for dissatisfaction? What concrete plan will you entrust to the Agency for administrative simplification in order to overcome your failures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u70	Secretary of State, every two years, the Office of the Plan estimates the cost of administrative burdens on our businesses and self-employed. The results of this survey, carried out in collaboration with the Agency for Administrative Simplification, have just been published. Administrative obligations amounted to €6.79 billion in 2016. These results can be analysed in two ways. This investigation can first be compared with the previous investigation, which dates back to 2014. In 2016, there was an increase of 2.3% over the estimated total administrative costs in 2014. This is due in particular to the increase in the number of enterprises and self-employed. It is also possible to take heights and to fit into a longer-term perspective. At the time of the first survey in 2000, the total cost of administrative costs was estimated at 8.57 billion euros. This cost was reduced by 21 per cent. With regard to the relative cost of these charges, it is undeniable that our country is on the right track. In 16 years, this cost has been reduced by more than half. It increased from 3.48% of GDP in 2000 to 1.6% of GDP in 2016. In addition, we would like to point out that the cost of administrative burdens on the self-employed has fallen sharply. In the first half of the 2000s, it was close to 2.5 billion. In 2016, this cost amounted to less than EUR 1 billion. UNIZO indicated, however, that administrative burdens would be reduced faster for large firms than for small and medium-sized enterprises. In this regard, we would like to recall that a great deal of work has already been done on this subject in the framework of the SME Action Plan launched jointly with the Minister responsible for the middle classes, self-employed and SMEs. But we come from far away and there is, of course, still work to be done. So, Minister, what do you think of the outcome of the Federal Office of the Plan's investigation into administrative simplification? What measures have already been taken by the government to reduce administrative burdens in general and in particular on small businesses? What next steps will be taken in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u71	Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, this government is right to focus on the elimination of our labour costs handicap, on a strong policy of support for entrepreneurs and self-employed people and on job creation. The result may also be there. The job engine is kicking in. Last year alone, 66 000 jobs were added. So the motto "jobs jobs" works. The government's right to commit itself to that. The government also has a different ambition, i.e. 30% less administrative burden for companies and self-employed persons. I note, however, that this ambition is undermining the government's other ambitions and does not come out so clearly. However, this ambition is very important if we want to promote this supportive policy for entrepreneurs and small self-employed people and if we are right to continue to do so. Not so long ago, you answered a similar question that you and the Minister for Self-employed Policy have drawn up a federal action plan for administrative simplification and that you want to remove that administrative burden further. However, the figures show no or insufficient results and certainly not the proposed reduction of 30% of the administrative burden. That is why we should hear a legitimate demand from UNIZO to devote much more attention to that other competence of yours, namely to reduce administrative burdens, and to show decisiveness there too. This is also an important competence which we must not lose sight of. If we want to work for entrepreneurs with fewer papers, then we certainly need to take the necessary initiatives. That's why I have the following questions. Should we not speed up the implementation of the simplification plan, which you have drawn up with the Minister for Self-employed Persons? There is indeed a plan, an action plan with measures. Shouldn't we accelerate the implementation of that plan and express a clear ambition for 2018? With the current figures, we will not achieve this 30% reduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, three weeks ago in plenary, I answered the exact same question to Mr Dirk Janssens van Open Vld, who asked the question when the report came out. The report by the Federal Planning Office indeed refers to an increase in the administrative burden on enterprises, but these figures represent a total sum for all enterprises. There is no increase in charges per company. The overall burden is increasing and that is a logical consequence of the attracting economy, Mrs Smaers, as you yourself say: jobs, jobs, jobs. Thanks to the re-launch policy of this business-friendly government, there are more companies that employ more staff and increase investment in taxation, which also increases the overall administrative burden. It is rising in billions, but we have to look at that percentage: there are just more companies. Those numbers are pretty good. In addition, we have made progress. On the basis of total economic activity, administrative burdens fell from 1.66% of GDP in 2014 to 1.6% in 2016. It should also be noted that the figures presented by the Planning Office encompass all levels of government and not just the federal government. This government has the ambition to further reduce its own administrative burdens. To do this, SMEs deserve special attention. Indeed, SMEs experience less of this decline than independents and large companies. This is due to several reasons. As soon as it took office, the government looked at the sharp fall in the burden on the self-employed, in particular by simplifying and exempting VAT obligations. The lower costs for large enterprises, on the other hand, stem from the introduction of e-government and various e-invoicing programs that have been implemented with large enterprises in recent years, but not sufficiently with SMEs. Colleagues, the delay in the development of SMEs is, of course, unacceptable. After all, they are the engine of our economy. Therefore, together with then Minister Borsus and current Minister Ducarme, I proposed to the government the SME simplification plan, which was adopted. The plan has 120 measures. Moreover, many of them fall within the competence of Mr Peeters. From Economics, of course, he has a lot of impact. I would like to mention some of the measures. These include simplified access to the land register, the creation of a unique file at the RSVZ for each self-employed person, an automated standard procedure for self-employed persons who request an exemption from contributions, a digital platform for tendering for public contracts and the promotion of Telemarc. In addition, the government is also taking other measures. For example, it was decided that companies themselves no longer provide certificates to compete for public procurement. The authorities will now look them up themselves through the Telemarc system. We also strongly promote the use of e-invoicing. I therefore expect a substantial increase in its use, which will further reduce the administrative burden on our companies. Let me be very clear: the government will do everything in its power to reduce the administrative burden on businesses even further in the coming years, so that our companies can concentrate on their core tasks, namely enterprise. So that ambition is absolutely there. If this has been mentioned less in communication, it is not entirely illogical. Asylum and migration are rather sensitive issues, which are at the heart of the social debate throughout Europe and not only in Belgium. So that gets more media attention. However, is there less work being done in the area of SMEs? No, no less is being done, we are on course. The SME simplification plan is in full swing. Of the 120 measures, some 50 have been implemented, the remaining 70 are still to come. My administration is working very hard on this, together with the various colleagues. Of course, it is not just my competence. I am a coordinating secretary of state, while the great powers of course lie with the ministers themselves. However, that is going well and I am optimistic. The burdens go absolutely down, you can take my word for it. Global charges are rising, but that's because there are more companies. That's actually okay with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u73	Secretary of State, I take note of your statements, but allow me to be a little hesitant. You are going to tell us that everything is fine, but on the part of the Federal Office of the Plan, the opinion is contrary since it says that there is an increase in administrative burdens. You are telling me that there are more companies, so much better for the Belgian State! But the administrative burden is greater since the remarks made by the Federal Office of the Plan – just read the document – relate to tax and employment burdens mainly, which are federal responsibilities. It seems to me that companies expect more voluntarism on the part of the government to reduce burdens and, more specifically, small and medium-sized enterprises with larger burdens. Mr. Secretary of State, I hope that there will be a marked willingness on the part of the government and that the Federal Office of the Plan will not have to see again an increase in administrative burdens. Because beyond "jobs, jobs, jobs" reality would be "paper, paper, paper". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u74	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers and for mentioning some measures taken to reduce administrative burdens. I would also like to point out that the MR Group also supports initiatives to reduce the administrative burden on our small, medium-sized and large enterprises and on our self-employed. Together with the government, Minister Ducrame and our entire group, we are determined to continue along this path.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u75	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. We already knew there was a plan, because you have reported it several times. In my view, speeding up the implementation of this plan and measures will require a little extra attention and action. It is true that the whole government is working on this, but, as you yourself say, you are a coordinating Secretary of State, so I would once again urge you not to forget your other competence, to show the necessary decisiveness in this area too. In any case, we are working for undocumented entrepreneurs. I hope we can say the same about you soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u76	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u77	Colleagues, as I said at the beginning of the sitting, I received an order of business under Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure from Mr Hendrik Vuye, supported by Mrs Veerle Wouters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u78	Veerle WOUTERS Hendrik VUYE Colleagues, I have announced that we would now discuss this order motion. I give the floor to Mr Vuye to explain the order of business. He will have five minutes to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u79	Mr President, the small groups do not, of course, sit in the Conference of Presidents. So we are not in a position to send you there legally, if you go wrong. Then we shall have to do so in plenary. With regard to Prince Laurent's file, which is about to be on the agenda, all the documents in the file clearly show that it is a disciplinary measure. This is stated in both the memo from the Michel Government in our motion for a resolution, in which Mrs Wouters and I quote those passages each time, as well as in the opinion of the law firm Stibbe and in the report of the special committee. When everyone stresses that this is a disciplinary procedure, who am I to contradict all these honorable bodies? Now, when it comes to a disciplinary procedure, we must also follow the general principles of public order, which are reflected in the case law of the Council of State. By the way, that's what the Stibbe office says in its opinion on page 14, No. 19. The office lists some of the general principles, but forget one. In fact, it is settled case law before the Council of State that, when a disciplinary board finds that that is what we will do in the Chamber later, only those Members who took part in the hearing will be able to take part in the vote. That is a rule of public policy which the Council of State applies of its own motion. Mrs Wouters and I quote three recent judgments of the Council of State in our order. There is, firstly, the Delande judgment, in which the Council of State of its own motion raises that plea, since some members of the municipal council who took a sanction were not present at the hearing. Secondly, there is the Fougnies judgment, which concerns the OCMW Council, and, thirdly, there is the Moustier judgment. Twenty MPs were present at the hearing on 21 March. I took pictures of that, just to be clear, because you didn't mention it in the minutes and I'm not so stupid that I wouldn't know that that wouldn't be in the minutes. In other words, according to the principles of public order of the Council of State, twenty Members of Parliament will be allowed to take part in the vote. Then, of course, there is another problem. Article 53 (3) of the Constitution states that the Chamber cannot take decisions, and it is not only the legislative procedure that is at stake here, but any action that the Chamber makes if the majority of its members are not present. The majority of the members shall be 76. There were only 20 of them present at that hearing. So you're stuck here legally. You've been a student wizard. You wanted to make it a disciplinary procedure. Unfortunately, however, you have not followed all the rules, including some of the rules of public order. That is why we ask the Chamber in our motion to withdraw the item on Prince Laurent from the agenda and at the same time to discuss the bill that Mrs Wouters and I have tabled to abolish Prince Laurent's and Princess Astrid's donations and cut them off over a five-year period. You can choose. Either we ensure a clear regime that is in order with all the higher legal rules, namely the abolition of Prince Laurent's dotation, or you continue a disciplinary procedure with which you have committed or will commit a particularly gross irregularity. After all, only the members present at the hearing can vote according to the settled case law of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure provide that each political group has the right to respond to an order motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u81	Mr. Chairman, we received the document at the meeting. Given the complexity of the topic, it would be desirable for the services to be able to translate the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u82	The motion has been translated!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u83	Forgive me, I didn't have the document in French.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in all neutrality, I can say that, according to Mr Vuye, I am one of the lucky ones to be able to vote. It's always funny. I was one of the 20 present. It is also touching how the Vuye&Wouters Group defends the prince's interests; that is a credit to them. Moreover, Mr Vuye, the legislative proposal to which you refer and which you wish to place on the agenda as a priority is in any case obsolete. You are talking about holding a certain percentage of Prince Laurent's dotation from 2016. In the meantime, it is already 2018 and the bill you submitted at that time is therefore obsolete anyway. It seems to me that it is rather difficult to go into that. In this respect, a consideration was made in the committee and in the Conference of Presidents. Furthermore, the plenary session of 8 March 2018 discussed how the work should proceed and the procedure was adopted. So I suggest that we stick to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make a few comments. The first, Mr Vuye, is that at no point in the report of the Special Commission, it is not written that the procedure is a disciplinary procedure. I didn't see that. I didn't read that. Even though we have said that it is essential, in a case like this, in a case like this, to respect the rights of the defence – it is quite normal – it is not quite the same. Two. Reference is made to article 53 of the Constitution, which states that a majority of the members must be present in order to make a decision, but the Special Commission is a committee of the House. She didn't make a decision. Otherwise, we would have nothing more to do today. We have prepared the work of the House of Representatives and it is up to it to make the decision based on the constitutional majorities that everyone knows. Three. I believe that Mr. Vuye forgets an essential element of the decision of the Conference of Presiding Officers, which clearly stated that all parliamentarians had the right not only to participate in the meeting but also, three days before this meeting, to read the documents and documents that were submitted to the House of Representatives. In these documents, of course, there is the written document of Mr. Arnauts who came here in open session, and who simply read the written document before him. Mr Arnauts, as we know, has not been interrupted and we can therefore find very clearly all the means which he has been able to invoke. I therefore consider that the point of order is absolutely unfounded.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u86	Mr President, Mr Delpérée refers to several agreements made at the Conference. Of course, the Conference of Presidents is not above the rules of law and certainly not above the case law of the Council of State. I also think that Mr Buysrogge misunderstood. Indeed, the prince is defended when additional mistakes are made here. I was also one of the 20 people present at that hearing. If anything has become clear after the lawyer's explanation, it is that not only the law of 2013 seems like nothing, we already knew that, we rightly voted against it at the time, but also that this government has already sufficiently messed up this disciplinary disciplinary procedure. It therefore seems important to me not to make any more mistakes, because you are only playing the prince with mistakes. If there is an illegal vote today, he will go to court tomorrow and there is a very good chance that he will be right there too. Then there will be no one-off deduction of a few percent, but only a provisional deduction. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that we have every interest in dealing with this state of affairs and in ensuring that the 2013 law and the donations are abolished.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u87	Mr Degroote, you are asking for the floor, but in fact only one Member per group has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u88	(...) What Mr Vuye says today, he should have said on 8 March. It's too bad he's gonna come up with that right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u89	Mr Vuye, I can no longer give you the floor in principle, but I will allow you to do so if you repeat briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u90	Mr President, if you do not apply the Rules of Procedure to your own group, it is difficult for you to apply it to me. Mr Degroote, my colleague Mr Wouters and I will table motions when we wish to do so. That is entirely in line with the Rules of Procedure. To be honest, your opinion on this matter doesn't matter. Mr Buysrogge, you surprised me. We tabled the proposal to abolish the contributions from Laurent and Astrid when we were members of the N-VA Group. You are now saying that you will not approve this proposal. In the meantime, you have become a wonderful defender of the monarchy. Mr Delpérée, it is not a question of reading a report, but of whether or not the voters were present at the hearing. From a city council or an OCMW council there is also a report that can be read if there is a disciplinary procedure. It's about the attendance at the hearing. Honestly, go ahead. After that, it'll turn out to be a mess. As far as I'm concerned, go ahead. You really don't have to hold back. Keep going.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I see two elements in Mr Vuye's order. There is, first of all, the deletion of the item on the agenda. If we take anything off the agenda, that is a change of agenda. He is asking, second, the urgency for a bill. Let me start with the second point. Mr Vuye, you should have asked for urgency at the time of the submission. You submitted the proposal on 7 January 2016. I'm noticing that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u92	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u93	We disagree. I must also apply the Rules of Procedure to the amendment of the agenda. I have to check whether a third of the Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u94	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 March 2018, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: the proposal to withdraw from the donation granted to a member of the Royal Family, No. 3015/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 28 March 2018, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: the proposal to retain the allocation of a member of the Royal Family, No. 3015/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u95	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Thoron and Mrs Dumery.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u96	Mr President, we refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u97	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is quite unusual, but for the sake of objectivity, I shall start positively with flowers - roses! Indeed, you have a merit in this matter - I would be tempted to say one - but it is worth pointing out! You have repatriated the EUR 121 million from the wage moderation contribution to the Local Government Pension Fund. This deserved to be stressed at the beginning of the debate. This is, however, a fair return, since it is normal that the contributions paid by local authorities for their staff for some 30 years have been used to finance the pensions of their staff. But you had to get it. You got it from your colleague, Mrs De Block, and that's a positive point for communal finances. In this respect, having convinced your colleague of the relevance of the measure, one could have imagined, hoped for a retroactivity over a few years - I did not say the thirty, let us be reasonable! This would, of course, have led to a drastic improvement in the situation of the Fund and thus in the finances of the local authorities. Unfortunately, you have not preferred this option. That being said, let us return to this new pension reform. Since the beginning of this Parliament, you have constantly attacked our pensions. From the outset, you imposed the pension at 67, complicated access to the early pension, removed the pension bonus, imposed an index jump and I will stay there. These measures have affected all pensioners and future pensioners. However, it was in the public service that your attacks were the most virulent. In addition to what you have imposed on everyone, public service workers must be subject to your specific measures. These are the real scapegoats of your government. Under the pretext of harmonization, you have taken advantage of this opportunity to generalize the least advantageous system. Thus, you have removed the inclusion of years of study and it is now a question of removing the preferential tantèmes. We have referred to it in topical issues and will come back to it in future sessions. With these measures, teachers, teachers, firefighters, military personnel and railway workers will have to work longer to earn less. The simulations of the Public Sector Pension Service now integrated into the SFP (Federal Pension Service) show that with your measurements and just the removal of the inclusion of years of study, a teacher in the upper secondary school will have to work two more years and will lose 116.71 euros per month. Today, Minister, with this project, you push the nail and what a nail! Colleagues, you are about to decide that the years in the public service as a contract agent will no longer give rise to a public pension. In concrete terms, as you have recognized - or rather your chief of staff who were at your side in committee - people who have the misfortune of being appointed late will lose up to 500 gross euros per month. This can be seen from a table that you have distributed, but also from concrete cases and not from simulations. You're going to tell me that this concerns those who are appointed late. But some of them take years to be appointed. Their organizing power sometimes makes them wait ten, fifteen, twenty or thirty years before appointing them. These are going to lose a lot. But it's not their fault. And you'll punish them. Five hundred euros a month, it's huge! Do you realize what this can mean to a pensioner? Especially since this is a complementary impact to those of other measures. For us, this mixed pension is a real social regression that penalizes agents in the service of the population. They ensure the functioning of the State, the Regions, the Communities and the local authorities. This project is certainly a significant step backwards, as indefensible in terms of the social protection of workers as it is in terms of the status of civil servants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u98	To hear you, I really feel like I'm hearing the story of the sprinkler watering. In Wallonia alone, 70% of local staff is not appointed. In Flanders, the majority of local staff are appointed. It is in the socialist communes that there are the least number of appointed personnel. And now you say we have to wait for decades. Maybe that's the problem. We should have done the same thing in Flanders and named it faster. We would not have the problem that you denounce and that the minister is precisely solving.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u99	Mr Flahaux, this project does not only affect the communes. But it is true that many communes name too few. I'm going to talk about Herstal, the commune I run. We regularly try to have an objective set of appointments because I think that is part of the public service and the moral commitment to the public servants we recruit. With this project, you are again seriously undermining the public services that our citizens benefit from. In reality, it is an ideological measure with a budgetary purpose, to make savings in the short, medium and long term. It has been felt since the beginning of the legislature and felt in this debate. These are savings on the backs of pensioners who break our public services. With this kind of action and with the force of making the public service less and less attractive, your government - it is a right-wing ideology - confirms its will to weaken the state and its missions. This is not our party's choice and we are fighting this with virulence. We defend quality public services. In addition, beyond these global considerations, the government's draft disregards, ignores, disregards the most basic legal rules. The Council of State has made fundamental observations in this regard and the Government has simply denied them. First, there is a significant decline in social rights, which are nevertheless protected by the Constitution. Second, the Council of State noted that with this measure, the government creates discrimination. You'll tell me that others are being removed. But we're creating them! Indeed, there can be no justification for a person appointed before 1 December 2017 to receive a public pension, whereas a person appointed the next day must be satisfied with a mixed pension. This brings me to a crucial question, the retroactivity of the law. When I was told last week that there were amendments, I thought we were going to at least fix that problem. What a nenni! Indeed, there are some technical adjustments among the amendments of the majority but, despite these amendments, the government anticipates that its law will apply to persons appointed after November 30, 2017. As the date has passed for several months, there is therefore retroactive effect. In doing so, the Government confers retroactive effect on its law which undermines, without justification, legal certainty and the principle of non-retroactivity. The question was asked yesterday in committee. Everyone knows that the retroactivity of a law can only be accepted with adequate justification and a goal of general interest, especially, as is the case in this case, when it penalises our fellow citizens. The project we are discussing today seriously undermines the legitimate expectations of public service workers. In fact, when they took office, workers could legitimately expect to be entitled to a public pension in the event of an appointment from the beginning of their appointment. That was the rule of the game. With your measure, this will no longer be the case. So you betray, in a way, the confidence of the workers who have joined the public service. That is why we have re-tabled an amendment that provides that the system applies only to new entrants to the public service. They will know what the rules of the game are when they join the public service. Finally, the government's proposal ignores the rules on the allocation of powers with the federated authorities. In particular, this was the cause of the conflict of interest. Ladies and gentlemen, I come back to the impact on workers. The minister is obviously aware of the enormous loss that his project will bring to them. He's lucid. I don't doubt it. In fact, he recognized it during the debates. That is why it sets up the second pillar: to compensate for this loss. But what second pillar? It's a smoke screen. The latter will not compensate for the loss of money for the workers. Beyond favouring the second pillar instead of the first, which brings us back to ideology, and which constitutes a slide, whereas only the first pillar is solid and solid, it does not compensate for the difference. That's not true, and you don't have to make him believe. I'll give you three reasons. Firstly, while the measure has a retroactive effect – the mixed pension will have a retroactive effect – the establishment of a second pillar will only be valid for the future. There may be a backservice, but you know like me that it's theoretical. You'll tell me what backservice you're going to do at the federal level compared to someone who's been in the administration for ten years, fifteen years, twenty years. You will tell me which commune will be able to provide back-service for these workers. We will not be able to compensate for these years with the second pillar. It's a first important shift element. Much of the career of some agents will simply be sacrificed. Secondly, contributions under the second pillar of the pension will not always be sufficient to cover the loss of a legal pension. When I say "not always," I feel like it's going to be "very rarely." According to the explanatory statement of your law, in order to compensate for the loss of legal pension, an average level of funding would be required in the order of 6% of the salary. We can move on to different percentages. The figures confirm this rate by different simulations. Others go even further. At least we're talking about 6%. Now, here we're talking about 2 and then 3 per cent. So we are below that 6% and largely! Thirdly, the supplementary pension will not necessarily be granted to all contract staff in the public service. If the federal authority has indicated its intention to set up a second pillar of pension as of January 1, 2018 – with the postponement of the passage of the law, I do not know what the date is finally and we will have the opportunity to hear you earlier, I suppose – this will not necessarily be the case for all public authorities. As pension matters are clearly a federal jurisdiction, some entities simply do not have the jurisdiction to establish a second pillar for their contract agents. This was revealed by the Council of State. The federal authority has jurisdiction over pensions. The Council of State goes further by stating that if the federal government establishes a second pension pillar for its contractors, it must, according to identical rules, establish and finance a second pillar for the contractors of its federated entities. I know that discussions have taken place on this subject in committee. There can be no discrimination. The government sat down on this fundamental remark of the Council of State claiming that the Council of State was wrong to argue that the introduction of a supplementary pension was not in the area of pensions. This justification had been given somewhere by the Conseil d'État because it reiterated the following argument: "The fact that the law may relate not to the federal State's competence in matters of public pensions but to its competence in matters such as labour law or social security does not alter this conclusion." This is clearly reflected in the opinion of the Council of State. When, in committee, this remark was made to you, minister, you simply replied that it was merely an interpretation. What a contempt for the Council of State! In reality, the federal government is transferring charges to federated entities. With the mixed pension system, the federal government will pay less pensions. We have shown that this will decrease. It is therefore the federated entities that will have to finance the second pillar. It is therefore a transfer of expenses from the federal to the federated entities. Some will not be able to afford a second pension pillar for their staff. Contrary to what some people can imagine – let's not pretend – some local authorities are in financial difficulty. Some of them are under guardianship. Some do not have the capacity to make money for this second pillar and, therefore, their agents or other structures may not have a second pillar. In the end, they will be penalized and will find themselves in situations of competition between public authorities. Some public authorities will be more attractive because they will be able to provide a second pillar pension while others will not have the necessary resources. It's intolerable! Minister, you are constantly repeating that you are going to help the local authorities finance the establishment of a second pension pillar, stating that you have provided an incentive. It is true that there is one, but I would rather put the term in quotation marks. I'll be back in a minute. What is the mechanism? Local authorities that will put in place a second pillar for their contractors will benefit from a 50% reduction in their accountability contributions. The truth is that it is a discriminatory system. Only those jurisdictions that make an accountability contribution will be able to benefit from it. Why not apply the incentive on the basic contribution, so that everyone can benefit from it? It would have been fairer. We had the opportunity to discuss it. I do not understand why you have chosen only the municipalities that pay this accountability fee. You could have foreseen it for everyone; it would have been non-discriminatory. Secondly, it is not an incentive, because it assumes that we are encouraged to do something. In this case, however, this is both an incentive for some and a boon effect for others, i.e. those who already have a second pillar of pensions. Moreover, this is mostly the case in Flanders. I do not make a value judgment on the presence of this system in several communes, but I see that your measure will create a boon effect for them. As it is not the federal government that pays the bill, it is not the federal government that finances the incentive, but the local government. We know that the Fund operates in a closed envelope. If some take advantage of it, others will suffer it. This aspect of a boon effect will therefore favour Flanders to the detriment of Brussels and Wallonia. Indeed, on the basis of a projection by the Federal Pension Service, it is shown that the Flemish local authorities would benefit – from the current figures – from a net bonus of 8 million and that this means an addition paid by the Walloon local authorities up to 6 million and for the Brussels local authorities up to 2 million, just over a year. In other words, Wallonia and Brussels will pay for Flanders. I said in committee, "What Flemish local authorities?" We know it's relatively concentrated. The situation may change, but Flanders has a great advantage. Why this bounty effect? It's not an incentive, it wasn't necessary. It is therefore not surprising that a conflict of interest has been initiated by the COCOF Parliament. We cannot understand how the MR, the only French-speaking party of the majority, supports this shift towards Flanders. I come to the last point of your reform: the question of financing the local government pension fund. As we know, this Fund faces funding and cash flow problems. We will not deny it, we have never denied it. The problem is not new. Already in 2011, Minister Daerden had to come up with a solution, which had been the subject of a broad consensus at the time. This solution was transitory and was in line with a logic of massive appointments, but which, as Mr. Flahaux said earlier, was not found on the ground despite the mechanisms for encouraging appointment provided for in the Act. For various reasons, local authorities have not followed this logic and it is clear today that a new solution must be found. And you bring one. But your solution is to reduce the pension payable by the Fund. You say: "For the problem to be solved, the Fund will pay less pension tomorrow – but "tomorrow" is the day after tomorrow! – and thus the problem of financing will be solved because the Fund will pay only the part for the statutory pension." But as you do in a mixed board, he'll pay less and less. However, Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposed solution does not resolve the problem in the short and medium term. The burden for the municipalities, despite your reform, will increase in the coming years. On the basis of estimates from the Federal Pension Service, I will take two examples. It is known that all of these simulations are performed at a given time and are by definition not accurate. They are determined according to parameters, but the reality is different. But this makes it possible to have an indication. If we take the city of Liège, the increase in the basic contribution and accountability would, within a few years, lead to an increase of 30 million. For the city of Brussels, this amounts to 15 million. We're not going to get to those numbers, that's clear! However, these evaluations do not take into account the implementation of the second pillar. Because even if it is partially compensated, 50% remains to be paid. There is still a part to be taken over and this will increase the burden on the municipalities. I am not talking here about the budgetary impact of the repatriation of the accountability fee on the fiscal year, which you have decided to implement for cash-flow reasons of the Fund. There were other solutions. You have decided to transfer this aspect to the treasury of the communes, not only on this treasury of the local authorities but also on the regular budget and therefore – you are a municipalist like me, you know what this represents – by making it even more complicated to prepare the budget, to the detriment of the citizens. As we know, the proposed solution is neither adequate nor fair. It must be borne in mind that, unlike all other pension schemes in Belgium, the local authorities are still the only ones to bear the full burden of the pensions of their agents, without intervention by the Federal State – for the 121 million, this is another thing, it is a repatriation of what is due to them – without alternative financing, as is said in the social security system in general. We call for working together so that, finally, we can achieve, within a reasonable period of time, a lasting solution for the pensions of the local authorities which do not take place on the back of the workers. We urge that, through external and partial funding, we broaden the basis of solidarity and that a structural solution be quickly found with local authorities. In this context, we tabled an amendment in committee to that effect. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these are some elements that I wanted to re-develop here in plenary session on this important subject for workers, for public authorities and for the public service. By way of conclusion, the mechanisms provided for in this bill are legally fragile and may be overturned by the Constitutional Court. But they are especially catastrophic for the public service workers who are appointed after November 30, 2017, catastrophic for the federated entities that will have to compensate for the unilateral decisions of the federal, catastrophic for the local authorities, Brussels and Walloons, which will finance the incentives to the second pillar of the Flemish local authorities – that is the effect of the bounty that I mentioned. They are also disastrous for the financial balance of local governments whose pension fund, despite the reform, remains the only pension system to finance itself. According to the simulations, these reforms will lead by 2023 to an explosion of charges for the local authorities. Mr Minister, this is again an ideological reform with a budgetary purpose, on the backs of workers, future pensioners and public services. So you will understand that we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u100	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law was debated in committee for hours. As at that time, I listened carefully to Mr Daerden's speech today, which I regard as an expert in this area. We don't always agree with each other, but he does have solid file knowledge. You will not be surprised that we have a slightly different opinion on this draft law. First of all, it is a good draft law, because it consists of three parts, which together form a logic and which make it all coherent. The first part deals with the mixed pension. The other two parts, which are certainly equally important, deal with the generalisation of the second pension pillar, the supplementary pension for contractual staff and the introduction of a responsive mechanism, which reduces part of the pension bill for local administrations which build up a sufficiently high supplementary pension for their contractual staff. So there is a logic in that package, and it was so included in the coalition agreement. The N-VA welcomes the fact that this can now be knocked off. It was also discussed in the A Committee. There has been sufficient consultation on the three parts. In this way, as far as the mixed pension is concerned, there will also be an end to a kind of improper use of late appointments, which is the case with many local governments. After all, many civil servants are employed as contractual staff for many years and contributions to this effect are paid, but they are often still appointed as statutory staff members at the end of their career. As a result, they receive a statutory pension for the whole of their career, whereas this has not been contributed in this way. This measure therefore seems to be the logic itself. It's a little weird that it took so long before this was modified. It also has to do with equal treatment between the contractual staff themselves. To date, stakeholders are in great uncertainty. I'm speaking as mayor now, too. I've seen it in my congregation. They wondered if they would still be appointed at the end of their career. That was sometimes even previewed to them. Some of them did, others didn't. And that is a flagrant violation of the principle of equality between contractual staff. For these people, too, this draft offers, firstly, security and, secondly, equal treatment, which will help them to come out better, at least if we decide that today. When introducing the mixed pension, we also respect the acquired rights, as the Minister does in all pension reforms that are being implemented. In order not to undermine legitimate expectations, it was stated from the outset that this would only apply to the appointments made after 30 November 2017. Fortunately, the invocation of the conflict of interest has not changed that either. It was also clearly announced from the outset that those who had already been appointed or were appointed before that date would still be covered by the old system. In general, this pension reform does not mean that staff's pension in the public sector is falling. The figures show that 60% of local government staff are already contracted and the trend towards further contractualisation is increasing. The entry into force of the mixed pension is linked to a political commitment to a supplementary pension, the second pillar for contractual staff. The federal government is creating a good legal framework for supplementary pensions in the public sector through the present draft law. This is a flexible legislative framework which gives the various negotiating committees in the public sector the freedom to complete this in a very concrete and more detailed manner, while at the same time establishing a minimum level of social protection to which each supplementary pension system must comply. If that law exists, the various public employers can start building up a supplementary pension plan for their staff. In the long term, this will help to close the gap between the pension income of contractual and statutory staff. It is not just about the inequality between contractual staff; in the long term, the gap between contractual and statutory staff is also narrowing, although this will take a little longer. For the federal contract staff, the Minister responsible has already released an envelope of EUR 32 million per year, amounting to 3% of the salary mass, for the building up of a supplementary pension. An envelope is also provided at Flemish level for the construction of a supplementary pension of 3 %. We know that these pension plans are not yet in place, but they will be able to do so quite quickly from the adoption of this bill, as the legal basis will then be there. Finally, this draft law is also part of the broader trend towards harmonizing the various pension systems of civil servants, employees and self-employed persons, although the latter is not directly mentioned here. On the basis of the reasons I have just outlined, the N-VA Group will fully support this reform. Minister, I would like to thank you for the work and persistence with which you have dealt with this dossier. After all, it has had a lot of feet in the earth.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u101	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the weeks follow and are similar, because it has been five months, day to day, since we started the debate on the bill commonly referred to as a mixed pension; five months that we are waiting to complete a reform that is in the right direction in favour of the local authorities. And I am stunned when I hear Mr. Daerden tell us that this law is catastrophic. What was catastrophic was the Daerden law for the finances of our communes. Thanks to Minister Bacquelaine, who first frozen part of this reform on January 1, 2017 and who today corrects the most difficult aspects of this law, we can now be proud to have on the table the Bacquelaine law that will be very positive for local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u102	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u103	It is quality that counts, not quantity! The draft law has two objectives: first, to guarantee the long-term financing of pensions and, second, to encourage all employers in the public sector to propose a supplementary pension scheme for their contractual staff. More concretely, the reform of Minister Bacquelaine is structured around three measures: the first aims to set up the mixed pension, the second removes the regularisation contribution, the third provides a rebate of part of the wage moderation contribution. As far as the introduction of the mixed pension is concerned, should we remind you that the introduction of a mixed pension has been a demand of the Union of Cities for years? The aim is to put an end to a widespread practice: the late appointment of staff, which is clearly one of the reasons for the deficit of the Local Consolidated Pension Fund. From now on, civil servants will benefit from a public sector pension paid by this fund, from the moment they are appointed, and from an employee's pension for the duration of their career as a contract worker. For this part, the pension will be covered by the overall management of wage earners, which is the responsibility of the Federal State. It should be noted that the draft law has been approved by both the CSC and the Liberal Union in Committee A, since it provides in parallel with the introduction of the mixed pension provisions encouraging public authorities to offer a supplementary pension to contract staff. In fact, the granting of a supplementary pension to contract staff in the public sector simply meets a requirement of fairness in relation to the level of pensions enjoyed by statutory staff. In order to achieve this, the Government is planning a financial incentive of up to 50 per cent of the cost of the premiums paid to finance a supplementary pension plan. The financial incentive will be granted taking into account the existence of a pension plan on 1 January 2020. The late communes who want to take advantage of the incentive have therefore more than two years to set up a pension plan with a premium level of 2% in 2020 and 3% in 2021. The federal government will also set an example by introducing, starting in 2018, a supplementary pension plan for members of its contract staff. As my colleague has said, a budget of EUR 32 million is foreseen for this purpose. The second part of this reform aims at the abolition of regularisation contributions. The bill also terminates the contribution that a local authority would have been liable for as of January 1, 2017, under the so-called Daerden Act, in the event of a permanent appointment of a contract staff member more than five years after his or her entry into service. This is an important burden that the municipalities will escape. The minister had already frozen this since January 1, 2017. We must stress that. The difference in the amount between the pension contribution due for employees and that due for statutory employees, throughout the contractual period prior to appointment, will therefore be eliminated. Assuming that the municipalities have appointed 1% of their contract agents – which is a low hypothesis – this would have represented an annual charge of no less than 170 million euros, to which the municipalities will escape thanks to the Minister Bacquelaine and the government. In view of the importance of this burden, it is also likely that the municipalities would simply have renounced the appointment of their contractual staff. We must therefore really welcome this measure. Finally, the third part of this reform concerns the rebate of part of the wage moderation contribution. Mr Daerden pointed out that when he spoke of "flowers". This part of the reform is unanimous because the bill provides for a return to the consolidated pension fund of the provincial governments of the portion of the wage moderation contribution on pensions, which is currently levied by the overall management on the salaries of local government officials. It is a fair return – Mr Daerden, you are right – which is estimated at 121 million euros. It's not nothing! Again, a significant amount is being made to support our local authorities. This is a historic decision, given that the federal state, for the first time, is directly involved in reducing the pension costs of local government officials. Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is no less than EUR 293 million that will support local finances every year through the measures I have just mentioned. In addition to this amount, there is greater equity between statutory and contractual agents. I have introduced this supplementary pension in my municipality for the appointed agents. I found it unfair that two civil servants who share an office, one statutory and the other contractual, who throughout their career perform the same work, received two completely different pensions. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u104	You know very well that it is impossible to name everyone! That is why, for several years now, in my municipality of Bièvre, I have introduced this supplementary pension system, which makes it possible to provide 3%. But we can go beyond that: it obviously depends on political will. Some people want it, others less. Thanks to this, certainly for the lowest salaries, in some municipalities which have introduced this system, the pensions of contract staff and statutory staff are identical. In terms of equity between workers, that seems to me the least. [[Applause]] Mr Daerden, it is not doing anything that would have been unacceptable. There would have been a break-up first... [[Brouhahaha]] May I speak? I'm saying if the government hadn't done anything... no, I can't speak. All right, I'm leaving.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u105	Go on, Mr. Clarinval!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u106	Don't do anything would've been irresponsible. There would have been a breakdown in pension payments this year and there would have simply been a lack of fairness in the pension system of the future. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will not be surprised: our group will obviously enthusiastically support this reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u107	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law further implements our government agreement by introducing the further building up of supplementary pensions in the public sector for contractual workers. The civil servants' pension will start from the beginning and not after a five-year career. There is also the introduction of the famous mixed pension, where the contractual years will count as years built up as an employee and the appointed years will count as civil servants years. The contractual years will no longer automatically count for the government pension. I know that there are mixed feelings about this, but it is clear that a contracted staff member who does the same work as a permanent staff member feels very unfairly treated. In addition, we note that there is a very strong trend to recruit many more contractual agents than those identified. We note this with the various authorities, although the numbers vary there. For example, in the Flemish Region, we find that 62 % is contractual, 69 % in the Walloon Region and 61 % in the Brussels Region. These rates are lower within the regions themselves. In Flanders it is 41 %, 31 % in Wallonia and 85 % in Brussels. At the federal level, those numbers are much lower. We also note that there is a great evolution within the local authorities. While in 1995 there was still 46 % contractual, we note that in 2014 60% of the people recruited in local governments will be contracted. It is therefore important to establish a proper arrangement for these contractual partners as well. I believe that this will also strengthen mobility. This mobility is necessary in order to move from one workplace to another. The various statutes can be an obstacle. This will also contribute to the financing of staff contributions. An exception is made for education, more specifically for those recruited before 1 December 2017. Not 9 October 2014. We believe it is important that the date of the government agreement should not be taken, but rather the later date, with a supplementary pension linked to it. For basic education we would have liked to see a solution in this law, Minister. It didn't come. However, the people in basic education have been taken care of. Flemish Minister Crevits ensures that an effective budget has been made available for the supplementary pension for the people of basic education who have not yet been appointed. The Minister at the time could not live up to that. People who have been in primary education for nine years will receive EUR 1 770 on an annual basis as a function of those nine years of full-time equivalent. This law builds up a supplementary pension for contractual staff by the federal level. I believe that this is an important signal. We want to ensure a supplementary pension for everyone who has been contracted out. We want to offer this on the basis of a contribution of 3% of the wage mass. Flanders has also been followed, with a budget of 11 million euros. I believe that this is an important signal for the local authorities. Many of them have already started with a supplementary pension, but they are certainly not yet in receipt of that contribution. Some Flemish cities have a much higher contribution. However, this is not financially feasible for everyone, that is true, but I think it is important that we know that this should be possible. The municipalities must assume their responsibility for the contractual staff. I have learned that today 15% of the Flemish municipalities, 8% of the Brussels municipalities and 6% of the Walloon municipalities meet the conditions for a reduction in the response contribution. The municipalities have been given a two-year period to work towards these conditions with a roadmap. Minister, you are indeed giving an incentive to the municipalities to build up a supplementary pension with a roadmap starting at 2% of the wage mass. You do this by halving the response contribution so that you can build up the supplementary pension with the rest of that amount. This response contribution shall ensure that municipalities which do not work with a balanced relationship between statutory and contractual staff and contribute to the fund receive a reduction. This also means that the good pupils, who do not pay a response contribution, also pay for the others and that the municipalities which, according to our forecasts, cannot pay a supplementary pension, because they have a financial difficulty, also contribute to the funding. We find this a difficult point, just like the statutory staff made available, which Mr Vercamer mentioned when discussing the committee, who are employed in hospitals, among other things. There one can no longer recruit statutory staff, but one is obliged to recruit contractual staff. In this way, we are moving towards a distortion of the response contribution, with which the institutions are saddled without being able to do anything about it. That is and remains an important problem for us. The regularisation contribution, which had been introduced but was not yet applicable, is also abolished, whereas it was actually intended for the municipalities that recruited people late in the day and retained them as contractual staff. According to some, this means removing a threshold to make a staff member statutory, but it also means less financial resources for the Consolidated Pension Fund for all municipalities. It has already been mentioned that this pension fund is a matter of some concern. However, two measures have been taken to increase and speed up the Fund's food supply through the faster and monthly payment of the response contribution and through the wage moderation contribution, which will ultimately be an incentive to feed the fund a little more. We will support this draft, Minister, but we still have a few points of interest. Firstly, the financing of the pension fund tout court remains a concern for us. Secondly, how will you respond to the statutory staff in hospitals, possibly together with Minister De Block, in order to ensure that they do not go deeper? They will have to make a much higher contribution as a result of the response contribution. We continue to be concerned about the payment difficulties of municipalities that contribute to this solidarity fund but ultimately get little return. As a result of the merger of municipalities and OCMW's and the transfers of staff they wish to make between them, Flanders is asking for a regulatory framework, so that this does not become an arithmetic model and one with confidence and without having to pay higher compensation contributions that could be carried out together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u108	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has taken a while, but we have now finished our second reading. Moreover, I once again wonder, Mr President, what is the added value of a second reading? I have already said that we would do well to look with the services of the Chamber at what a second reading will ultimately yield. I have the impression that this is often a delay manoeuvre and that certain people want to obstruct things in order to slow them down. The added value is extremely limited, as we hardly learn new things at a second reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u109	Each time, it is hoped that second reading will change the opinion of the minister and the government, but we are disappointed every time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u110	So this is actually the purpose of the second reading: to hope that the government changes its mind. It is also possible to plan a third, fourth, fifth or even a thirty-first reading. Mr Daerden, that will not change much. In addition, there was the conflict of interest of your friends from the Cocof, yet another parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u111	I didn't want to interrupt you, but I'm still doing it because you're going too far. I take the example of the 6,000 euro defiscalised. This is proof that this second reading and the reactions on the ground can lead to reflection. It is therefore sometimes possible to change your mind. Except to say that the House has become a place to endorse the government's decisions, which would be undemocratic, it seems that the debate retains its raison d'être on the merits of the cases. You and your colleagues regularly talk about conflict of interest as if it were flibus. I would like to recall that we are in full compliance with Article 143 of the Constitution. Unless the Open Vld no longer wants to work within this framework, it must be admitted that when the federated entities consider that they are injured, it makes sense that the conflict of interest can be activated. That is the case in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u112	Mrs. Fonck, thank you for your legal explanation. A legal explanation is always interesting to listen to; I am a lawyer myself. However, ladies and gentlemen, on the substance, we should not ask legal questions but substantive questions. After the second reading and the conflict of interest, have we learned anything from the first reading? Did we hear new arguments during the second reading or during the discussion of the conflict of interests, which we had not heard at first reading? I certainly don't. It was a recycling, a repetition, as often, without any new arguments being developed. I very much regret that, because it takes a very long time, but well, I am told that this is the price of democracy. Of course, the rights they have are exhausted. In any case, the reading of the second reading came at the request of the Green Group, but in my opinion that was absolutely not a good thing and the second reading gave us very little. In the meantime, the procedures have been exhausted and we are now discussing the draft law on mixed pensions in plenary. This draft law remedys, first of all, an anomaly for officials in the pension system. Secondly, it creates a supplementary pension for contractual employee officials. First of all, the anomaly consisted in the fact that officials who had worked under contract for a period of time and were subsequently appointed by law could include their contractual years as fixed-term years, which allowed them to obtain a much better pension. Moreover, that scheme did not encourage all the authorities to quickly appoint the officials concerned, at the end of a career of contractual officials, in order to improve their pensions. That is, of course, disastrous, especially for the budgetary context. The regulation now before us makes that right. This is done with the support of several trade unions. Minister, in the Committee A you obtained the agreement of both the Christian trade union, which we have just spoken to during Question Time, and the liberal trade union. In other words, for once there was no unanimous trade union front, since two of the three trade unions promised their support. Honestly, I don't understand how some people can still defend that anomaly. I admit that ministers, even your father, Mr Daerden, tried for years to correct that anomaly, and each time they collided on the front of conservatives who didn't want to know about it. Minister, you have managed to do so now. You manage to streamline the pension and remove the anomalies. That is a good thing. I think it's the obvious thing. You also received the support of the various associations of cities and municipalities, both from Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, to carry out this reform. I would like to briefly mention the purely Flemish problem of the basic education centres, which I raised with a number of Members of Parliament, including Mrs Becq, at first reading. This proves, by the way, Mrs Fonck, that Parliament does not just approve everything the government brings here. We have called for attention to be paid to this. Colleagues, you may also all have received the e-mails from the staff working at those basic education centres. Well, we replied and asked the Minister how we could solve that problem. That didn't fall into deaf ears. The Minister stressed that he could not solve this problem with this bill, but that he would consult with the Länder. He did indeed consult with the Flemish Government and a separate arrangement has now been found with the Flemish Government to offer the persons concerned a supplementary pension. That is a good thing. Mrs Fonck, you just said that Parliament has become a machine that approves everything the government says. That is not the case. Once again, the amendment was made at first reading and not in the second or third reading. Should it depend on you, we would organise 80 lectures and we would probably never get anything approved, but that is probably your view of a parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law also contains a second part, which concerns supplementary pensions for contractual officials. I believe that this is even more important in itself than the correction of the anomaly, because it has also been discussed for decades. I remember, among other things, the attempt of Secretary of State Hendrik Bogaert at the time. Mr Bogaert has tried many times in good faith to introduce a supplementary pension system for contractual officials. That was not possible, because every time people were bumping into the question of how to finance it. How would it be possible for the municipalities themselves to finance supplementary pensions? Well, the Minister offers a solution by giving the local authorities, the municipalities, an incentive to take action in this light.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u113	You say the minister provides an incentive. You agree with me: this is an incentive in a closed envelope. The fund is closed. Who, then, pays the incitor? The local authorities themselves. Do you have another interpretation of the budgetary technique?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u114	Mr Daerden, someone has to pay the bill, that's obvious. Either we do it in the socialist way, with a blank cheque. (Protests from Mr Daerden) In insurance law, that exists. It's called bonus malus. Those who do well will be paid a fee. Those who do worse pay the bill. That is what we are doing. We do this in a financially responsible way, with a closed envelope. Socialist arithmetic assumes an open envelope, a blank cheque, without limit. Mr Daerden, you know a little English:there is no such thing as a free lunch. Someone has to pay the bill. This is done with a closed envelope, giving the good students a little more rights. Colleagues, the importance of supplementary pensions cannot be underestimated. If a local government or a government contributes 6% on an annual basis to the supplementary pension, pensioners will receive a pension equivalent to 75% of their last salary. Among other things, our colleagues in the sp.a are calling for a pension that guarantees people's comfort in life, which is, moreover, a very legitimate demand. However, the question arises as to how this is financed. Mr John Crombez wants to do so by cutting off the highest pensions. Of course, when you make that calculation, you don't get there. If we let it depend on the pensions of parliamentarians, magistrates and a number of others, then we will get a few tens of millions of euros but no more than that. A much better system for paying a pension of 1 500 euros and more is to do what the government does, namely to introduce an additional system of pensions which pays contributions during the career, ideally up to 6%, so that at the end of the journey the pension is 75% of the last wage. Ladies and gentlemen, we can have a decent pension for everyone. We do that here. I note, like Mrs Becq, that a number of cities and municipalities, especially in Flanders, are likely to have more responsibility and are already providing supplementary pensions. Mr. Secretary, I'm a "cumulator." That has become a swear word in politics, but it has the advantage of having some knowledge of things. This applies to a number of colleagues sitting here, ships or mayors. In my city, Kortrijk, we are already giving a supplementary pension today. We do so for some of our staff with the VIA funds, as it is called in Flanders, at a rate of 3% of the salary. In the long term, the ambition must be to guarantee 6% for all, so that the pension of those people can be strong. Minister, I would like to point out that there is another problem. Between the discussion of our draft law and the vote, there were some developments in Flanders, which will eventually require some corrections. I am referring specifically to the decree on the integration of the OCMW into cities and mergers which has been adopted in Flanders and which has now entered into force. There were seven or eight mergers in Flanders, bringing all employees together. If we adopt this draft law as it stands and do not correct it, it may result in the payment of more for the same officials. One way or another, we will have to provide for a system of globalisation of social contributions in order to combat this problem. The problem was raised with you, among other things, by the VVSG and some other bodies, and you stated in committee that we should correct the problem with a law on various provisions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot stress enough the importance of supplementary pensions. We often have discussions here in Parliament about statutory pensions and supplementary pensions. The attention paid to the supplementary pension fits in with a larger strategy of the government and the majority to strengthen the supplementary pension for other people as well. The supplementary pension was introduced when Frank Vandenbroucke was Minister of Pensions. By some he was loved, by others much less, not only in the opposition, but also in the majority. He was a visionary minister. The Supplementary Pensions Act was passed in Parliament in 2003 by a government that had a different composition than the current government, honoring who should be honored. The Supplementary Pensions Act will be supplemented in several respects. We recently approved the system for self-employed natural persons, a few weeks ago, that they could also build a full second pillar. This reform provides a perspective for 450 000 small self-employed people and gives them the opportunity to save additional money for their pensions, with a tax incentive. Minister, we are also looking forward to the next reform, the individual free supplementary pension for employees. The government has recently instructed you to bring this draft to Parliament as soon as possible and to put it to the vote this year. Colleagues, in summary, I think it is a good design. I regret that it has taken so long to put it to Parliament for a vote. It took months to correct an anomaly from the past. It took months to give all contractual employees and civil servants what they deserve, a decent supplementary pension. We will soon adopt the draft law with great enthusiasm and conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u115	Mr President, Minister, you know that my colleague, Mrs Temmerman, has followed this dossier with great attention in the Committee on Social Affairs. Unfortunately, she cannot be here today because of a family death. So I would like to apologize to her at the beginning of this discussion. Colleagues, as my group has said on many occasions, the major problem with this government's pension policy is that we look at pensioners as a cost. People are not given any perspective and savings are made one after the other. Also with regard to the present draft, about mixed pensions, one is sick in the same bed. What's it about? As several colleagues have said, today the civil servants' pension is calculated not only on the basis of the services provided as a permanent official, but also on the basis of the services performed as a contractual servant prior to the permanent appointment. This design will put an end to that. For everyone who has been appointed after 1 December 2017, the contractual years will no longer count under the civil service system but under the employee scheme. Is this an illogical measure? Not at first sight. It seems logical that years spent as contractual staff or as employees should be taken into account for the employee's pension and that the years worked as permanent officials should be taken into account for the civil servants' pension. However, the situation is that two persons working on the same service and performing the same work will not be subject to the same pension calculation because one person was permanently appointed before 1 December 2017 and the other after 1 December 2017. In addition, there is a very serious problem with the timing and entry into force of this law, for the following reason. The Minister is aware that, as a result of the application of this law, those concerned will receive a lower statutory pension. In future, part of their careers will have a less advantageous calculation, especially for employees rather than for civil servants. For that loss, the draft law contains an exchange, and immediately also a compensation, being the supplementary pension for contractual officials. Unlike in the private sector, contractual employees in the public sector do not have access to supplementary pensions today. However, the compensation provided for, i.e. the supplementary pension, still needs to be started. The loss of statutory pension is therefore presented immediately, but compensation still needs to be started. The Council of State was also keen on the fact that those concerned are being held up with an uncertain promise to compensate for a certain loss. I quote: 'However, the mere possibility of introducing supplementary pension schemes for contractual staff creates great uncertainty as to whether that scheme will actually be implemented and, assuming that it will be there, what the material situation of the staff will be'. Whether all contractual staff will build up a supplementary pension in the short term is therefore not entirely certain. For the staff for whom this is the case, it is a fact that in most cases this pension has to be started, while the loss, due to the other calculation of the statutory pension, will take effect immediately. In this way, your government is once again creating a great deal of pension insecurity and pension uncertainty. What is certain is that the supplementary pension will not work with retroactive effect, while the loss of legal pension in many people is precisely in relation to the contractual career years built up in the past. In concrete terms, this means that a person who is permanently appointed after 15 contractual years next month is covered by this law. The 15 previous years will then be calculated as part of an employee's pension, but the person concerned will not have been able to build up any supplementary pension to compensate for that loss. The explanatory memorandum to the law did not contain any figures on this loss, and that is why our group made the simulation itself. What does that prove? D-level loses 273 euros a month. Someone at C and B levels loses about 300 euros a month. Someone with an A level loses no less than 479 euros a month. Since the Council of State had also charged that the explanation of the law did not contain numerical examples, you, Minister, were obliged to disseminate a simulation in committee anyway. This simulation proves exactly what I just said. After all, you only made simulations for those who started a career with the government on 1 January 2018. So you are not talking about the 230 contractual officials who are already here today; 230 people who, although they have already had contractual years for which they have acquired a pension, will not receive compensation through a supplementary pension. That is why our group has tabled an amendment so that this law can enter into force only for those who are at the beginning of their contractual career with the government. In this way, the loss they suffer through the law can run parallel to the build-up of a supplementary pension. However, even for those with a full supplementary pension, the situation is likely to end badly, as the Minister's simulation also shows. During the discussion in committee, the Minister explained that the government had allocated a budget for the supplementary pension of 3% for its contractual officials. He explained that the incentive for local authorities should also lead to a pension plan of 3%, only from 2021 onwards. The objective is therefore 3% of supplementary pension. If we look at the scenario of 3% in the Minister's simulation, people still lose pension compared to the current situation, from EUR 34 pension per month to even EUR 162 pension per month. That is in writing in the table you have distributed, Minister. In short, it is proposed rosy. One pretends that the loss that people are suffering is compensated by the supplementary pension. However, their own figures show that in most cases this will not be the case, not even for those who will build up a supplementary pension during their entire contractual career. Moreover, you deliberately do not mention that many, especially in the coming years, will not have built up a supplementary pension at all for their contractual performance, because it is still necessary for most of them to build up. Those people will lose a lot more. Finally, I would like to say a word about the staff of basic education. The draft we are discussing today does not apply to the staff of education. Basic education staff have been promised for years that it would be treated in the same way as teaching staff. With the present design, this proves to be an empty promise. So the people have been deceived. They are not covered by the exception for the education provided for in the draft, whereas they were always promised that. As a result, 1 400 employees will now have to reduce their pension by an average of EUR 200. Prior to the discussion in the committee, each of you received the e-mails in which they made a massive alarm. So, together with Mr Daerden, we are now retabled with the amendment to grant primary education staff the exception that will apply to education. During the committee discussion, we found that the members of CD&V, of Open Vld and even you, Minister, advocated a solution for the staff of basic education. We were therefore surprised when the amendment was not adopted. Minister, you promised a solution before the end of this year. However, new promises have not been helped by those concerned, especially since they have been given promises that have not been fulfilled since 2007. However, a real solution was simple: allow them the exception that applies to teaching staff. That is why we are again tabling our amendments today and calling on everyone, including the majority, to approve the amendment by which we give the staff of basic education the assurance to which they are entitled. I'm rounding up. We will not approve the bill. The principle may seem logical and we support the building up of a supplementary pension for contractual officials. However, by approving this draft and bringing the law into force immediately while the supplementary pension still has to be started, many people are re-retired. This is unacceptable to us, and it is certainly unacceptable to the staff of basic education, which has always been promised the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u116	Minister, the starting points of this bill are known. It was true that measures had to be taken to address the negative spiral of the increasingly late appointments of contractors to the civil service, the worsening of local public finances and the balance of the consolidated pension fund. It is also known that there is a growing imbalance between the pension expenses of statutory officials and the contributions that are paid for these same statutory officials. In this regard, we support the introduction of a mixed pension. Minister, you announced in June 2015 that you want to generalize the second pillar of pension for local government officials. On this point, we agree, provided that it is generalized. The introduction of a mixed pension must be accompanied by a solid supplementary pension. But in essence, you have not generalized a second pillar of pensions for local government officials, and that is why many of the points in your bill are problematic for us. The first is that the impact of the formula you have chosen for the agents concerned raises questions. You decide on an immediate and abrupt entry into force of the mixed pension for contract staff in office, except for those who were appointed before December 1, 2017. At the same time, there are contract agents who are sometimes far from their pensions and can potentially benefit from a second pillar. Conversely, others are potentially much closer to the date of their pension. You know as well as I do for those, a second pillar eventually introduced by the municipality or by another level of local power would obviously have an anecdotal impact on their pensions. This is a first point I want to put forward. It is true that you have provided for an exception scheme for temporary education staff. This was discussed with the Ministers of Education and a solution was found. That's a positive point. It is, however, regrettable that a solution could not be found for staff who are in the same type of situation as temporary education staff and who, however, will not be able to benefit from it. I am thinking in particular of staff in the non-market sector, such as EPA or PTP staff. The second issue in your bill is how you put this second pillar into place, which, I repeat, is not a general second pillar. We would clearly have been in favour if it had been a general second pillar. So you decided to introduce it for contract agents who are already on duty. On this point, you have repeatedly invoked the Pension Reform Commission. The latter called for the introduction of a first pillar bis – no matter what it is called – in any case, to supplement the first pillar with a capitalisation for newly recruited contract staff and in a model with a mandatory capitalisation principle. Again, it is a completely different model from the choice you made here at the government level. The third point that poses a problem to us is this so-called financial incentive – which is rather a lesser penalty – that you apply in favour of local public employers to encourage them to set up a supplementary pension scheme. It is, for us, the height of the summit since you decide not to reward those who intend to make efforts and who have already been extremely correct, those who have not abused a form of pension engineering by appointing as late as possible those who have essentially had a contractual career to benefit from an employee's pension. You decide to reward those who have made the most use of this form of pension engineering and who will benefit from this form of incentive. Conversely, those who have been most responsible and have not abused this pension engineering system will not benefit – if they have already set up a second pillar – from this incentive scheme. While, for a number of them, they will potentially increase their second pillar scheme, because of course it is quite possible to increase the contribution, and I understand that a number of them will do so. It is regrettable that these people cannot also benefit from this incentive and support for setting up or simply strengthening a second pillar for their contract agents. The choice of government is paradoxical and a real problem. There is also the question of the effectiveness of the system for which you have opted. At the very least, the actual return produced by the theoretical envelope is, at this stage, purely hypothetical in the light of what the municipalities and the agents concerned are experiencing. Finally, another aspect of your project concerns us, both for the agents in their personal capacity and for the local authorities concerned. Of course, the reality is extremely varied. That's exactly right. However, we could have had simulations of cases, of course theoretical, but which could have been modulated. Without even considering the multitude of situations, correct simulations could have been arranged. As I said, we are in favour of introducing a mixed pension in such cases, but the model we are defending differs from yours. We would have liked to have proposed a general joint pension for all the staff concerned. The aim would have been to avoid major disappointments, caused by the system you chose and based on an insufficient incentive. In addition, it will favour those who have used engineering most in terms of pensions. We believe that your choice in favour of such a model is unfair. We have re-tabled a few amendments today, although, in order to be able to propose our model, your bill had to be radically changed. It was not possible to do so through a series of amendments. For all these reasons, we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u117	Mrs. Fonck, I have listened to you very carefully. You say you would have made a different choice, a generalised system of supplementary pension for all those local officials, provincial and municipal. That's an alternative, that's right. However, will you tell me how you would finance that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u118	What alternatives have you tried to propose? What did you do? [[Communicating vases.]] This system makes it possible to be "more generous" for those who have made the most use of pension engineering. I put quotes because the incitant has its limits; the envelope is not huge. First part. The second part is that, in practice, you send the hot potato back to the local authorities, without even having taken, at some point, the trouble of bringing together all the stakeholders around the table to see what model you could possibly build through co-financing between the different parties. I would like to refer you back to the Pension Reform Commission, which had actually worked on a model allowing the generalisation of a second complementary pillar in this framework of mixed pensions and which had put forward funding assumptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u119	Mrs. Fonck, you say a lot, but at the same time you say nothing. You are replying completely alongside the issue. I asked how you are going to finance it, but you are not answering it. That's typical, too. We always get alternatives from the opposition here, but if the invoice has to be paid, they don't give at home. That's the problem. I've also been competent for pensions. The pension is a subject for which a lot can be promised, but at the end of the journey the invoice has to be paid. The system proposed by this minister is a system which is financially viable and which at the same time encourages cities and municipalities to build up or strengthen a supplementary pension. I made the exercise for our city, by the way. We have already introduced such a system. So we've already been responsible. Frankly, we have the trick with the contractual agreements that are never applied at the end of their career. My predecessors, of a different political colour, have not, by the way, done that either. The number of statutes in my city is less than 20%. In ten years' time, we will not have any statutory civil servant in the city except for the decrepital degrees. I would just like to point out which direction we are heading. The proposed system gives cities and municipalities an incentive to provide supplementary pensions for contractual officials. I think that is good and ambitious. It's heading in the right direction. Your alternative proposal for a fully supplementary pension, generalised and compulsory, sounds good, but you do not answer the question of how you will finance it. This also clearly indicates that your ambitions are not funded and substantiated. So I do not think it is an alternative at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u120	Mr President, we can talk for a very long time. Mr Van Quickenborne, what you are saying is incredible! You say that this bill proposes a model that is a financial incentive for all local authorities wishing to establish a second pillar and for those who want to strengthen their second pillar. But that's not what you do. The bill does not contain assistance applicable to all public employers; it simply provides for a reduction in the assessment of accountability paid by some local public employers. By which? By those who, in the end, have most abused the late appointment system and among whom the imbalance between civil servants' contributions and pensions is greatest. Yet the model makes sense to me. It is interesting to provide financial support for all public employers who invest in supplementary pensions, including those who already have a second pillar for their staff but would like to strengthen it by increasing contributions. But that is not what this bill provides for. You continue to present this model by explaining what it does not contain. That's not acceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u121	Mr President, Minister, we are in favour of setting up a mixed pension in the local authorities, but we cannot agree with the way you plan to do so. We need to reform the system. The practice of late appointments to receive a better pension was not financially sustainable for local authorities. The mixed pension makes it possible to combine an employee's pension corresponding to the years worked as an employee with an official's pension for the years worked as an official. This obviously implies a reduction in the overall statutory pension compared to the current system, but if this decrease is compensated by introducing a supplementary pension, this could be acceptable. However, in practice there is a great difference between the pension of contract staff and that of statutory staff. This difference is, on average, more or less EUR 1,100 per month, corresponding to EUR 13,200 per year. Depending on life expectancy, this represents an average amount of around €264,000 per agent. Failure to take this difference into account would be unfair, since these people often do the same work within local authorities. The government agreement was intended to be reassuring in this regard as it advocated a sufficient level of contribution. The ORPSS, which has since merged with ONSS, estimated that to bridge the difference between a statutory pension and that of a contractual agent, a contribution of 6% of the total wage bill would be required. While you mention a target of 6% in the development of your bill, you are only planning an incentive for a contribution of 2% of salary by 2020 and 3% by 2021. You do not guarantee a neutral operation for contract agents, on the contrary. There is no provision for back-service to correct the fact that in previous years, as a contractual person, prior to the introduction of the supplementary pension, will not be entitled to any pension supplement. In addition, the incentive chosen to encourage local authorities to set up a supplementary pension for contract staff poses a number of problems. Curiously, you have opted for a reduction in the assessment of accountability. This contribution would be reduced by the equivalent of half the cost of introducing the second pillar. It is not logical to link the introduction of an employee benefit to a reduction in contributions for civil servants. Of course, this prevents the federal government from paying out fresh money, but it is done at the expense of local authorities. We share the fear of the latter for three reasons. We are concerned about the soon-to-be-deficit situation of the Consolidated Pension Fund. The situation would be such that consideration should be given to increasing the basic contribution or accountability assessment to meet the commitments. Note that the assessment of accountability has already been significantly increased. It increased from 153 million in 2012 to 335 million in 2016. To propose a reduction in the rate to encourage local authorities to set up a second pillar for their staff is likely to aggravate the situation of the consolidated pension fund. In addition, the financial intervention promised by the Federal State in the Fund, i.e. 100 to 121 million from wage moderation, will be fixed by royal decree. In these circumstances, therefore, there is no guarantee of having all the means involved. In addition, this incentive excludes a majority of local authorities. The assessment of accountability is due only to local authorities whose contribution to the Federal Fund is less than the pension burden of their former statutory workers. They would be 39% in this case. This means that 61% of local authorities do not pay an accountability contribution and are therefore automatically excluded from the incentive. Another problem is the lack of simulation. The chosen author creates discrimination between local authorities and, in particular, between Flanders, on the one hand, and Wallonia and Brussels, on the other. The basic situation is very different between the regions. In Flanders, a sectoral agreement was concluded at the end of 2009 with a view to introducing a supplementary pension for contract workers, so that almost all Flemish municipalities have already done so. There is no sectoral agreement in Wallonia and Brussels. About 25 municipalities and CPAS have established a second pillar in Wallonia and only one municipality and one CPAS have established one in Brussels. You give them until 1 January 2020 to align with the Flemish communes. It's too time-consuming. You have planned a closed envelope of EUR 16 million for this incentive, but it is not clear how this envelope will be distributed, which is also not likely to reassure the local authorities, especially when we read in the press that almost 13 million will already go to Flanders ex officio, of which almost 8 in Antwerp. It is easy to argue in committee that the assertions that this incentive would be unfavourable to Walloon and Brussels local authorities are incorrect, since they are based on the current situation and not on the one which will prevail on the date on which the municipalities must have their pension plan in place. You could at least have provided simulations. In spite of several requests, you have not provided enough concrete analysis, in particular on the financial impact that the bill will have on local authorities. Finally, we noted a series of negative opinions about your project and, above all, the fact that you did not take it into account. Starting with the advice of the Council of State, which is very critical, including whether your project respects the division of powers. The answer is different depending on whether they are staff members of government departments, legal persons or public law, education or subordinate powers. I will not go into detail here, but I would like to give an example: according to the Council of State, the Communities and Regions are not competent to lay down rules on pensions for members of their staff, whether permanent, temporary or auxiliary. Moreover, according to the Council of State, the Federal Government cannot take measures which would result in "the conditions for granting and calculating the pension no longer applying to the staff of the Communities and the Regions the same rules as those applicable to the staff of the State". This does not seem to disturb the majority, but one can imagine the conflicts that this project is likely to generate. We also point out the small number of cases you have made of the unanimous negative opinion of ORPSS and that of the Union of Cities and Municipalities. The three Brussels, Walloon and Flemish associations have expressed their opposition to your project. Their criticisms relate to the proposed incentive, as it is only a redistribution of burdens and "local authorities already enjoying some solidarity on the part of other local authorities – despite the accountability levy, they contribute less to the financing of the system than to the costs they incur – would still receive a bonus, while those who contribute to solidarity do not receive any incentives". The three associations should have been your privileged partners in the search for a balanced solution. They have also formulated alternatives, such as a reduction in the overall pension bill (basic assessment and accountability assessment) or a decrease in the accountability bill by a lower percentage, and a longer adjustment period. Finally, by a motion on a conflict of interest, the Assembly of the French Community Commission has declared that its interests are seriously affected by your bill and has called for consultation. It was held on 24 January and could not reach a solution as the majority was inflexible. For all these reasons, Minister, we will not vote on this bill. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u122	Mr President, Comrade Raoul Hedebouw spoke in committee on this project and I am speaking in plenary, in my capacity as representative of the people, but also as an elder.... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u123	Yes, but there are representatives of the people and there are representatives of the great capital on the right hand side.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u124	(...) representatives of the people! We must stop judging others!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u125	Go on, Mr. Van Hees!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u126	I speak in my capacity as a representative of the people, but also as a former trade union delegate of the Civil Service. As such, I can say that the cohabitation of appointed and unappointed staff is a serious problem. And the draft before us today will further exacerbate the problem, since it finally introduces a double penalty. In fact, a contract agent is already deprived of certain rights during his career and if he is appointed during his career, he will also be deprived of part of his pension, when he is retired. The fundamental question that is going through this whole debate is whether the harmonization of our pension systems should be revised downwards or upwards. To do this, let us compare the Belgian situation with that of neighbouring countries! Belgian public pensions are in the European average. On the other hand, Belgian private pensions are among the lowest in Europe. The government's stance is to harmonise downwards, so that Belgian public pensions are also among the lowest in Europe. That's what we call levelling down. We can say: "Pensioners of the private, you are poor but console yourself, soon the pensioners of the public will also be poor like you!" The aim of this project is, I quote, "to put an end to administrative jurisprudence which, under certain conditions, involves taking into account the services provided as contract workers with a public employer in the calculation of a pension for the public sector. As long as these services are followed by a permanent appointment, these services will now be taken into account in the employee pension scheme." The objective is clear. It is posted and admitted: it is to reduce the amount of the pension of persons who enter into the account. On the contrary, the PTB advocates maintaining what allowed people with mixed careers to benefit from upward harmonisation. This project also creates a difference in treatment, as noted by the Council of State, which warned against the unequal treatment introduced between appointed staff with the same length of service at the end of their careers, depending on whether or not those years have been provided, in part, as members of the contract staff. For example, an agent who has been appointed at the age of 50 will receive a pension of EUR 200 less than that of his or her colleague appointed at the age of 40. This is only for a difference of ten years! It is assumed that for a greater difference, the loss can be two or three times higher. The project also aims to encourage municipalities to organise a second pillar. I prefer the expression "privatisation of pensions" rather than the expression of second pillar, which is an understatement. Your project wants to reward the municipalities that have already done so financially. Here, too, we create a difference in treatment. Some contractors will receive a supplementary pension, others will not. In addition, municipalities with a second pillar will be encouraged through a reduction in their contribution to the consolidated pension fund of provincial and local governments. This decline in income will have to be offset by the poorest municipalities, which are not in a position to establish a second pillar. As a result, they will have to pay more, while the richest will benefit from lower financial burdens. Who is poorer will be punished, who is richer will be rewarded. It's true that it's a little the trademark of this government... Finally, in this new system, funding from the Fund will decrease as local authorities organize the second pillar. In addition, the municipalities will have to bear the financial burden of the pensions of their staff members alone. This model is not sustainable in the long run. A second pillar is bad for solidarity, because we are forced to save in a commune, not a solidarised fund. With this project, the government is launching – it must be remembered – an umpteenth attack on pensions in general and on public pensions in particular, which are specifically targeted by this government. Let us recall the measures against the bonus-board, against the bonus for diploma or against the tantèmes! The objective is clearly to reduce the amount of the public pension. The government has chosen to make considerable savings to the detriment of pensioners, while it does not take any initiative to combat tax fraud organized by and for the most affluent. We have heard earlier, during the question of time, the Prime Minister defends a rich fraudster and justifies his retention on the Strategic Committee for the National Investment Pact. Adding up all these measures, the public pension will fall by hundreds of euros per month. To earn less, the public sector worker will have to work longer. What a beautiful society you're building us there! As is the case every time you attack pensions, you obviously invoke the phenomenon of ageing. However, according to the Commission for Study on Ageing, in 2060 we will pay the same pension level as Austria or France as a percentage of GDP. Pensions are therefore perfectly financial, but this implies other tax and social choices. A redistribution of wealth, as proposed by the Pension Reform Commission, makes it possible to maintain public pensions at their current level and to increase the low pensions of employees and small self-employed people so that we are no longer the poor parent of Europe in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u127	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat the technical details of the impact of this bill. My colleague Daerden did so remarkably at the beginning of the debate. It must be noted that, as too often, this government changes the rules of the game in the course of the game. I am not against structural pension reform. However, I am waiting for the list of difficult jobs. But on the merits, I agree. However, changing the principle of calculating a pension during a career will affect many local government workers and employees, including many women. I insist on that point. They are not responsible for the fact that many years have not been called in cities and municipalities, despite local negotiations. Minister, it would have been more appropriate to create extinction frameworks with safeguard clauses for the careers started. For that reason, I will not vote in favour of your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u128	Mr President, this draft law has two objectives: to guarantee, in the longer term, the financing of pensions granted to local civil servants, and to encourage public sector employers to offer a second pillar to their contractual staff. The draft law provides for the introduction of a mixed pension which has been requested for many years by the various associations of cities and municipalities to fight against the practice of late appointments which significantly increase local pension costs. The practice of late appointments has worsened over recent years. The average age of appointments by local authorities continues to increase. Mr Daerden, personally I voted for the reform of local government pensions on 24 October 2011. When the then minister proposed this pension reform, we voted for it because we found it useful. There was a need to empower the communes. The spirit was the same. But the Minister of Pensions at the time knew that would not be enough. As a result, its 2011 Act provided that, as of January 1, 2017, a reassessment should be introduced beyond the accountability assessment - a regularization contribution. That's what's happening. Today, we see that if we do not fundamentally reform the system, we go into the wall! To such an extent that all the forecasts of contributions, without reform, are catastrophic for the municipalities. I have heard a number of people, who are obviously not aware of the system, say that this reform will significantly increase the cost to the municipalities. No! It is with the current law, without reform, that this will happen. The Federal Pension Service's forecasts are clear in this regard. If the Act is not amended, the basic contribution will increase from 41.5 per cent to 47 per cent; accountability will increase from 50 per cent to 95 per cent. The reform makes it possible to curb this development considerably and, therefore, to alleviate the future burden on the municipalities. We mustn't reverse things. Therefore, the interest of the reform is obvious. We can agree more or less on the modalities. A Nobel laureate said that if you want to prevent a project from moving forward, you just have to demand that it be perfect. It's known. But that is not the way to work, in my opinion. On the contrary, we must try to improve and, if possible, participate in progress. That's what we're doing today. I would remind you once again that if we applied the regularisation contribution, it would be a new and very strong burden for the municipalities. And the only way to avoid it is by no longer naming because the appointment would cost far too much. I'm not necessarily against it. The trend is to contract-making, as we know. If we continue this upward line, which shows the increase in contract workers in municipalities and CPAS, at some point there is no appointment at all. That is the result: no more appointments at all! It should not be said that this project will damage contractors because, in fact, contractors would no longer be appointed. Some municipalities have been precursors in this regard. Like the municipality of the former Minister of Pensions in Ans, for example, in which 95% of the staff are contract workers and 5% of the statutory staff. There have been no appointments in 20 years. Many socialist communes in the Liège region have not been calling for 20 years! Do not come to say that, suddenly, we would prevent you from appointing, or that contract workers would no doubt be appointed! That's not true! By offering a second pillar to contract workers, their pension is increased. And you make it look like we want to reduce it when you know you can't name them anymore. It's an intellectual scam, a swindle of reasoning. We must return to a certain reality. I would also like to respond to the argument that the Walloon municipalities would be transferred to the Flemish municipalities. They're bluffs! It is true that 73% of the local authorities in Flanders benefit from a second pillar, but there are only 15% of the local authorities in Flanders today that meet the conditions of the author. Between these two percentages, there is a difference. Why? Because most and even almost all current pension plans are below the minimum of 2%. Moreover, many municipalities are not responsible in the Flemish local authorities today; they cannot benefit from the incentive, since it should be deducted from an accountability levy that does not exist. We have to stop telling anything. I ask you a minimum of seriousness when we analyse a reform of this magnitude. One can thus hold reasonings that are based on completely false assumptions. I think there is a need for a minimum of intellectual honesty when dealing with this issue. I would also point out, and this is important, that for the first time in thirty years, the federal government will be involved in the financing of local government pensions. This will not be done for any amount. It was said that the accountability assessment now amounts to $335 million. Over one-third of all accountability assessments will be funded by the federal government. This is 121 million. Mr Daerden tells us that this is a fair return and that it is normal for the Regions to do so. If this is really normal, I wonder what the ten successive socialist ministers who have headed the Ministry of Pensions since 1985 have done. The reality is that we are making an extremely important contribution to the financing of local pensions, which had never been done in the previous 30 years. It's a first. It seems to me important to stress this and I hope that everyone welcomes it because it will indeed help the local authorities in this context. I support the generalization of supplementary pensions, Mrs Fonck. Not by way of stupid and stupid opposition to the legal pension, it is not about that. Those who oppose the statutory pension to the supplementary pension are completely wrong in the debate. On the contrary, when it comes to "additional" pensions, it means that they are complementary. To what? To the legal pension. This is, moreover, the only reasonable way, today, to actually gradually increase the pension replacement rate in our country. And so we have to generalize them. This is what we have just done with the self-employed in person. This is also what will be done later with employees who are not currently entitled to the supplementary pension - 30 % of them are still in this case. And that's what we do today with public service contractors. That is why two of the three unions approved this project in Committee A. It is not by chance! They know that it is an improvement in the status and future pension of contract workers; that is the reality. The CSC-ACV and the Liberal Union approved this project in Committee A because they know that in the long run this will increase the pension of contract workers and reduce an injustice that currently exists between contract workers and public servants who sometimes do exactly the same work in, sometimes, the same offices. This injustice had to be truly taken into account and reduced. That is what we are doing today and I would like to thank those who support this project for taking responsibility. Because it is true that reform always raises questions. We could also do nothing, but I think it would be dramatic for the communes. I understand the remarks made in relation to the inciting which is proposed, but what is the purpose of this? It's just that it's no longer useful, at some point. In essence, the inciting is for me transient. On the day when everyone will have a second pillar with minimum rates of 2% or 3%, in 2020-2021, there will no longer be a need for incentives. We work in a closed volume and from the moment everyone enters the supplementary pension system for his contractors, there is no need for an incentive. The inciter bears his name well: it is done to stimulate and ensure that everyone enters the second pillar system for public service contractors who, in my view, have the right, deserve it and must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u129	Minister, thank you. We do not agree with all of your answers. I'll come back to a few things. First of all, these are balivers when we talk about a transfer between Walloon, Brussels and Flemish communes. I hear only one argument on this point: that there are only 15% who meet the criteria and not 70% because they are below 2% and they have already made an effort and because some are not responsible. You do not question the principle that we criticize, you say that the amount we advance is not fair. A slip, a transfer, there's one! You say that it will be only 15% of the communes. 15% of the Flemish communes are still a lot!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u130	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u131	There is no incentive, but they have already funded a second 2% pillar. And 60 per cent already finance a second pillar between 0 and 2 per cent. This means that there are sums that are already spent without the inciting being there. They will have a boon effect because they will have a discount on their bill. That's what we're saying: since it's a common pot, there's a slide. What you have put forward may call into question the amounts communicated by the Federal Pension Service at some point in time T. But even if it is not exactly that amount, the principle exists and could have been avoided without this bounty effect. First element. Second, it is the first time in 30 years that the federal government has financed the solidarity fund. I don't think the expression is good. It is true that this is the first time in 30 years, as I pointed out at the beginning, that the contributions levied on the salary bill of the appointees will fall into the pot to pay the pensions of the appointees. That's it, actually. For the first time, it will fall into the right pot. But it cannot be said that the federal government is generous and finances the appointees. These are two different things. I recognize that this is the first time, but it should not be said that it is an alternative funding by the federal government for pensions of local government appointees. Thirdly, you say that the 2001 law was useful. I'm glad to hear you say that. I know you supported him at the time, but it's even better by saying it in plenary. I would like to highlight this point. I had not followed closely the debates and the drafting of the law, but I believe that the minister at the time feared that this would not be sufficient and definitive. That's why I called it a "transitional solution" earlier. It is true that the legislator of the time believed that with the regularization fee, the local authorities would adopt a wise attitude, with more appointments. It didn't happen. As I said in my speech, we have to see. There was therefore a need for a solution. Without a solution, it was a disaster. You have mentioned the evolution of rates, 41-47, 50-95 and the fact that your system will significantly curb this evolution. There is indeed EUR 121 million. We just talked about it. In addition, there is a change in the payment, by anticipating and monthlyizing it, etc. This actually amounts to being paid by the municipalities and increasing their budget. Then there's your mixed pension system that will lighten the system. Here are the figures you quoted in committee: €3 million impact in 2019, €5 million in 2020 and €7 million in 2021. It is not these 7 million that will significantly curb the rates. Either the rates were overvalued, or they won't change significantly thanks to your $7 million in 2021. I don't think the element you're putting forward corresponds at all to reality. Finally, you talk about the generalization of the second pillar and your affection for it. We are not against a second pillar. We are not ideologically opposed to the second pillar. We believe that contractors deserve a second pillar and have a higher pension. It is our daily struggle to increase the pension for each other. Simply put, the second pillar is useful and interesting if it meets criteria of social equity, generalisation, if it ensures a real return, in other words if it is effective – this is not always the case, especially in view of the charges levied and the rates currently in force – and, finally, if it is not to the detriment of the first pillar. The first pillar should not be reduced to feed the second pillar. In this case, that is the case. So here's a whole series of things we're challenging.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u132	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u133	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2718/11) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2718/11) The title was amended by the Commission in draft Law on the non-inclusion of services performed as a non-permanent staff member for a public-sector pension, amending the individual accountability of the provincial and local authorities within the Consolidated Pension Fund, adapting the rules on supplementary pensions, amending the modalities of financing the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities and additional financing of the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities.' The title has been amended by the Commission into a Bill on the Non-Appropriation of Services as Unappointed Personnel in a Public Sector Pension, amending the individual accountability of provincial and local governments within the Consolidated Pension Fund, adapting the regulation of supplementary pensions, amending the funding arrangements for the Consolidated Pension Fund of provincial and local governments and providing additional funding for the Consolidated Pension Fund of provincial and local governments." The draft law has 30 articles. The bill has 30 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u134	Art. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... • 24 - Karin Temmerman cs (2718/12) • 26 - Frédéric Daerden cs (2718/12) • 27 - Catherine Fonck (2718/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u135	• 25 - Karin Temmerman cs (2718/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u136	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u137	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u138	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2952: Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Stéphane Crusnière, Els Van Hoof, Georges Dallemagne, Benoit Hellings, Annemie Turtelboom, Karin Temmerman, An Capoen, Olivier Maingain, Peter Luykx - 2450: Stéphane Crusnière, Georges Dallemagne, Benoit Hellings, Olivier Maingain, Gwenaëlle Grovonius - 2636: Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, An Capoen, Els Van Hoof, Annemie Turtelboom, Georges Dallemagne, Benoit Hellings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u139	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to the proposals of the resolution. I propose that you devote a single discussion to these motions for resolutions. Ladies and gentlemen, before I open the debate, I would like to welcome the representatives of the metisses community in our country who have had to wait a long time for this discussion. This demonstrates the interest and importance of our resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u140	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2952/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2952/6) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Miller, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel honoured to have been appointed rapporteur of the motion for a resolution on the segregation suffered by the Métis from Belgian colonization in Africa. This motion for a resolution has been tabled by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau and others, as the President has just pointed out. This proposal concerns an event still little known in the history of colonial Belgium and for cause, since this history of colonial Belgium has long been banned from school curricula in our country. This event is the forced displacement and adoption of Métis children during the decolonization of the Belgian Congo and the Ruanda-Urundi. These displacement operations were in line with the segregation policy applied in the Belgian colonies and mandates in Africa. The authorities placed the children born to a white father and a black mother in "ad hoc" institutions, the most famous of which, as you know, is Save, where these children were given "adapted" education. So hear that word well. What does it mean? This means that it was a hybrid education, better than that for black children, but less good than that for white children. It was impressive when we worked in committee and all these elements were brought to our attention. During the wars of independence, Belgium, fearing reprisals against these children, decided with the help of the Church to reunite some 800 children and send them to Europe, to be placed in institutions or in foster families, in networks close to the ecclesiastical authorities. These children were taken from their biological mother and the vast majority of them were given new names. This explains the importance of the problem of access to archives, so that these people can regain their true identity and, where possible, their family members. I will not detail the content of the resolution adopted by the committee in order to leave the authors with the care and pleasure of presenting this text, which, as you have understood, is of great importance to the people concerned. It is imperative that this report include some excerpts from the hearings which have been held in committee and which we have attended. These have been the occasion of moments marked by a lot of emotion and pain. You will read in the written report the details of these hearings, and in particular, I quote myself: "The draft of a Belgian colonial doctrine concerning the Métis and the Metisage." I'm reading a few excerpts from this doctrine. This is not the point of view of a few. It is important to understand it. This has been transformed into a true doctrine, a genuine State policy. In 1913, Joseph Pholien, the prime minister, said: "By the very nature of things, the Métis enjoy the qualities and suffer the tares of the two races they represent. Influenced by the white element, they will have for the race of color a real contempt. They will have hatred for the white race, in which they will never be admitted on an equal footing. Hence, disdaining their mother and detesting their father, they seem to justify the following endad: 'God made the white man and the black man, the devil made the mestizo'. Without exception, the Métis will therefore be unmoral and, therefore, they are to be feared. Métis people are therefore an element that can quickly become dangerous. It is important to seek to reduce the number." I recall that this is a quote from Joseph Pholien, who will one day be Prime Minister. One year later, Father Arthur Vermeersch also said: "To take a black concubine, one suffers a defeat. A few pretexts can be added to color this capitulation. To color it, yes, but of what color? Isn't it a shame to accept prevarication to gain the temporal benefits? We're not dealing with duty. Christian honor is a military honour. He tells us to die rather than surrender to the enemy." The sentence is rather twisted, but it means that, for a white, it is not acceptable to take a black concubine. I mean, a scientist was missing. In 1930, Pr. Pierre Nolf, who taught at the University of Liège and was also Minister of Arts and Science, wrote: "A mulatto is the depository of white and black characters juxtaposed, but between which no fusion takes place. At no point in its individual existence did paternal chromosomes contract with mothers other than those in the neighbourhood. My intimate conviction, drawn from the study of the laws of inheritance, is that it is important to discourage - or even to prevent - marriages between whites and blacks in the Congo or in this country by all possible means. These unions are generally not happy for those who contract them. They produce Métis who, not of either race, form an unstable and discontented social element. They are a serious threat to the future of the white race, which will remain capable of fulfilling the civilizing mission only if it preserves the quality of its blood." I'm not making up, I'm reading! A Belgian scientist, who will be Minister of Arts and Science, made this statement in the 1930s. Despite the warnings I have just read to you – and there are others that I recommend you read in the report – the number of Métis children has continued to grow. This is confirmed by one of the great thinkers of anti-colonialism, the author of the book Les damnés de la terre, Frantz Fanon. He writes in Black Skin, white masks: "White being the master and being more simply the male, he can afford the luxury of sleeping with many women. This is true in all countries. But this is of course much more true in the colonies. Therefore, without marriage or cohabitation between Whites and Blacks, the number of Métis is extraordinary. It's because white women sleep with black maids." I must point out that, in a few cases, children have been recognized by their biological father and that marriages have been contracted between white and black men. But there were infinitely few. On the other hand, as you can read in the recitals in the motion for a resolution, some had entered into a customary marriage. But these marriages were never legalized by the Belgian colonial state when they should have been legalized. I would also like to point out that on April 25, 2017, the Bishop of Antwerp apologized for the Catholic Church's share of the suffering inflicted on the Métis. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution, of which you see all the importance, has been the subject of extensive work by the Commissioners representing the various political groups in our House. The will was to move forward in a consensual way. Two motions for resolutions originally tabled were unified. The text has also been the subject of numerous amendments by both the majority and the opposition. The whole motion for a resolution calling for the Belgian Government to recognize publicly and solemnly Belgium's responsibility in this situation and to present an apology, as amended and corrected, was adopted unanimously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u142	Thank you for this excellent report, Mr Miller.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u143	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, who are still present and who have waited, as the President said, for many hours, thank you for your presence. As a mother, the subject we are discussing today is of particular concern to me. For that is what it is about: the suffering of mothers and fathers separated from their children and the suffering of children separated from their roots. This suffering was very noticeable during the commission, during the hearings and during the screening of a film. There was still emotion among some participants. I would also like to welcome the context in which this work was carried out with dignity and respect. All the work (committees, hearings, amendments) on the examination of this sensitive and painful subject, particularly for those who have been victims of it, has been truly marked by respect for the situation. I would particularly like to thank my colleagues, and Stéphane Crusnière, whose cooperation has been extremely active in drawing up this text which we are going to vote on earlier and which has been unanimously approved in the Committee on External Relations. A subject such as the one that was widely described in the report – and I thank Mr Miller – indeed deserved the greatest consensus. Why? It must be stressed that this kind of recognition in our country is an act that is not annoyed because of its rarity and symbolic strength. Therefore, the act we are putting forward today is a strong act, a rare act, and it deserves us to pay attention to it. In a few words, I would like to return to you, but this has already been done, the context of the events in question. It should be recalled that Belgium, like the other colonial powers, had introduced a policy of racial segregation within its overseas possessions. However, apartheid was not comparable to that in South Africa or British Rhodesia, or even in the United States until the 1960s in some states. This segregation regime has often been described as "soft apartheid", in that it creates intermediate categories in law and prerogatives within non-white populations, including the Métis, and according to criteria that were not exclusively of race, but also of education. The move of children from Africa to Belgium referred to in the proposal, since it is Save, which is mainly referred to, took place in this context. As my colleague told you, the colonial authorities had become accustomed to placing the children born to a white father and a black mother – the opposite was much rarer – in particular institutions, such as Save in Rwanda, where they received an education adapted to their status, that is, hybrid between the one offered to whites and the one given to black children. During the independences, fearing for their safety and in order to provide them with a quality education, Belgium, in collaboration with the Catholic Church, which managed the majority of the institutions in which they were placed, decided to gather in Save several hundred Métis children from Rwanda, Ruanda-Urundi and Kivu, and to send them to Europe to place them either in institutions or in host families often close to the ecclesiastical authorities. In this process, what happens? Many children lose their identity papers and birth certificates, often because the Belgian authorities or their representatives act in haste – voluntarily or otherwise – leading to the loss of their original nationality. And this "misleading", because we speak at the time of "misleading the identity" of these children, was used to forge a new identity that obviously made it possible to facilitate the adoption of these children by Belgian or European or even American families. All this took place in the denial of the rights of biological mothers who remain in Africa and whose identification remains, for some, a challenge today. It should be noted, however, that for some Métis children, their father had recognized them when they came from a union with a Rwandan, Burundian or Congolese mother. And today, our assembly will recognize the facts. We also call on and urge the government to implement several actions allowing at least partial reparation – we cannot make full reparation – to persons who have suffered, in one way or another, the actions of these Belgian authorities, in the circumstances just developed. Belgium cannot relieve itself of its responsibility towards people who are its citizens today. As I said, some of these children have been deprived of their Belgian nationality and have faced many administrative problems. It is therefore important, and this is part of their demands, that their situation be regularized so that they are fully recognized as members of the national community that is ours and theirs. Finally, I would like to stress that we cannot remain inactive in the face of this human tragedy which has led to the family separation generated by this transfer to Europe. Both through the opening of the archives and through the intervention of our contacts in the Great Lakes region, it is necessary to facilitate the identification of African biological mothers and the bringing into contact with their children of those who are still alive. This is all the more important as time is running out since independence is over 60 years old. The course of life has not waited for us, so we must act quickly. We would also like to rule out, as far as possible, the remaining shadows about the sources and the evidence available. That is why we ask that CETESOMA be entrusted with carrying out studies complementary to those already carried out, in particular concerning the responsibility of our own authorities in these circumstances, in order to paint as accurate a picture as possible of a situation which cannot be reduced to the situation in Save, since we have learned that there were other places where such events had occurred. We believe it is important for the government to be able to publicly and solemnly acknowledge Belgium's responsibility in this situation and to apologize for the shortcomings which it and its representatives were able to demonstrate on this occasion. I think our country will grow up if it looks at its past in front of it. We must be able to tell Métis citizens that their long ignored aspirations and suffering are being heard today. This is the order of restorative justice. And in all these matters, the whole committee acted with empathy. Of course, we must be careful and take into account the fact that the circumstances of the time were different from those of today. The reality was complex. Linear conclusions should not be drawn from such a situation. Through this resolution, we have tried to give the most appropriate answer to such a complicated situation. Minister, I invite you to be our representative to the government in the task we entrust to him. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your overwhelming support for this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I was 18 and had to choose a course of study, I chose medicine. I found the idea of lifelong learning combined with science extremely interesting. A few years ago, I ended up as a miracle in Parliament, and here too, we can learn something every day. This motion for a resolution has also taught me something, a piece of history that I have not been familiar with so far. I'm not proud that I've had to learn that now either. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs de Coster-Bauchau as the initiator of the motion for a resolution, which taught me this wise history lesson. The contents are hallucinating. There aren't many words for it. Fortunately, the rapporteur and the main proposer have already discussed the content of the proposal in detail, so I can keep it limited. Of course, in colonial times children were born of Belgian fathers and African mothers. Those children were taken away in many, not to say most cases from their mother and placed in institutions. What was in the Belgian state? As a mother, as a woman, as a human being, that's hard to place, yet it's done. At the time of independence, even a thousand children were brought to Belgium and offered for adoption here or housed in institutions. For some reason, the Belgian State thought that these children were a threat and they were afraid of them. That's hallucinating. It is difficult to imagine now, but such practices have been and even have been organized by the State. That had disastrous consequences. The children concerned, now 60s and 70s, lost almost everything, not only their roots, their families, but also their mother and father, whom they have often never known. On top of that they often lost their name, because it was changed when they were brought here. Also their date of birth was often impossible to trace, let alone that they had the right papers, documents or documents. The search for their roots, which they can hardly find, continues. They still feel the consequences of these practices. There are problems with nationality. Some even became stateless when they returned to their homeland in search of their families. There are also problems with missing birth certificates. This, of course, creates problems in marriage, because then they cannot submit the required documents. We have started with two motions for resolutions. Eventually, the text was streamlined by hearings and numerous conversations with people from the association Metissen of Belgium, who are currently in the audience. I thank them for the fact that they are still here, because it has taken a long time. Majority and opposition have therefore rewritten the motion for a resolution together. It is good that there is broad support for this, because the problem concerns us all. The text seeks to recognise the suffering that has been caused in the past. I will confine myself to asking the government for the most important points from the whole row. For example, we want a procedure to deal with the persistent problems of nationality and a solution to the problems of birth and marriage. We also ask for the cooperation of the embassies and for access to the colonial archives for the detection of parents and family members. If necessary, these archives should be declassified. There must also be contact with religious orders so that the victims can also have access to these archives. The N-VA Group supports this motion for a resolution and will approve it in its entirety.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u145	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this text illustrates, if necessary, that our country's memory work on many issues is far from complete. This work must be pursued with conviction and voluntarism. In view of its expertise, its past and its scientific and other resources, the federal state has a real leadership role to play. It is in particular the purpose of this text that concludes the substantive work that we have carried out, like several federated parliaments that have launched the movement, a movement that I wanted to continue at the federal level by filing, together with several opposition colleagues, a first text in May 2017, before being joined, several months later, by the majority. The important thing is that these texts have made it possible to launch a debate and hold substantive hearings in our committee. These hearings identified concrete problems and equally concrete answers that could be adopted, even first by the federal authority, but also by the federal authorities in good intelligence. I would therefore like once again to welcome my colleague Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, with whom I have been able to work towards a new joint text incorporating the specificities of our two texts, but also the amendments tabled by several colleagues and the conclusions of our hearings. I would also like to commend the services and the chairman of the committee for their speed of drafting, which has made it possible to speed up our work. Finally, I would particularly like to thank the Métis Association of Belgium for its constructive cooperation in drafting this resolution, as well as all the other organisations and persons who spoke at the hearings. Such a memorial question requires the greatest possible political support far beyond the classic caesure between majority and opposition. It is therefore this common text of consensus co-signed by both the majority and the opposition that is on our bench today. On this basis and without wishing to repeat my colleague's excellent contextual intervention, I would like to return to the substance of this text and the concrete actions that we will be entrusting to the government. The unacceptable discrimination suffered by the Métis from Belgian colonization in Africa was often regarded as a taboo subject in Belgium. A taboo that has led to many open wounds, both in the head of the parents and the children concerned, as the hearings showed. However, thousands of children are mentioned here, Métis born of the union between white men stationed in the Congo and Ruanda-Urundi, and Rwandan, Burundian or Congolese mothers. These children were called "mulattres" at the time. A phenomenon of such magnitude as the colonial authorities as well as the Belgian State considered it a real problem or even a threat, and addressed it in a specific way. The decision was then taken: these children were to be systematically abducted from their mothers and reared by Belgian religious in orphanages or residential schools, usually away from whites and blacks. Thus, the boarding school of the Marist Brothers for the "mulattres" in Byimana, and the institution for "mulattres" in Save, of the Catholic mission of the Missionary Sisters of Notre-Dame d'Afrique, ("white sisters"), are notable examples at the origin of many testimonies. In 1959, just before independence, the Belgian State organized the sending of a large number of these children to Belgium, where they were placed under guardianship, placed in foster homes, in homes, or adopted by Belgian families. This is the story of hundreds of children torn from their mothers, of separate fratries, but also of loss of identity due to different changes in first name, surname and even date of birth. It is also an unknown story that has resurfaced thanks to the commitment of the Métis and their descendants, the work of researchers and the commitment of certain policies. I am thinking of the various resolutions that were adopted in the Council of the French Community Commission, in the Senate, in the Parliament of the French Community, and the public apologies of the Flemish Parliament, which were presented to the victims of forced adoptions, with the complicity of the Catholic Church between 1960 and 1980. Faced with this terrible story, it will never be possible to heal all wounds, but alas, this is no reason to justify any status quo. Time passes, and it is pressing for political, scientific, symbolic and administrative actions to be undertaken. This should be coordinated actions, all the more necessary in a federal Belgium where several competences are divided between the different levels of power. While progress has been made in this area of adoption competence, particularly in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, it is essential that each competent level of authority specifically address the issue of the key issue in relation to memory work. I would like to conclude with the most salient elements of the text. It contains an important request: to examine the possibility, within the framework of Belgian legislation, of setting up a procedure for granting or returning Belgian nationality to Métis persons, and to take the necessary measures to resolve the remaining problems related to their birth and marriage certificates. It is also essential for the Métis to be able to count on the cooperation of the Belgian diplomatic posts in order to identify their biological parents. Similarly, access to archives is essential. It would be desirable to devote more resources to archiving and research, as the hearings have clearly shown. I stress this point when we see how this government is putting federal scientific resources, yet valuable, in jeopardy, both in terms of budgets and structures. I will therefore pay particular attention to this point. Consideration should also be given to how the Métis concerned can obtain moral and administrative redress for the injustices to which they have been subjected. In addition, the motion for a resolution calls for a commemorative stele to be erected in recognition of the suffering of the Métis. It is also up to the federal authority to ensure the coordination of all necessary initiatives, including those of the federated entities, in order to ensure coherence and to put into music all the good will and initiatives so that the concrete obstacles highlighted by our hearings are removed. They can't stay. Finally – and perhaps I should have started with this – with the adoption of our text, our Assembly will take a strong step by formally recognizing the targeted segregation of the Métis under the colonial administration of the Belgian Congo and Ruanda-Urundi until 1962 and following decolonization, as well as the policy of forced abductions. If we cannot, of course, be content with the symbols – and it is in this sense that a series of concrete demands are made to the government, which has the levers – I think that their weight should not be underestimated either. It is these same symbols that must play a leading role in finally enabling our country, in all its components, to dare to open and bring to fruition an indispensable memory work on some dark pages of our history. Dark pages that have often led to many human sufferings and tears. Let us never forget that this memory is a wealth that must guide our citizen and political actions so that the "never again" will find an echo when time passes and we forget. He's watching our societies and threatening our lives together. I thank you for your attention and, I hope, for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution before us deals with a subject which is still very sensitive to many people. In all of us who have taken part in the hearings and discussions, it has unleashed the necessary emotions. It is our moral duty to acknowledge that what the metises experienced during the colonial period was inhumane. Think of the different stories we've heard about the far-reaching segregation, in which metish children were plucked away from their environment, separated from their mother, brothers and sisters, were forced to be adopted or isolated, and that because they were so difficult to imagine we were a threat. Our group also wishes to express its support for the apology for the suffering that the metises have suffered. It is precisely because of the high sensitivity of this issue that we have constantly made efforts to reach a resolution supported by the association of metises. Respect and recognition for their suffering for our party have always been central, both in the Senate and in the Chamber. Doesn't everyone want to be seen, heard and known as a full human being, and be given the opportunity to search all the pieces of his identity together? The text before you now demands not only understanding and recognition for the metises and their families, but also the ability to actually reconstruct the personal history of each of these victims. That is our wish, so that they can be recognized and restored. The great strength of this resolution, to which we have all contributed, is that we have reached a consensus across all political groups. This resolution is the culmination of all regional parliaments and of the Senate. For us, it is important that we offer victims one global, personal, legal, material and historical solution. At the time, CD&V tabled a whole series of amendments, which were accepted everywhere. I'm suggesting the most important one we'll find in the questions to the government. It concerns a detailed historical study of the role of the civil and ecclesiastical authorities in the treatment of metises in the colonial period in the Belgian Congo and Rwanda-Burundi. In addition, as a CD&V, we have emphasised in the questions to the government the importance of an inventory of all the personal files of the metises. It should be possible to establish links, especially when dealing with numerous name changes or misspelled spellings of names. In addition, in the questions to the government, CD&V argues that the government should establish the necessary contacts to ensure that the archives of religious congregations or other associations located in Rome would be made accessible. In this way the metisse children can have access to their personal files. Finally, I would like to say that this resolution is, of course, receiving our full support. For CD&V this is only a successful example of cocreation when it does not remain a dead letter. From this resolution, the federal government must take concrete action to restore the children of colonization or the metises. We in our group will monitor this closely. Thank you for your cooperation. We hope that action will be taken from the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, representatives of the metisses community, I would like to welcome you to the hemisphere. Ladies and gentlemen, the resolution before us today is an important historical debt of the Belgian State and society, namely the way in which the metisse children have been treated and the way in which they have to date been affected. The children born out of relations between African women and white men in the former Belgian colonies were regarded by the Belgian government as a disgrace and a problem. African women who had a traditional African marriage to a white man were not recognized as a full-fledged family. The fathers who persisted and wanted to raise their children as part of the family were made miserable by the colonial government. The children were considered illegal and called narrowing half-breeds, mulates and children of sin. These are names that still cause a great deal of pain for the meteorological community. Colleagues, those kids in the colonies didn't get a chance at a normal life. They were expelled from schools, taken away from the mother, forced into institutions and transferred to Belgium or to other parts of Europe on the eve of independence, to families and boarding homes as well as to orphanages, boarding schools and institutions for children with disabilities. Often brothers and sisters were separated from each other and all contact with, or even knowledge of, their parents was made impossible. The recognition of the historical injustice done to these children has for too long ignored the Belgian State. The rights these children had or the rights of their African mothers were irrelevant. In the eyes of the colonial state, these children were just a problem to treat, a disgrace to hide. This historical injustice has had an unbearable impact on the lives of hundreds of people. Families were torn apart and found each other to this day. These children, as adults, 60 years after date, have found their back dish and their pride. They now appeal to us to think about the consequences of colonization for the whole community. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is extremely important that we have listened to those involved in the Chamber. During the hearing, the metises in Belgium with roots in Congo, Rwanda and Burundi, which are closely linked to Belgian society and history, could testify about their lives in the Chamber and the Senate. They were deeply personal testimonies that did not leave any group untouched. This resolution, supported by Parliament and jointly by opposition and majority, is a moral duty for the Belgian State to make good the mistakes of the past. As positive as recognising this historical injustice is, it is important that we do not confine ourselves to a symbolic gesture. It is up to the government to work as quickly as possible on the active support of further research that can bring torn families back together before it is too late. Colleagues, the time has come to embrace the metisses community, apologize and heal their wounds. It is now up to us to work with them on the past in a correct way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u148	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall first address the public who have been listening to us for about six hours. This is proof that, as soon as it is a colonial past, it takes time to find solutions. You experienced it today. I'm really sorry about that. During this debate, we heard the expression of tremendous pain and the mention of many horrors - as Mr Miller pointed out - I will not come back to that. This is a fact: today, all Belgians, and we are the representatives of them, still do not assume their colonial past, which is the subject of a refoulement. Tonight, we will take a first step. As Mrs de Coster announced, who took the initiative of this motion for a resolution with Mr Crusnière, we will take on a very small part of the shadows. The Métis are the incarnation, in the first sense of the term, of Belgian colonization. Indeed, by their bodies, by their history, they illustrate our colonial past in Africa. Today, we recognize the responsibility of Belgium and its various authorities, whether state, religious or economic, in your suffering. It is through a motion for a resolution that I am sure will be voted unanimously that we will solemnly recognize it, just as we will recognize Belgium's responsibility as heir to the colonial State in your suffering. I would like to say to you that we are sorry, even if, individually, we have nothing to do with the abuses of the past as representatives of the Belgian people. However, we are the heirs of this colonial State, including the independent State of the Congo, and we have a responsibility here before you. In concrete terms, this means that the Belgian State will have to make every effort from tomorrow to make available to you the national archives, but also foreign ones, which contain data which are particularly essential to know your parents' journey. In particular, I am thinking of the archives of the White Fathers and the White Sisters not yet mentioned by the colleagues and which have been discussed at length in committee. These archives are now in Rome. I think we will speak to our Foreign Minister to act with our representatives, our diplomats in Rome with the Italian State and also with the Vatican, so that these archives crucial to knowing your parents' past can be accessible to you. It seems to me that we must also make an effort in Belgium not only to give the government the task of opening up these archives, but also to make the essential part between the important respect for privacy - I am fighting in this forum for it - and the solemn declaration of your right to know your origins; this takes precedence over privacy, in this case it is about files dating back over 57 years! Your stories, your history as a Métis, 57 years after the independence of Congo, Rwanda and Burundi, suggest other stories of colonization, such as human remains stored in federal scientific institutions. We are also thinking of this ongoing debate in our communes and, in particular, in the City of Brussels and in the Brussels communes on the place to be given to Leopold II for what it represents in the history of the Belgian colonies. I am also thinking of other subjects, such as the tragic, still unsolved death of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Dag Hammarskjöld. The common thread between all these stories is our colonial past. But three things are common to all these colonial stories. The first is the issue of archives. Today, in your case, you mestizos, and in all other cases, there is the unwillingness of the state to open archives on such essential records as our colonial past. In all the files I have cited, the archives are made difficult to access. In-depth work will be required to make these archives accessible. Secondly, it is very difficult to clearly transcribe what really happened. Today, 57 years after the independence of our former colonies, we cannot read a history written on thousands of pages about what really happened in Central Africa, under the domination of the Belgian authorities, whether it be the colonial state or financial, industrial companies such as the General of Belgium or the Union Minière. You, the Métis, have been particularly victims of religious, Catholic and Protestant authorities. We Members of Parliament, representatives of the Belgian people today, are responsible for this colonial past embodied by the Belgian state and by all the institutions that have played a role in the colonization of Central Africa. Thirdly, Belgium does not accept and yet does not recognise the content of all these dossiers. That is why, together with a few colleagues, we have been working on a resolution calling for Belgium to start work to recognise what has happened and what the colonial process as a whole is, in its economic, industrial and political dimensions. Mr.Richard Miller recalled at some length, citing some of the comments that have sometimes been made here, how colonial ideology is an excluded process that perhaps explains what racism is today. Today we are at the first stage and, although I am aware that the political forces' relationship will not lead us to one day vote on a comprehensive resolution to recognise Belgium's responsibility after a thorough and properly funded scientific process, I believe that we have worked in a correct way, with a majority and opposition, all the political groups represented. That is why this has worked because, as soon as it comes to recognizing a past, the majority and the opposition must work together, in a consensual way. Otherwise, one may be right on one side of his bench, but the result is not there. The result, which can be welcomed today, is that Belgium recognizes its responsibility for the situation of the Métis in particular. I would like one day to see the same observation made and to see that the entire House can recognise Belgium's responsibility in the colonial process. Today, you, the Métis, are the first step in this great process that is just beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u149	Mr President, I would like to join my colleagues in welcoming the adoption of this resolution. I would also like to congratulate the representatives of the Belgian Métis Association because this is the result of a long work, which they started years ago with the various parliaments, deputies and groups, particularly in the Brussels Senate and Parliament. It was necessary to carry out this work in the various assemblies in order to make us aware of this history and to ensure that everyone could, at the different levels of responsibility, accompany the recommendations of this resolution. This resolution is first of all a work of memory in relation to a story that was very little known, if not unknown, in relation to a story that was hidden, a "honest" story, a history of racism, a history of segregation, a history of discrimination. It was first and foremost this work that was indispensable: to be able to reveal this story, to be able to know it better, even if, in the end, few things are known. There is therefore an accompanying work by CEGESOMA which will be very important in order to continue this work of memory and this report which we have asked for in the future. Secondly, this resolution is a promise made to this community that we will be keen to investigate in the various places where information still exists today that will help to find mothers and other family members, to find these stories and perhaps to find families that will be able to reconnect. It is also a promise of reparation, notably through the acquisition of nationality and by other means. It is also important because it is a matter of redressing an injustice that has been created through the treatment of these Métis people. It is therefore a parliamentary achievement, I would say, but at the same time the beginning of a history of support, accompaniment and recognition, of reparation in relation to this community. I wanted to welcome my colleagues for the work that has been done, for the necessary follow-up and for the support that this resolution will deserve in the coming months and years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the political history of a country forges the consciences of the citizens, but if history has its progress, it also has its own faults and injustices. At that point, it is the consciences that must be questioned! The more a state assumes its responsibilities and those of its history, the more it can emerge from it. This is the message of this motion for a resolution which I had the pleasure of co-signing with my colleagues and for which I thank Mr Crusnière and Mrs de Coster-Bauchau for having taken the initiative of a joint text which brought together all the political groups in this House. Following other parliamentary assemblies and other institutions – the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the Senate, the Flemish Parliament and the Common Community Commission – we must have the will to take on these dark pages of history when – as our colleague Richard Miller so rightly pointed out by quoting words that are now scandalizing us even more – the political will of the leaders of the time was to carry out policies of segregation with the complicity of a number of circles and forces of society, including the Churches. These segregation policies were organized in our colonies at the time, in Congo and in Ruanda-Urundi, against hundreds of Métis children from the union of African mothers and Belgian citizens from the country. I confess that I had not taken full measure of the gravity of this moment in history. It happens that I had read a wonderful book by Didier Daeninckx, Galadio, about the terrible fate of Métis children born in Germany, after World War I, of the union of German occupation soldiers after the Treaty of Versailles with Germans, and the terrible fate reserved for these children at the time of the rise of the Nazi regime. It's a very challenging live. I am emotionally thinking of this reading by discovering the extent of the segregation being carried out by our country during its colonial period in the countries from which the Métis children are born. Our story, too, is terrible and intriguing. In short, what has always founded the colonial ambitions of a number of States is the so-called "best interests of the State", which is the false nose of history, the false excuse of all those who never wanted to assume responsibility for their actions and the leaders of the time. It is true that one can always wonder about the meaning of memorial laws. It is known that there are historians to challenge its relevance, and that there are historians to challenge the initiatives of the parliamentary assemblies that want to recall what the political responsibilities of the time were. I do not share the view of those who want to confine the determination of policy responsibilities at the time to historical scientific analysis alone. I am one of those who think that even if history makes a judgment on responsibilities, the ultimate judgment must belong to the citizens and the elected of the people when facts of such gravity have been the responsibility of the politicians. This is the honour of a democratic assembly: it is not to take refuge behind the study of history for the sole reason for justifying the abandonment of this period in collective memory. It is true that we have a duty of remembrance towards these Métis, their children and grandchildren, who still remain today in search of their roots, their history, their journey of life, not yet completed, because the best interests of the state have denied their existence. And the political decision we are taking today is to consider that the best interests of the state were simply the false excuse of those who did not want to assume their responsibilities. Today, therefore, we must recognize the targeted segregation of the Métis under the colonial administration of the Belgian Congo and Rwanda-Burundi, as well as the policy of forced abduction that accompanied it. Not only must we condemn the abuses of the alleged and false civilizing action of colonial action with its procession of abuses, segregations, discriminations, sufferings, wounds, racist propaganda, exploitation of wealth, violence, inhuman and degrading treatment of crimes, but above all we have a duty of fraternity to assume towards these victims. That is why, together with the other groups, we call on the government to provide not only moral but also legal redress to the victims by setting up a procedure for granting or recovering the nationality of which they originate by helping them to identify their biological parents or by ensuring this work of reconstructing memory through the exploitation of all the archives available and which are still hidden or hidden by the will of the State. It is therefore out of consistency with the democratic ideals that have always founded our political commitment and our work in this House that my group will obviously support this indispensable motion for a resolution, of which I thank the authors once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, visitors, the PTB will support this motion which is clearly in the right direction. At the time of the colonial conquest, racist theories were the dominant ideology in Europe. In order to justify colonialism, some thinkers divided the world into lower and higher races. The Belgian Congo was built on a racist model. The most powerful Congolese leader had no value in colonial society compared to a white man living in the Congo. The company was structured in this way. No Congolese could gain access to a position of responsibility, do politics, study. The fact that colonial society took Métis children from their black parents clearly shows that there was a vision with a hierarchy of races, considering that the black mother could not take care of half-white children. As Mr Assumani explained during the hearings, the transfer of the Métis to Europe is not the prerogative of Belgium, since France has also transferred Eurasian Métis to France. However, unlike Belgium, France will, by decree of 4 November 1928, grant French nationality to all Métis born in Indochina, whether or not they are recognized. This decree will later be applied to the other French colonies. The legal status of Métis children born in colonies of legally unknown parents had been established: in French West Africa by decree of 5 September 1930, in the colony of Madagascar and its dependencies by decree of 21 July 1931, in New Caledonia by decree of 20 May 1933 and in French Equatorial Africa by decree of 15 September 1936. Mr Assumani said that Belgium would, on the other hand, refuse to give Belgian nationality under various pretexts, with the exception of recognized Métis. Unrecognized Métis have generally been considered indigenous. This text is not only a fight for a better recognition of the injustice of children abducted from their parents. It is also a symbol of a struggle against racism that has been used to justify colonization and, still today, neocolonialism. This initiative could never have existed without the long-standing and ongoing struggle, including the Métis Association for the Recognition of Harms. The fact that Belgium took as long to recognize an element as simple as access to the archives to find their parents shows the extent of the obstacles to be faced. Belgium has therefore taken steps forward on the question of racism and its colonial attitude. One can mention the fact that the government recognized in 2001 its responsibility for the assassination of Patrice Lumumba and, today, Belgium recognizes the injustice done to the Métis. This goes in the right direction, even though there is still a long way to go in the light of this denunciation of racism and the crimes of colonization. One day, we will have to recognize Belgium's support for this odious dictatorship of Mobutu, which, together with the colonial legacy, has led to the situation still in the Congo today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u152	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-29-54-plenair-ip221x.u153	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. Ladies and gentlemen, for technical reasons, we must now reset the sound system. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 29 March 2018 at 8.40 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, March 29, 2018 at 8.40 p.m.
