ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u1	Colleagues, Secretary of State, welcome to this question-and-answer session, which will be followed at 2:15 p.m. by questions to the Minister of Justice. Questions Nos 23976 and 23977 by Mr Vanden Burre are transformed into written questions. Question No 24400 by Mrs Ben Hamou is postponed. We come to the joint questions of Messrs. Hellings and Vanden Burre, but questions Nos 24918 and 24922 by Mr Vanden Burre fall because he is absent. Mr Hellings, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u2	Mr President, if I have learned that the answers to Mr Vanden Burre's questions have been transferred, I will not ask them. Thank you. Mr Secretary of State, according to the former research director of Cambridge Analytica, the company would have, through its digital manipulations, heavily influenced some recent election campaigns and thus the result of several elections, such as the referendum that led to Brexit, the American presidential election or the recent Italian legislative elections. Thanks to the serious flaws in Facebook's security protocols, Cambridge Analytica collected mass personal data from citizens unaware of this capture in order to analyze, classify and exploit them. The UK company has thus carried out the behavioural and political profiling of non-applicants for this profiling. This practice then enabled targeting strategies to be put in place in order to present to a 'active' public - I quote their words - tailored fake news that could influence its electoral behaviour. In this way, the exponential spread of conspiracy theories, totally unfounded rumours, and even narrations built from all parts and often close to the theories of the extreme and xenophobic right has been rooted. This incredible technique - for my part I am completely mouthed - seeks to meet the buried expectations of voters in order to guide their political choices and those of their relatives who are also present on Facebook. However, according to the chairman of the British parliamentary committee on digital technology, Damian Collins, Russian interference in the referendum that led to Brexit lies precisely in the formation of a network of propagandists ignoring their targeting on Facebook and disseminating fake news from well-known Russian propaganda bodies, such as RT or Sputnik. Mr Secretary of State, can you tell me whether today Belgian citizens have also been the subject of involuntary profiling by Cambridge Analytica, knowing that personal data for which you are responsible have visibly been collected elsewhere in the world? In view of the municipal elections of 2018, and especially the general election of 2019, what are the preventive mechanisms put in place by the government to deal with threats of digital interference, and hence the capture of personal data, as observed in Great Britain, the United States and Italy? In view of Russia's massive investment in the dissemination of propagandistic information to abroad, what steps is the government taking to limit the spread of fake news on social networks and guarantee Belgian citizens their right to receive verified and ethical information? My question dates back to the initiative taken by your colleague Mr. From Croo. In the continuity of the European Union's efforts to regulate the extraction of personal data, and this is the meaning of the GDPR that will soon enter into force, what steps will you initiate at European level to ensure the secure use of Belgian personal data by digital companies, particularly American ones? Have a request for explanation and an official protest from the Belgian government been communicated to Facebook? Finally, these digital platforms have become indispensable for the daily lives of citizens. They have become the essential vector of information for a very large number of Belgians. Should they not therefore be considered as full public services and benefit from greater regulation, appropriate to their essential social function?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u3	In my view, the scandal of Cambridge Analytica, which collected personal data without real transparency, to be diplomatic, is a subject that we discussed in the big debate last week. I have answered a number of your questions in plenary. The investigation is carried out by the UK supervisory authority ICO, which, together with its European colleagues, analyses what has happened and how they can sanction or ensure greater transparency for those affected. For the moment we are waiting for the results of this investigation. However, in the Working Party 29, where the various privacy committees come together at European level, Belgium is one of the countries that called for the setting up of a working group on social networks because it is important to clarify the position of these large companies on how they manage data, how they are used and whether they are in line with the European regulation. This is essential for me and Belgium plays an important role with its skills. Moreover, Belgium was the first country to launch an investigation and a lawsuit against Facebook when data on Belgian citizens were collected in a non-transparent manner, even concerning people who did not have a profile on Facebook. With regard to the future communal elections and the general election of 2019, we do not currently believe that these practices are practiced by the parties. I have no information about this. You're talking about indirect influence, but we don't control data stored on a platform outside the government. But it is true that their organisation itself is managed by Mr Jan Jambon, who is responsible for assessing the level of security and if it is necessary to increase it. I think we are already doing a lot for the data protection process. On the steps already taken with regard to Fake News, you have already mentioned that my colleague De Croo, in cooperation with us, is determining whether there are any means that can be useful for us to tackle this problem. I myself, as a Liberal, want freedom of expression, which I consider essential. There is therefore a need for a discussion on this border. Indeed, this freedom is still defended in the treaties and in fundamental human rights. I think it is very important in this respect: journalists, different organisations and citizens must be able to express themselves freely, and it is not in contradiction with the fact that someone is taxing such or such information about fake news. So we are seeing what we can do, Minister De Croo and myself. You also know that on 25 May we will have the data protection regulation which will enter into force. It is also an important element in improving the protection of individual data, but also in forcing companies to operate more transparently than they currently do. We must exercise our vigilance over how data is processed and give citizens, people and users more control over their personal data. It is currently under way. You have, of course, received emails from dozens of companies or organizations asking if your data can still be used or not. I therefore believe that there is a real change of mindset here too and that the European regulation is in the process of fulfilling its function. We are also working in this area in close cooperation with the European Commission to assess how the regulation will be applied and implemented in different countries. I have also sent a letter to Commissioner Jourová, to the European Commission, expressing my concerns about the Cambridge Analytica scandal, and sharing my commitment and that of the Committee on Privacy Protection to prevent such a situation from happening again, without clarity or transparency on how to use the data, as they are collected in a way that does not seem to comply with the new regulation. It is obvious that we offer our cooperation and our full support to Commissioner Jourová because they are often also large multinationals and not Belgian companies, and we therefore need to work together at European level to ensure that the rules are respected. You also know that the various digital platforms you are talking about have become indispensable for people's daily lives. They play a very important role. I think we need to see now what the impact of the new European regulation, the RGDP, is and whether it is sufficient for the protection of privacy. There is also another aspect. At European level, we already see the different countries getting around the table for example to fight, with Commissioner Vestager, against companies that have too much power in a certain part of the market or to consider taxation on digital transactions or better control. There too, debates are being held at European level and I think that is the level at which they should be held. The discussions are on the way and further steps, which I believe are in the right direction, are being taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u4	Thank you, Secretary of State. I very much welcome the initiative taken by your colleague De Croo. I think working on Fake News with citizens via an online participatory initiative is a good thing. I also welcome your initiative to speak with Commissioner Verstager. The best way to better regulate GAFA, these huge digital companies that are monopolizing in their markets, is to tackle the issue of competition, even more than the issue of privacy. That's how we can hurt them the most. Ms Verstager has taken a number of initiatives which are also in the right direction. You think I asked the same question as this one to your colleague in charge of the Interior, Mr Jambon. His answers were much less focused on the issue of privacy and the organization of the election. Basically, nothing is done by the Minister of the Interior. He sent me back to the Prime Minister, in charge of the Belgian Cyberdefense Centre. I asked the Prime Minister this question, but on the Interior, nothing is done. With regard to freedom of expression, it is clear that the fight against fake news and its effects must not undermine the fundamental freedom of expression. But it is a fact, today, that is noted by our British colleagues and other American colleagues, too, that knowingly spread data to a population targeted by the theft of their personal data has had an impact in recent elections. It is a fact that we must be able to count on. This is how it happened today. It's proven. The GDPR you mentioned is an opportunity to give citizens more power over their personal data. It comes into force in nine days. Your "Mammouth" bill is still stuck. I do not know at what level, but in any case it was not tabled on the benches of this committee. It's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u5	Yes, the rules. But you know that its implementation is not similar to that of a directive. In any case, the "Mammouth" project is highly criticized by the Privacy Commission – which is unfortunately still not transformed into a data protection authority. This "Mammouth" bill must come to the benches of this commission. He's still not there. I therefore think that you should benefit from having, for the first time, to do just that in this government. You're Secretary of State for Privacy. Act to ensure that the general data protection regulation can be used by citizens to defend themselves against these different monopolistic digital companies. Turn on and move.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u6	Question No 25019 by Mrs Karine Lalieux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u7	Secretary of State, the application of Grindr homosexual encounters has recently been criticized for allowing third-party companies access to private data from its users, including their HIV status. One of the officials confirmed that Grindr worked with companies such as Apptimize or Localytics, who were responsible for testing the application and as such, received personal data. On the other hand, he claimed that no data was sold. Secretary of State, this new case raises a question, only a few days after the presentation of similar facts at Facebook. Do you have more information about this file? Do you know whether data from Belgian users could be disclosed and/or sold to Belgian companies? What actions are possible to ensure better control and privacy in such applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u8	Mr Flahaux, medical and sexual data are considered to be very sensitive data, which can only be processed with the explicit consent of the data subject. I learned this from the press and immediately asked the Commission for more information on whether or not Belgians were affected. I haven't had an answer yet. The law punishes such offences with a criminal fine. In addition, from 25 May, with the European Government, we will be able to take further action, for example to prevent certain providers from processing this type of information. In early December, we tabled a bill, which was unanimously passed in Parliament, concerning the change of name of the Privacy Commission to the Data Protection Authority. The directors must be appointed by Parliament and from 25 May they will have all the powers to combat this type of act and, if necessary, impose fines. Medical and sexual data are sensitive data and must be protected at all costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I had no doubt that as Secretary of State for Privacy and as a Liberal, you were vigilant about this issue. Can you provide me with any response you have received in response to your request? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u10	Mr. Chair, Mr. Secretary of State, we had done a lot of work on your privacy bill. And as you have just told my esteemed colleague, we supported the move because the project was adopted unanimously. But I still have the impression that the government is tangled up in this matter and that the population is going to be the victim. Indeed, the General Regulation for the Protection of Personal Data, on the basis of which the draft which became law was built, was to be interpreted in some way by a law whose entry into force was to take place before 25 May. However, I do not have the impression – but you may surprise me – that we can have a general application in Belgium. I understand there are little problems. You'll explain to me what they're all about. It seems to me that, at the level of government, there is not only an impreparation, but that there are differences of opinion with regard to the police information monitoring body. I asked you the question on the occasion of the review of your bill – I remember the discussion we had about it – and you said that with respect to police information, there would be something else, something special. Quite recently, I asked the same question to the Minister of the Interior, who assured me that it would be done. All right. But we're almost here on May 25 and I haven't seen a bill yet that concerns the COC (Police Information Review Body). If this bill is going to be voted on before 25 May, let me know now and I will stay there. That will mean that everything is arranged. But if not, what will happen? For the time being, without amendment, the COC does not meet the structural requirements of the Regulations. It cannot therefore assume the tasks entrusted to it. So what will happen from May 25? Normally, the Privacy Commission will disappear. It is in the logic of the system that you put in place. My excellent colleague went to the evaluation level for the Privacy Commission, in particular in its 2017 Annual Report. The report states that a lot of complaints come from citizens who are referred to in data banks, that they cannot consult themselves because the data are processed by the police or intelligence services. What then does the Privacy Commission do? It carries out the verifications itself. And in her annual report, she says that in almost 42% of cases, she found a breach of privacy. It's not nothing: 42% of the cases! Consequently, the registration in question was either deleted, wholly or partly, or corrected. My question is: What is going on in this government? How is it that what you promised me – just like the Minister of the Interior – seems to remain a dead letter? From 25 May, to whom will citizens have to apply for the control of their personal data held by the police and intelligence authorities? I would also like to ask you whether any budgetary resources will be allocated to the COC, to the extent that additional tasks will be assigned to it,... once your government has agreed, because it will require additional work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u11	Mrs Onkelinx, thank you for your questions. It is true that the deadline for the entry into force of the new regulation is fast approaching. That is why, in December, we reformed the Privacy Commission. The aim was to be able to quickly appoint competent officials. Parliament had asked to be the body responsible for the process of appointing the directors of the Commission. I note that a certain period of time is required in this regard. In my view, Parliament must take the necessary steps to appoint the persons concerned before 25 May. That's for the first step. Second stage, it is true that Article 4 of the new law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority provides, in respect of the police services, that the powers, tasks and powers of supervisory authority as provided for in the Regulation of 2016, are exercised by the COC. The COC already exists in this Parliament, even if it does not exercise the tasks and powers of authority and control. My colleague, Minister Jambon, is doing so. This is part of the framework law which contains different measures, not only on the RGDP, but also measures to transpose the police-justice directive. This framework law was already approved at first reading in the Council of Ministers on 16 March. I am currently finalising this project, taking into account the remarks made by the Privacy Commission, but also by the Council of State. The bill will then be adopted by the government and tabled in Parliament as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u12	Has he ever been to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u13	Yes. We have already received the comments and are taking them into consideration this week. We will present the text as soon as possible to the government for a second reading before tabling it in Parliament. Until the adoption of the framework law establishing the competent data protection authorities for the police and intelligence services, continuity of services is ensured by the Data Protection Authority, which will be in charge of monitoring the personal data of citizens held by the police and intelligence authorities. There is no vacuum but a process that is on the way to extending, if not ready, the powers that already exist in this Parliament for the OCC and for the Privacy Commission. Even in the event that not everything has been done before 25 May – neither the appointments by Parliament of the various directors of the Privacy Commission, nor the adoption of the framework law – all the necessary steps are taken to ensure that the citizen is protected, enjoys all his rights and can exercise them before the various bodies which must also control the various administrations and who will have all the powers at that time to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u14	I hear the Secretary of State telling us that it is on the way, that it is true that we are late, but that it will be voted on as soon as possible. What is interesting is that you say that there is still continuity of service and that therefore citizens will continue to be protected. But: by whom? I'm a citizen...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u15	There is a proposal for a law that is currently under discussion in this Parliament, does it seem to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u16	Normally it should be in the Justice Committee, I have not seen it pass. No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u17	There is a project that will be tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u18	You're telling me: we're going to ensure continuity, so that it goes as quickly as possible and to connect up to the vote on the framework law we're going to have a bill...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u19	There are two ways to organise continuity: first, Parliament can appoint the different directors for the new Privacy Commission, the new Data Protection Authority...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u20	Yes...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u21	If it's done before May 25th...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u22	Yes...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u23	There is no problem here, because people are appointed, there is an authority that is 100% competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u24	Oh, no, she's not 100% competent for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u25	If Parliament, which itself has asked to organise this process, fails to do so, there is – as I understood in the discussions with the various group leaders – a bill that will be tabled this week to ensure continuity. So, there are two cases. I personally appeal to the first of the cases, because it seems to me essential that Parliament appoint the various directors of the new authority as soon as possible. If we do that, I don't think there's any problem. If Parliament fails to do so before 25 May, I think Parliament needs a bill to ensure continuity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u26	I'll answer by saying I don't understand you. Even if Parliament appoints the different directors for the new authority – and it must do so! – this new authority is not competent for police services. So, what are you telling me?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u27	No, it's by default. In the Directive there is the option either to give all the powers to the Authority or to organise them differently. So, by default, all the skills...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u28	Okay, but you ruled it out in your law!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u29	No, it's by default.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u30	Yes. You ruled him out in your law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u31	Yes, it is excluded, but legally, the regulation says that by default all the powers will be exercised at that time by the new Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u32	I have no problem with that. Simply, you have a law that contravenes a higher standard, since the regulation says that, and in your law you have excluded it by providing that it is the COC. which is competent and not the Protection Authority. You are telling me that there will soon be a reform of the COC.: Very well. In the meantime, there will certainly be a bill... If I understand correctly, the bill is simply if the new Authority is not in order with the appointment of the directors. Will the bill tell the current Privacy Commission that it continues until the other one is here? Or not? And that she goes on for everything then? In my opinion, and I still have some experience, there are some bills that are widely agreed with the government. So, do you think that this bill will allow the Privacy Commission to continue until the new Authority is fully operational? That's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u33	I heard that a bill would be introduced, and I didn't get any idea of its content.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u34	Good. If I may say so, it's still a big mess. I'm so sorry! We are just a few days away from the entry into force and we still do not know how this will happen for the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u35	So the simplest exercise is to appoint the new directors before May 25.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u36	How come it's still not done? You still have contacts with the Speaker of the House, I suppose?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u37	We have different roles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u38	This does not prevent consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u39	This concludes this first part of the question. We will meet again at 2:15 p.m. for questions to ask the Minister of Justice. Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u40	Minister, it is not always easy for the judge and his counselor today. I refer to a practice at certain Registrys in which parties or counsellors who have been given the right to inspect and take copies of a file are prohibited from carrying out those copies themselves by, for example, taking a photo or scan with a hand pen. On the Registrys where this is prohibited, one relies on the argument that this would circumvent the registry rights, while there is a circular from the FPS Finance, which clarifies the issue. On the basis of that circular, lawyers who have been granted access to access and copy would be entitled to take extracts or copies of the documents themselves where that is in the interests of the defence. In particular, the circular states very clearly that there are several exceptions to the registry rights, in particular in criminal law. Thus, the defenders of the defendants and the accused are entitled to take extracts or copies of the documents themselves. That possibility, admitted in the interests of the defence, is strictly limited to criminal matters. If no delivery is made by the Registrar, no duty shall apply where the copy is made by the person outside the Registry and the third party consults the documents himself and copies them with his own material at the Registry without recourse to the Registrar. This also applies to copies made by the third party by means of their own reading pen, hand scanner, smartphone, tablet or other similar device. The circular confirms a practice which may and may not be accepted at some Registrys. Mr Minister, are you aware of the non-uniform application by the various Registrys? Do you believe that lawyers should be given the opportunity to independently take copies, photos and scans of a criminal record? Do you think it is necessary to adapt the legislation in this area so that a clear legal basis can be established and that uncertainty will be put to an end in practice? If this is not necessary and if the current legislation is sufficient, could you perhaps give some instruction to the Registry, so that there are the same possibilities everywhere for those who wish to consult a file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u41	Minister, Mr Van Cauter has already outlined the problem very well, so I will not repeat it. There is some fear among lawyers that they will have to re-record with pen and paper elements from the files or wait a very long time before requested copies reach them, while they often need those copies more quickly. Mr. Secretary, I don't know how long it's been since you've looked at a criminal record as a lawyer. The files you were facing will, I presume, not have been small files for a police court. So I think you are also aware of the importance of being able to look at documents as a lawyer in a quick and practical way, especially if the person concerned is entitled to do so and has obtained the authorisation. The latter is, of course, essential. Apparently, there are different practices throughout the courts in our country. That's problematic. I think it is best to deal with this in the same way. In addition, I think it is important to find a pragmatic solution. Mr Minister, are you prepared to help find a pragmatic solution in the interests of everyone, the seeker of justice and the lawyer, and also in the interests of the practical organisation at the Registry?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u42	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is still unclear in the field for lawyers whether or not they are allowed to use pens or hand scans and whether or not they are allowed to take photographs of files at the Registry. Mr Van Cauter referred to a circular from Finance, to which you have already referred in response to previous parliamentary questions. I agree with the questions put by my fellow Members. In your reply to that question, you referred to the possibility of obtaining a copy of the file free of charge when the Registry is not used. So no expedition duty is paid in criminal law cases. What about civil matters, commercial matters and other matters? What are the reasons for saying that what applies to criminal law would not apply there? I also refer to Article 268 of the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights. There is no distinction between criminal law and the other branches of law. Nor does the Court's Code prohibit a party having the right of copy and access from transferring documents from the file in any way. Minister, do you share that view? Do you think that a distinction should be made between criminal matters and other cases? If so, on the basis of what legal text? In an ideal world, of course, one no longer has to go to the Registry to look at a file. In principle, one should also be able to do so on the computer or even on the smartphone, at any location. A solution to this is, of course, the electronic criminal record. At present, there is a pilot project in prison for arrests. What is the status of this pilot project? What aspects are being tested? What are the results? What is the next phase of the pilot project? At a special Council of Ministers on Security and Justice, the creation of a database of electronic police PVs was approved. Justice would therefore have access to it. What progress has been made with the development of this database? Finally, by when do you plan a complete roll-out of the electronic criminal record? What intermediate steps should be taken to this end?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u43	Minister, according to the Order of Flemish Baries, there is a new directive which provides that lawyers are no longer allowed to make copies of documents from pending files. However, they often did so with the hand scanner or smartphone. However, I cannot imagine that lawyers should no longer be allowed to make copies and only take notes, with pen and paper. That takes a lot more work to prepare files, which will also cost the client a lot more money. Mr. Secretary, is that correct? That seems to me to be unworthy of a judicial system in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u44	Mr President, I have nothing more to add to the questions put by my colleagues, except that there is indeed a reference to previous questions. This undoubtedly means a question that I asked you in June 2017. In your reply, you referred to the circular 6/2014 in which this would be clarified. I would like to add that for the report and all the lawyers who will read it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u45	In view of the fact that there are now a few additions to the questions that were tabled last week, I do not have all the answers. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh in particular may be dissatisfied with this. I'll come back to that later. I have asked for the opinion of the College of Courts and Courts on the issues in the respective questions. By letter of 7 May, I was allowed to receive the opinion of the College. I quote from that point of view. "For example, with reference to Article 21a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, interested parties may, during an investigation, request permission to inspect and copy the criminal file. Secondly, it is up to the investigating judge to give access to and/or copy of the criminal record in the judicial investigation under Article 61ter of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thirdly, the use of modern technology and scanning by means of reading pens, hand scanners, smartphone and tablets is permitted only when permission is granted to access and copy. Even then, the investigating court may expressly exclude certain documents from access and copying. Fourthly, no duty shall be payable if the Registrar does not intervene in the provision of the copies and a third party consults the criminal file and is responsible for its copying by his own means." It refers to the circular 6/2014 of 27 February 2014 of the FPS Finance, which was also mentioned by Mr Terwingen. Furthermore, the College states that "the right of inspection means in concrete terms that a full criminal record may be read and even transferred manually to the Registry." That is a quote and I underline in that quote the words: and even at the Registry manually overwritten. The College also states that it does not object in principle to the generalised use of modern technology which allows the file itself to be copied as a result of the inspection of the file. But it is added that the latter, copying using modern technology, would, in his opinion, require a change of law. I agree with the College's position, perhaps with the exception of this latter aspect, in particular that it would require a legislative amendment to allow the use of modern technology in copying the file as a result of access. I do not think that the legal argument that the overwriting would allow with the pen and would not allow the overwriting with modern technology would allow. I believe that this is either a teleological or an evolutionary interpretation of the law. The purpose of the right of access is to allow the person who is granted the right of access to the file to obtain maximum knowledge of the file. By making this material unnecessarily difficult, we do not serve the purpose of the law. As is also mentioned in the College's letter, which referred earlier to the secrecy of the investigation, it remains valid in full, regardless of whether an infringement arises from a viewing and copying in the classical or in the use of modern technology. After all, there must be no abuse. There is, however, a need for legislation to be amended here. At present, there is only a provision of criminal law which regulates the misuse of information obtained through access and copy in a judicial investigation. As you know, inspection and copy have also recently been provided for in the investigation. It is probably useful to clarify legislatively that the secret of the investigation is also fully valid in these investigations with regard to the alleged abuses. Although it would not be necessary, in my view, we can take this opportunity to legally anchor copying or accessing with more modern technology if we are to restore peace. I will consult with the College on this and, if necessary, take a legislative initiative. We are working on the digitisation of criminal records and their online consultation, which will reduce the need for copying as such. In several prisons, the Consult-Online application has already been installed for the prisoners. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I apologize, I will send you the other answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u46	Mr President, Minister, I note that it goes without saying that even the entire file can only be overwritten if one has the right to inspect and copy a particular file. That goes without saying. I also note that this can be done by means of own resources. If this is done by means of own resources, there are no registry fees and there can be no circumvention. In your opinion, overwriting can also be interpreted by own means as taking a photo with a smartphone, scans and the like. You say that this can be legally anchored to be sure. In the meantime, however, people must have access to a file day in and day out, because the procedures do not wait. I would therefore ask you to have the reading of these provisions circulated and to use your authority. I don't know how that can actually happen. Maybe it can go through the College of Courts and Courts. In this way, the right of access and copy provided to the parties can be dealt with in a normal manner in the field in order to allow normal procedure as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u47	To be honest, Mr Minister, I must confess that I am somewhat surprised by the answer you received from the College of the courts and courts, namely on the aspect that a change of law would be necessary to make it clear that there may be a transfer, but that what is being overwritten should not be photographed. Overwrite in the same font size is allowed, but may not take a copy. You're gonna have to explain that on the street. Tell that to young people who work with tablets. I think a small form of world alienation has crept into the workings of the College. I'm glad you're not following the College in that respect. If I understand you correctly, you think that making copies should be possible and that there is no need to change the law. I am therefore launching the same appeal as my colleague. We are not going to wait for further consultations to take place, so that a circular can be distributed after several weeks or months. I suggest that you use your power and authority as a minister to inform in a ministerial circular that the making of copies of files is permitted. All the clerks know and that is the end of the discussion. I hope that you or your staff will not have to spend hours of meetings to resolve that. I think there are more serious and more important cases in the Justice Department. I support you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can only agree fully with my colleagues. I am therefore counting on you to do everything in your power to ensure that justice is in line with the modern world. As you yourself say, things are too crazy for words. I would also like to thank you for sending me the answers. I would like to make it clear that I tabled my question last week. I suppose I will receive the answers by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u49	Mr Terwingen, you have the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u50	Mr President, I think Mrs Lambrecht should be given the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u51	Sorry, Mrs Lambrecht, you're up first.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u52	Because Bruges won Standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u53	Yeah, I know, although I tried, but I couldn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u54	Mr President, Minister, I will not stretch it unnecessarily. I agree with my colleagues, but I was reminded of the interesting congress you organised a while ago on the justice of the future. Then this is something that we are ashamed of because it still exists in 2018. I do not want to ask you for a timing, because then you will always reply as soon as possible, but I hope that it can be done very quickly, for something that is quite normal for the modal citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u55	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your dynamic and progressive response. You suppress it in a wonderful and controlled way, but I do feel some frustration with you because you have to respond in this way. In the meantime, we have known each other a little longer. There is a tension between you and the urge for you to modernise and move faster and some interpretations of the judicial world that may be slightly less dynamic and progressive. I am very empathetic to you and I share the feeling that there is something wrong there. I have no doubt that you will use all the powers that you would have, and which Mr Van Hecke even attaches to you, to clarify as quickly as possible, so that the same systems are applied to all the offices of all the courts and courts and it is treated as overwriting with an ordinary pen, whether it is a reading or another automated device. I have noted correctly that until the Registry intervenes, there is no duty of expedition. That seems to me to be the logic itself, as I always find all your answers very logical.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u56	Mr President, Minister, many people have bad experiences with contractors, installers and dealers in the construction sector. Construction workers and consumers often have to pay huge amounts of advance payments and are then confronted with very poorly executed works or even worse a bankruptcy of the contractor. Especially in the latter case, the builder or consumer loses a lot of money. If the contractor were declared bankrupt before the start of the works or the execution of the order, the builder would have lost his advance. After all, a builder or consumer is the last in the line of creditors. In the event of failure during the performance of the contract, the curator will determine whether or not the contract is terminated. Upon termination, the builder is entitled to compensation, although the chance of effective compensation will again be very minimal. There is no problem in the case of a contract for adoption which falls within the scope of the Breyne Act. That law provides for a statutory advance scheme. Upon conclusion of such an agreement, the advance payment may not exceed 5% of the total price. However, in the case of contracts of acceptance which do not concern the purchase of a new building house, reference should be made to the ordinary law on adoption in the Civil Code. There is no provision for the advance payment system, with all its consequences. Contractors ask for exuberant advance payments and builders or consumers have no guarantee that the works will be completed effectively and qualitatively. The only thing they can be advised to do during their negotiations is to play out the competition market so that they can win an agreement with reasonable advance payments. Minister, I have two questions. Firstly, by extending the scope of the Breyne Act to all contracts, the builder is protected against insolvency of the contractor and he is also given a stronger position in the event of any errors or defects. Extreme advances will become dead letter. This will also benefit the contractor. He could fall back on a legal basis which ensures him a remuneration at the beginning and during the works, and not just on completion. How do you view such an extension of the scope? Secondly, if you consider that an extension of the scope of the Breyne Act to all contracting agreements is too far-reaching, would you consider including a mandatory provision on the advance payment scheme in the ordinary rules governing the adoption?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u57	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, in reply to your questions, I would remind you first of all that the scope of the Breyne Act has already been extended and further extended by the case law. The law applies not only to the purchase of a house or apartment to be built, built or built, but also to the purchase of a house or apartment for housing or for professional purposes, with a corresponding contract for major renovation works, Article 1, second paragraph of the law. It is true that a purely contract for the adoption of substantial works of conversion or expansion does not fall under the law, while the owner also exposes himself to the same risks in this case, similar to those of an operation which does fall under the second paragraph of Article 1 of the Breyne Act. However, it can be found that the courts of the facts are responding to this gap. In fact, where renovation works involve a complete renewal of the building, in terms of its structure and volume, there is a case-law which concludes that the contract for adoption is in fact the subject of the construction of a house or an apartment, within the meaning of Article 1 (1) of the Breyne Law. I would also like to inform you that there is a new civil code in the pipeline in which a book VI will be inserted, entitled "Special Agreements'. This book will contain a chapter on the procurement contracts. In drawing up this book, consideration will be given to integrating the Breyne Act into this section and to adapting contracts to the needs of modern times, including any advance arrangements. Thank you, Mrs Lambrecht.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u58	Mr. Minister, according to investigating judge Karel Van Cauwenberghe, there is a need for more intense guidance during the prison residence and afterwards. This verdict came in response to the case of the murdered prison nurse, hence my questions. What instruments already exist for the support of prisoners and ex-convicts and what means are there against this? How will you improve this guidance and what additional resources will you make for this, so that incidents such as these can be avoided in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u59	Mrs Lambrecht, every person entering the prison has a reception with a doctor and a member of the board of the prison and a member of the psychosocial service. One of the objectives of these talks is to determine whether specific support is needed for the prisoner. During these talks it is also necessary to inform certain authorities about detention: the mutuality, the employer and so on are informed. The prisoner shall be informed from the reception but also through his detention period of the aid and service providers he may address, if he considers it necessary. There is mainly guidance in the areas of medical care and psychosocial care for vulnerable persons. The prison psychologist, often also the psychiatrist, plans regular interviews as needed and has regular contact with the services of the Communities. In cooperation with the Communities, the internal services of the prisons also support those convicted of having to prepare a reclassification plan. The psychosocial service shall assess the adequacy and feasibility of the reclassifying plan, not only with regard to the legal contraindications but also with regard to the personal capacities and resources of the detained person. In this context, the service shall lead the prisoner to the services of the Communities in so far as he or she himself did not take the initiative. Case consultations between the PSD and services of the Communities monitor the transfer of information and the coordination of guidance from both departments. Guidance and consultation focus mainly on reintegration pathways, implementation of intramural and extramural follow-up, development of professional or professional perspectives and progress of possible nighttime permits or penitentiary leave. In this way, the prisoner will be put in the best possible starting position to submit his reclassification plan to the SURB. If the release takes place under certain conditions, the counseling is taken over by the justice houses. In complex cases, consultation between the psychosocial services and the judicial assistant is organised in order to monitor the flow of information. Consultations at local and upper local level with the partners of the Communities' services are continuing to improve the allocation of prisoners and the exchange of information on individual files. I think it is important to strengthen this cooperation further. Meanwhile, the services are also preparing for the introduction of detention planning, which should also be able to boost the quality of such cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I may be wrong for it, but I do not think I have heard what resources are in favour of it and what additional resources you will use to improve it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u61	I would like to reply that an important part of the competence in this area rests with the services of the Communities. That is why I have also said that, through consultation at local and upper local level, I am working with the partners of the Communities' services to improve the functioning of this reintegration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u62	I note that I cannot get any figures on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u63	Mr President, Minister, the Council of Europe anti-corruption working group, the GRECO, adopted the fourth cycle evaluation report on Belgium in 2014. This cycle concerns the prevention of corruption against Members of Parliament, judges and prosecutors. The 2016 compliance report concluded that Belgium had not satisfactorily handled any of the total 15 recommendations, of which 7 were under your jurisdiction. The Belgian delegation was then given the opportunity to draw up a report on progress. Today, it appears that one of the 7 recommendations under your jurisdiction has been implemented satisfactorily. The other 6 recommendations have still not been implemented or have only been partially implemented. More specifically, these are the following recommendations. Firstly, to ensure as widely as possible that the judges of the administrative courts are subject at federal and regional level to appropriate safeguards and rules on independence, impartiality, integrity, supervision and applicable penalties. Secondly, reform the conditions for recourse to the alternate judges in Article 87 of the Code of the Court of Justice, who are required to perform the duties of judge or prosecutor. I've already questioned you about that. Thirdly, evaluate in due course the detailed rules for the distribution of cases between the courts. Fourthly, merge the deontological rules relating to judges and prosecutors and take any additional action to ensure that these rules are clearly imposed on all judges and prosecutors of the judicial order, irrespective of whether they are professional magistrates. Fifthly, the Supreme Court of Justice should issue a general, periodic report on the functioning of our courts and the services of the Public Prosecutor's Office, while at the same time developing its audit of research activities. Sixthly, to take measures to ensure that reliable and sufficiently detailed information and data are kept on disciplinary proceedings concerning judges and prosecutors, including any disclosure of the judicial procedure, taking into account anonymity. I would like to ask the following questions. Firstly, how come these 6 recommendations have still not been implemented? Secondly, has a deadline been set to do so? Thirdly, what measures are in the pipeline? I would like to have an overview of each recommendation quoted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u64	Mr President, Minister, the Group of States against Corruption (GRECO) of the Council of Europe published its fourth report on the prevention of corruption of parliamentarians, judges and prosecutors with regard to Belgium on 24 April. This report is again particularly critical of the measures taken by the Belgian State in this respect, and of the failure to follow up on previous GRECO recommendations, particularly in the area of justice. First, GRECO recommended ensuring, to the greatest extent possible, that judges of administrative tribunals at the federal and regional levels are subject to adequate guarantees and rules as to their independence, impartiality, integrity, supervision and applicable decisions. This recommendation was considered "not implemented" in the previous compliance report. In their response to GRECO, the Belgian authorities (in this case, the SPF Justice) did not report on any measures taken to implement this recommendation. Mr Minister, why did Belgium not mention any measures concerning the independence, impartiality and integrity of judges in administrative courts? Should this lack of communication to GRECO be interpreted as a lack of action by Belgium in this area? If not, can you tell me what measures are or will be implemented in the short term by our country to respond to this GRECO recommendation? Secondly, Mr Minister, GRECO had also recommended a reform of the conditions of appeal to the alternate judges of Article 87 of the Judicial Code, and possibly to the alternate judges of Article 156bis of the Judicial Code, who were called upon to act as judge or prosecutor in lieu of absent judges or prosecutors. This recommendation was considered "not implemented" in the previous compliance report, and remains so. In their reply to GRECO, the Belgian authorities report a decrease in the number of alternate judges and a preliminary draft amendment to the Judicial Code currently under discussion in the government on this subject. In this case, in our view, it is appropriate, in particular, to provide for a prohibition on the cumulation of the function of alternate judge with that of judicial representative. In 2009, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Major Tax Fraud Cases found that, in both civil and criminal tax cases, judges and alternate advisers are sometimes tax lawyers. This situation may constitute a conflict of interest. I have a few cases in mind. The Committee of Inquiry had recommended, in line with GRECO's request, to review the status of these judges or alternate advisers and to introduce a system of functional incompatibility for judges and alternate advisers. Mr Minister, why has Belgium not yet succeeded in these reforms concerning the use of alternate judges? Do you confirm the decrease in the number of alternate judges in recent years? How can it be explained? What provisions are laid down in this famous preliminary draft submitted by you to the Council of Ministers, in particular as regards the incompatibility of the status of an alternate judge with that of a legal representative or a lawyer? Are these provisions also intended to implement Recommendation 52 of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on major tax fraud cases? What is the status of this text? Do you have government support? How long will it be in this committee? In its previous report, GRECO had recommended that an assessment of the distribution of cases among judges should be carried out in a timely manner. GRECO noted with regret that no evaluation of these modalities had been carried out. GRECO recalled that this recommendation had been formulated in view of the absence of uniform criteria or practices for the distribution of cases ensuring an objective and random character for the distribution of cases within the courts. GRECO considers, like many others, this recommendation to be not implemented by Belgium. Minister, why has Belgium not implemented this recommendation and has it not evaluated how cases are distributed within the courts? How do you intend to set the criteria and adopt uniform practices for the distribution of cases to ensure that they are objective and random?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u65	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, Mr Gilkinet, the Group of States Against Corruption of the Council of Europe launched its fourth evaluation cycle in 2012 to prevent corruption of parliamentarians, judges and prosecutors. On 28 March 2014, the GRECO adopted 15 recommendations on this subject, which Belgium is required to implement. A follow-up report on the implementation of these recommendations was published in April 2018. These recommendations are particularly important in the light of the citizen's trust and the proper functioning of our institutions and the rule of law. The government therefore attaches considerable importance to this. GRECO makes seven recommendations on the ethics and corruption of judges and prosecutors. As regards the recommendation on judges in administrative courts, I refer you to the Minister for the Interior, who is responsible for this. The GRECO has established that Belgium has taken the necessary measures to strengthen the management function at the head of the courts and the public prosecutor's office and to make it more effective. The GRECO concludes that this Recommendation has been implemented satisfactorily. The distribution of cases among magistrates is based on an objective system in which the Judicial Code provides that the president of the court shall distribute them in accordance with the rules governing the allocation of cases and, in particular, with the rules of the court. GRECO argued that an evaluation of these rules should be carried out. How to organize it will be discussed. GRECO has also called for measures for the reform of recourse to deputy magistrates. Figures from the Supreme Court of Justice show that the number of deputy magistrates is falling. In 2004 there were 2 056 deputy judges, against 1 555 working magistrates of the seat and 812 working prosecutors. In 2017, these numbers fell to 1 532 alternate judges, compared to 1 557 working magistrates of the seat and 866 parquet magistrates. In 2015, there were 162 vacancies published, of which 82 were not candidates. In 2016, there were no vacancies. In 2017, there were 170 published vacancies, but in 124 cases there were no candidates. With regard to the recommendations concerning alternate judges, the assembly and legal anchoring of the ethical rules of the judiciary, the transparency of disciplinary jurisprudence and the strengthening of the audit and investigation activities of the Supreme Council of Justice, various consultations have been held in recent months, including with the Supreme Council of Justice, the Judicial Training Institute and the presidents of the courts. On this basis, a preliminary draft law has been drafted and will be submitted to the Council of State by June at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u66	Minister, as far as the first recommendation is concerned, you refer to the Minister of the Interior because it concerns judges in administrative courts. With regard to the other recommendations, I note that there is still much work to be done. I take note of the figures, particularly with regard to the deputy magistrates. In this context, it is not really about the number, but about the system, which has been receiving valid criticism for some time now. The confidence in justice, which you have also mentioned, is very important, but it is being put under pressure, because we do not have a transparent and sound system of deputy magistrates in our country today. I therefore call once again for a positive response to the recommendations of the GRECO as soon as possible and for the necessary steps to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answer. You will admit that the balance sheet is not glorious. I hear the work continues. I therefore encourage you to pursue it. What GRECO is telling us is that Belgium is not exemplary in the prevention of corruption. This must mobilise us, both on the aspects that depend on Parliament and on the aspects that depend on you, the justice system. In GRECO's recommendations on justice, it is the one on alternate judges that is most important to me, in any case. I pointed out that the committee of inquiry on major tax fraud cases had already pointed to this problem: the risk of conflict of interest, the use of judges who are not professional, who sometimes have duties in contradiction, in competition, in conflict of interest with those of the judge, the appearance of impartiality or impartiality simply. This is probably the result of a lack of funding for justice and a lack of judges in the courts, for which you are regularly questioned and asked for budgets. These budgets are not sufficient. It is one of the elements that also explains the backlog of cases and it is therefore essential to mobilize the means for fair justice. For justice to be fair, there must be a sufficient number of judges and professional judges. The use of alternate judges is a sparadrap, which is not enough to respond to such important issues and to heal ill justice in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u68	Question No 25340 by Mrs Özen is transformed into a written question, as is Question No 25380 by Mr Kir.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u69	Mr President, Minister, on 8 May 2018, the process of returning to a food scandal from a distant past took place. The BFSA is demanding more than EUR 15 million in compensation for the dioxin crisis that erupted 19 years ago, in spring 1999. At the end of the 1990s, carcinogenic dioxins had entered the food chain. Fogra had delivered contaminated fats with toxic PCBs to Verkest. While Verkest, so to speak, supplied rendered animal fat to mixing and feeding plants, it was in reality a mixture of animal and technical fat. As a result of the dioxin crisis, 7 million chickens and 60,000 pigs were slaughtered and destroyed. Almost 2 000 farms were blocked for months. The Court of Cassation confirmed the convictions as early as 2011. Yet it kept waiting until now for the trial. Minister, it was only 7 years after the criminal convictions became final that the trial on the handling of civil interests was held. Why has the treatment of civil interests been delayed for so long?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u70	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the matter to which you refer concerns the treatment of civil interests. The fixation and further handling of a file is largely determined by the bourgeois parties themselves. The criminal case has long been closed for the criminal court. The prosecution is also not a party to the civil proceedings file and is therefore impossible to speed up the case. In general terms, I would like to state that the attitude of one or more bourgeois parties often determines the progress and duration of such disputes. Of course, the attitude of those who have been definitively convicted of criminal offences and are now being appealed to as citizens also has a great influence. You will understand that I cannot rule in any way on an ongoing individual case between the parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u71	Mr President, Mr Minister, in response to a question I asked you on 29 November last on "the existence and possible state of progress of judicial information in a case involving a Belgian member of the Council of Europe", in this case Senator Destexhe, you informed me that "the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels has opened information in the context of this case. According to article 28quinquies of the Code of Criminal Investigation, it is for the King's prosecutor to make communications concerning information and its advancement when the public interest so requires." You concluded that "in keeping with the separation of powers, I cannot at present give more information", which I obviously respect as always. A few months have passed since then. A Council of Europe committee of inquiry concluded three weeks ago that the two Belgian members concerned, including Mr Destexhe, had violated the Council of Europe's Code of Conduct for Parliamentarians. The first sanction was the deactivation of Mr Destexhe's Council of Europe entry badge. In the face of a case which is so symbolically important and also uncomfortable for the representative concerned but also for the Belgian State which is indirectly called into question, sufficient means of investigation should be provided and sufficient time should be allowed to lead to a judicial decision, whatever it may be. That is why I would like to return to you at the risk of receiving the same response as in November. You know I'm the files. Minister, what can you tell me about the status of this judicial information? Has an investigating judge been or was she appointed to follow the case? How many investigators are working there? Is there any judicial cooperation with other States involved in this matter? Even if I know it's very random, do you have any idea how long this judicial information can be concluded, whatever the way it is?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u72	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, the Prosecutor-General of Brussels informed me that the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels had opened information in this case. The Central Office for the Suppression of Corruption of the Federal Judicial Police is in charge of the case. According to article 28quinquies of the Code of Criminal Investigation, it is up to the King's prosecutor to make communications concerning information and its advancement, when the public interest so requires. I cannot therefore give more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u73	Minister, I am not surprised at your answer. I simply hope, as in other dossiers, that there is more going on in this matter than what you say here in Parliament and that this is followed. I think it is uncomfortable for the person concerned to be questioned and equally uncomfortable for our democracy to remain with a doubt in the face of such serious accusations of corruption. This kind of thing needs to be cleared up as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u74	Minister, a royal decree adding bets on virtual matches to the list of allowed games of chance in Belgium has just been published and entered into force. While it can be seen that it has the merit of clarifying the situation of virtual sports bets and getting this type of bet out of a non-right zone, we can equally worry about the influence of this new authorisation on the addiction to gambling and on the real ability of public authorities to control the actual randomity of these virtual parties. You might as well have decided to ban them, even if we know that they exist abroad and that borders are very relative in terms of gambling. In particular, this order allows the servers necessary for the making of these bets to be located abroad, which raises questions as to the actual control capacity of these bets. Similarly, control protocols and technical specifications for these games still have to be drawn up while the order is already in force. Minister, can you tell me whether the opinion of the Higher Council of Health – which has just given a very well-documented opinion on pathological gambling – has been asked and taken into account with regard to this royal decree and its possible consequences on gambling dependence? What specific measures have been taken in relation to this new type of game to prevent addiction to gambling? In addition to the maximum hourly loss of EUR 12.5, was a minimum period set between the time the bet was made and the result of the bet? Under what conditions will a gambling operator have to answer in order to locate a computer server abroad? In this case, how will the control by the Belgian authorities on the said servers be organised? What about the additional control and technical specification protocols still to be drafted? Within what time frame will they be established? By whom? Will gaming operators be allowed to offer such bets pending these protocols? On what basis? What additional human and technical means have been put at the disposal of the gambling commission to deal with this situation and this new control burden?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u75	Mr Gilkinet, an optional opinion on this royal decree was not requested from the Higher Health Council. However, the content of the decree takes into account the dependence on games, in particular by providing transparent information to players and by providing for a limitation of the average hourly loss. In parallel with this royal decree, in terms of the protection of players, other initiatives are under way, such as the reduction of the number of betting agencies, by royal decree, or the introduction of EPIS control when accessing betting agencies, by bill. In these agencies, a card reader will also be provided to check the age of the player. In order to be able to install a computer server abroad, the operator will have to have an E-license.The Commission's checks will be carried out on the basis of an expert assessment incorporating a number of requirements as specified in the Royal Decree. There is no minimum period between the bet and the outcome of the bet. If this seems appropriate, however, a minimum duration may be provided for under the technical protocol of the gambling commission. The technical protocols will be proposed by the Commission's Technical Evaluation Service. They will then be presented to the members of the gambling commission for approval and will be published after acceptance. The Royal Decree allows betting agencies to organise virtual bets from the moment they declare, within two months of the date of publication of this Decree, the number of automatic devices available to them for virtual sporting events. In order to strengthen the Commission's team, a staff plan has been drawn up and approved. In particular, eight additional monitors will be recruited.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u76	Minister, unless I am distracted, you have not answered my question about the fact that servers may be located abroad. It's one of the many reasons I'm concerned about gambling addiction. This is the eternal debate: should games of chance be accepted and regulated and allowed to develop abroad or banned or left unchecked? I see that the decision is not a simple one. However, I note that there is no time limit between the bet and its outcome. It seems to me that this would have been a smart way to reduce the risk of addiction to games. You say that this can be foreseen in the framework of the additional arrangements to be made, but they will only be taken after a long debate, I fear, with the game operators who are already, after two months after publication of the decree, authorised to propose such games. I understand that eight additional controllers can be hired to the gambling committee. I hope it will be effective. When I asked you earlier about this subject, I think I agreed that you told me that the framework was not completed. Nevertheless, I invite you to be very attentive to the development of this type of game, to the evaluation of this decree as well as to the prevention in general of addiction to gambling, which is a social problem striking too many families.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u77	Mr Minister, the Paris prosecutor, Mr François Molins, alarmed at the end of April about a micro-financing of terrorism financed by small sums but in large numbers. "There were 416 donors involved in the financing of Daesh that were identified in France," he said on Thursday 26 April, on the sidelines of a conference on the financing of international terrorism. His services also identified "320 collectors, mainly based in Turkey and Lebanon, through which jihadists in Syria or Iraq could receive funds". In particular, the Paris prosecutor was alarmed at the micro-financing of terrorism fuelled by these modest sums, but in large numbers, I repeat. The President of the French Republic, Emmanuel Macron, who concluded the conference held at the OECD headquarters on the financing of international terrorism, said that same day: "Terror must be dried up at the root: it feeds on trafficking in human beings, drugs or weapons." He could have cited works of art. "There is always an economic underlying. To be effective, we must commit to transparency and mobilization." Mr Macron also welcomed the fact that the 80 or so ministers present, representing 72 countries, had finalized a Paris Agenda, with a list of strong commitments: "The sharing of information, the fight against anonymity of transactions, the identification of sources of financing, the anticipation of the diversion of new financial instruments, collective commitment to vulnerable and failing countries." Minister, can you tell me whether Belgium was represented at this meeting in Paris and whether it is a party to this Paris Agenda? What concrete measures have emerged or will result from this commitment? Were Belgian donors involved in the financing of Daesh, even in a modest way, able to be identified through the measures taken - in the same way as France has identified with regard to French nationals? How much? For what total amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u78	Mr Gilkinet, on 25 and 26 April 2018, took place in Paris at the invitation of French President Macron, the first international conference to combat the financing of the Islamic State and Al-Qaeda. I have represented Belgium there with the President and staff of the CTIF (Cellule de Traitement des Informations Financières) as well as with foreign diplomats. I participated in the discussion group on criminalization and cooperation between police and intelligence agencies in the fight against the financing of terrorism. The conclusions of the conference were set out in an action plan, to which Belgium of course fully subscribes. The Action Plan aims to increase cooperation at the international level, including on the exchange of operational and strategic information, criminalizing cooperation with the private sector and combating the anonymity of transactions, particularly with regard to new technologies. However, Belgium has already adopted a number of measures to this end, such as the extension of criminalizations concerning the financing of terrorism and terrorist groups. The lifting of professional secrecy between the CTIF, the intelligence services and the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM) already allows full exchange of information through the Pot-Pourri Act. Cooperation between the Public Prosecutor's Office and CTIF has been improved through the Act of 18 September 2017. Common databases have been established. Currently, the Counter-Terrorism Financing Platform of the Intelligence and Security Coordination Committee is exploring the possibility of bringing together intelligence services, OCAM, CTIF and representatives of the private sector with a view to directly exchanging information and thus improving cooperation with the private sector in the search for suspicious operations. During the period 2013-2017 included, CTIF identified some 100 Belgian money transfer donors, especially via Western Union, who sent money to suspicious recipients or intermediaries who were mainly in countries bordering conflict zones. In most cases, Belgian donors maintained friendly or family ties with combatants active in the conflict zone. There was a total amount of about 200 000 euros. The files were transmitted to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office in accordance with the Anti-Money Laundering Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u79	Minister, thank you. In particular, I note the latest information on the number of suspicious transactions to conflict zones, and this amount of €200,000. I think we need to attack terrorism in the portfolio, prevent its financing. Perhaps it would be more effective than putting soldiers on the streets. I hear that there is an action plan in which Belgium participates. I must remind you, as I mentioned in my question, that the Federal Police Art Trafficking Unit has been dismantled. However, we know that such trafficking is a real or potential source of terrorist financing. I think these are probably not the most visible but probably the most effective actions. Those aimed at combating the financing of terrorism. If, beyond what you have already decided or implemented, you succeed in convincing your colleague, Minister Jambon, to put in place this "Art and Antiquities" cell and take other actions against the financing of terrorism, I think you will do a useful job.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u80	Minister, on 27 October last the Council of Ministers approved the principle of setting up an international and English-speaking commercial tribunal in Brussels to deal with international commercial disputes between enterprises. On March 14, the Supreme Council of Justice (SCJ) gave a very negative opinion on this project. For the Supreme Council of Justice, the very existence of this new "court" and the status of its members raise constitutional problems. The CSJ considers the text of the draft to be of deplorable legal quality; according to the CSJ, some of the rules laid down are contrary to European law. Finally, the financing of the Brussels International Business Court (BIBC) raises questions. The government claims that it will be responsible to the parties who choose to use it, but the BIBC will be chaired by advisers of the Brussels Court of Appeal and managed by the Registry, which may well lead to more work for an already overloaded Brussels court of appeal, particularly at the level of the Brussels Court of Appeal. I've already asked you about this congestion. I assume that the Council of State was questioned by the government on the same project. I would like to take stock with you of the state of play of this project to create a Brussels International Business Court. If you tell me you gave up the idea, there's no problem for me. To what extent has the government decided to take into account the very critical opinion of the YSC in this regard? In particular, what answers can you provide on the constitutionality of the scheme and its impact on the functioning of the Brussels Court of Appeal? Has the advice of the Council of State been sought on this project? Can you sum it up in substance or give it to me if you prefer? To what extent has the government taken into account the continuation of this project? I heard you ignored a very negative opinion of the Council of State. I'm curious to hear you on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u81	Mr Gilkinet, I can inform you that the draft law establishing the Brussels International Business Court has been tabled and that it is contained in Parliamentary document 3072/001, which you are now entitled to consult. This document, which contains the full text of the opinion delivered by the Council of State on 2 March, should enable you to see that the text of the draft law has been substantially adapted, in order to respond in particular to the criticisms of the Council of State and the Supreme Council of Justice. With regard to the objections to unconstitutionality raised by these two bodies, the preliminary draft provided for the Minister of Justice to appoint a President and a Vice-President from among the members of the contract court. However, the two bodies have held that the President of the BIBC is the president of a commercial court, so he must - like the presidents of the other commercial courts - be appointed by the King on the proposal of the Commission for the appointment and appointment of the Supreme Council of Justice, in accordance with Article 151 § 5 paragraph 1 of the Constitution. As for the Vice-President of the BIBC, the Council of State considers that he should, as Vice-President of a court, under the same constitutional section, paragraph 4, be appointed by the BIBC within it. These opinions are followed, as there is no doubt about the independence of the judges concerned. However, given the nature of the President's duties and in order not to have to wait too long for the latter to be replaced by a successor of a different linguistic role, a Chief of Staff may be appointed for a period of ten years. There are two heads of corps of different linguistic roles appointed by the King on the proposal of the Supreme Council of Justice. Both can replace each other each year as current presidents, in the same way as in the Constitutional Court. As regards the charges for the Brussels Court of Appeal, it is true that at the beginning it will be the Registry of that Court which will act as Registry for the BIBC, since we cannot know how many cases will be dealt with by the latter. However, the organisation of a separate registry may be considered at a later stage. However, this burden – as well as the commitment of the professional magistrates who will preside over the seat of the BIBC – will be offset in the context of the allocation of staff resources within the judiciary, by the financial contribution of the parties to the BIBC, who will pay substantial registration fees to cover the particular costs and operation of the BIBC.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u82	Minister, you are informing me that the text is available. It has been since May 15, that is yesterday. My question was tabled on Monday. [[The honor is, then, except for me.]] I'll check it out carefully. But I must repeat to you my great scepticism with regard to the state of our justice, his inability to say the right on more or less important issues today, to get involved in this adventure. I understand that this new court will be self-financing somewhere, depending on the cases that will be dealt with there. But what is this justice that will be interested in the future only in cases that can bring back money? Not that I discourage you from investing in the fight against financial crime at the judicial level. I ask you about this very regularly. But the cases that are being dealt with at the level of peace justice, which concern neighbourhood conflicts or less important things, or the family court, also deserve resources. No doubt, they do not yield anything from a financial point of view. But they can bring a lot from a societal point of view. In any case, they allow the prevention of much more serious events. Philosophically, the idea of establishing a Brussels international business court seems rather saugrenous, given the current state of our justice and the incapacity of the state, or the lack of resources that the state gives itself to finance it properly. Mr. Minister of Justice, what the hell are you going to do in this mess? I'm really asking myself the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u83	Question No 25452 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u84	Mr President, Minister, despite the clear legislation on professional secrecy and the cases in which this can be broken, we are nevertheless adopting a different approach on the ground. I refer in particular to Article 458b of the Criminal Code. As regards intra-family violence, there is a chain approach for each province involving all actors. It's about parquet, C.A.W., police, child abuse trust centers, and so on. However, I am told that there are very different ways of dealing with professional secrecy during that case-by-case consultation. While in Antwerp, for example, virtually all information about a particular family is shared, there is no free speech in West and East Flanders. Minister, are you aware that the same approach to the chain approach to intra-family violence is not applied everywhere? What do you think the difference is? Do you think it is appropriate that there should be a uniform working method, for example by means of a letter from the College of Attorneys General? If so, what initiative are you considering? If not, what are your considerations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u85	Mr President, the recent COL 4/2018 of the College of Attorneys General on the case-consultation and professional secrecy of 15 March 2018 contains guidelines for the Public Prosecutor's Office on the application of Article 458ter of the Criminal Code and will increase uniformity. It is also essential that application also takes into account the needs, specificities and opportunities in the field. The roll-out of the case coordination in the context of intra-family violence in Flanders is contained in a letter from my Flemish colleague Vandeurzen. There is an already well developed chain approach. Whether or not within the context of a family justice center, the application of the case consultation in all its forms may differ from the places where that is much less the case. The new Article 458b of the Criminal Code provides a legal framework within which the existing pilot projects can evolve or be developed and consolidated, whether on a legal or legal basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u86	Mr Minister, I hope that the COL and the further roll-out will ensure that the same work is done throughout this case-by-case discussion. Information must be shared rather than working side by side, which sometimes results in family dramas.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u87	Minister, during the plenary session of 26 April, I asked Secretary of State Theo Francken about unaccompanied minors. Last year there were 618 missing unaccompanied minors, of which only 124 were registered with Child Focus. In his reply, the Secretary of State pointed out that he was responsible for the reception and residence procedure, but that the succession of these minors was a task for the Justice Department, in particular the Voogdij Service, and of course also the public prosecutor. He also stated that four fifths of the disappearances take place during the first orientation phase, in which the medical age determination has not yet been completed. At that time, young people cannot be obliged to remain in a reception structure. It was pointed out, as the Voogdij Service does, that the sharp increase, almost doubling in a year, is due to the new policy. Young people are more encouraged to apply for asylum. Any disappearance would now also be consistently recorded and reported, unlike in the past. However, Child Focus criticises the inadequate functioning of the Task Force on Disappearances of Underage Foreigners, which was set up last year. Its task is to increase and improve cooperation among the relevant services across the country. Cooperation agreements must be concluded between the DVZ, the Voogdij, Fedasil, the public prosecutor and the police. So far, only one protocol has been concluded, with Brussels. The Secretary of State acknowledged that it was not easy to find a consensus on a revision of the protocols, but he stated that this should be resolved by the end of the legislature. Minister, what initiatives have been taken from the Ministry of Justice, or are planned, to improve the follow-up of unaccompanied minor refugees in general and the protocols in particular? Given the importance of a trusted person who can assist the minor refugee during the asylum procedure, how many guardians are there today? What is the evolution in recent years? Do you consider any initiatives in relation to these guardians in the sense of better training?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u88	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, it is important to distinguish between unaccompanied minors who apply for asylum and spontaneously present themselves in the Foreign Affairs Office, after which they are immediately received in a federal reception centre, and those who do not apply for asylum and are usually found by the police. The risk of disappearance in this latter group is high because they are often on their way to neighbouring countries, in particular the United Kingdom. These young people are usually over 16 or there is evident doubt about their declared minors. They often disappear in the first days after their arrival in the orientation and observation center. They are therefore refusing the proposed guardianship system and the means of protection provided by the Aliens Act because they wish to continue their journey. The authority or person, e.g. the guardian who becomes aware of the disappearance of an unaccompanied minor, shall notify the local police. It is the authority of the police and the public prosecutor to conduct the investigation into the disappearances. The Voogdij department takes the following initiatives. Firstly, within the Disappearance Task Force, the service is contributing to the extension to the entire country of the November 2008 protocol on the handling of disappearance files of unaccompanied minors. Today this applies only to the police zones Brussels, Kampenhout, Steenokkerzeel and Zemst. In addition, the Voogdij department participates in the Disappearance Task Force in a better and more uniform registration procedure for all unaccompanied minors. Second, in 2017, a special pool of guardians was created and trained to take custody involving trafficking in human beings or trafficking in human beings. Thirdly, when there are clear indications of trafficking in human beings, unaccompanied minors are immediately brought to a specialised centre for trafficking in human beings, e.g. Esperanto. Today there are 561 guardians. Before the 2015 migration crisis, there were only 240. At the end of this month 88 additional guardians will be active so that 649 guardians will be active on 1 June. At my request, the staff framework of the Voogdij service was extended from 18 to 32 staff in 2016. As a result, guardians are evaluated annually, complaints about guardians are dealt with more quickly and better support can be provided to guardians. The Voogdij department has concluded a government contract with the CAW Brabantia and the Red Cross Flanders for 4 years to coach and train guardians. In 2017, the Voogdij department organised various training courses, including on trafficking in human beings, family reunification and deradicalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u89	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u90	Question No 25285 by Mr Clarinval is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u91	Thank you Mr President, good morning Minister: I am now leaving the Follow-up Committee of the Committee of Inquiry on Attacks. We were in camera, so I will not reveal what I have heard, but we were hearing from the OCAM on its report on the formation of imams. I urge you to take note of what has been said, both with regard to the training that is being disseminated, and the role of the Muslim Executive in this regard. I think there are some comments that have been made that may call into question the direction taken by the government. I'm just asking you about this formation of imams. You have seen in the oral question that I have tabled that I want to know the work you are doing with the Muslim Executive, the agreements you may have made concerning work on training imams in Belgium or equivalences of diplomas that could be awarded by imams from abroad. It was a will of the Muslim Executive before the change of the presidency. It was an agreement, it seems, that you had with this presidency. So, where are we with this protocol? Has there been any contact you have made with the Executive again? What's the status? We know that, at the same time, the Communities – and this is their role in terms of the competence of the trainings – have worked a great deal on the training of imams. In particular, there is all the work (which I know best) carried out by the French Community of Belgium, surrounded by academics and with the participation of the Executive and a whole series of other personalities, with the desire to work precisely on a training that is adapted to Belgian realities and you are aware that there was a desire to create an Institute for the promotion of training on Islam. Minister, what are you doing about this? Have there been any contacts with the French Community? Is there consistency between the two approaches? Can both projects coexist? I think that, in view of the information recently published in the press, it is important, and even urgent, to move forward on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u92	Mr President, thank you. Mrs Onkelinx, one of the main tasks of all bodies representing recognized religions is to ensure the proper functioning of their ministers of worship. In order to enable it to achieve its objectives, in recent years I have supported the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, among other things, by increasing support for the various formations intended for the imams in office. In addition, the Belgian Muslim Executive (EMB) was supported in the development of training for future imams in close collaboration with universities. The aim is to start this training again in the course of this year. To this end, the EMB maintains close contacts with the federated entities, in particular with the French Community. Article 21, paragraph 1, of the Constitution regulates the independence of religions and the State. Under these provisions, the EMB itself takes decisions on the content of training programmes, its practical organisation, the choice of teachers and the organisation of examinations. I congratulated the new President of the Executive on Saturday and invited him to a contact meeting. The training and co-existence of the Institute for the Promotion of Trainings on Islam will, of course, feed our topics of discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-16-54-commissie-ic897x.u93	Mr Minister, before taking any decision and going further on this matter, I solemnly ask you to speak about it in camera, for example in the follow-up committee on the attacks, since the information we have received, I think, may lead you to change the direction in which you have committed yourself, or, in any case, to take guarantees to guide the training work in order to protect the training itself and the quality of what is being taught. I will also ask Mr Dewael to schedule this meeting in camera in a short time so that we can discuss the issue calmly and without any media coverage.
