ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u2	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Isabelle Galant, Benoît Friart, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gautier Calomne.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u3	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (2884/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2884/1) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Johan Klaps, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u4	Mr President, I ask that the competent ministers, those who have been involved in the work in committee, be present for the discussion of this motion for a resolution. They were heard in both committees. I hope, and I suppose I am not the only one, that I will be able to address them at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u5	Mr Nollet, I must tell you that this is a motion for a resolution. It is therefore normal for the government to be represented in the Chamber. The minister's here. If you want to say that Minister Marghem must be here, I must say that she is apologised for this Thursday. This was announced in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u6	Two ministers are competent. They were both heard in committee. These are Minister Peeters and Minister Marghem. Both had plans in this area. Although Minister Marghem is not here, Minister Peeters was present earlier. I'm sorry, but the government has to respect Parliament a little bit. On matters which, of course, are private Members of Parliament, but whose extremely important issues affect the government; and while the government refuses the idea of working on the basis of a law and sticks to a resolution; it seems to me, if only out of courtesy, necessary that the competent ministers be there. I am referring to Minister Marghem, but as far as Minister Peeters is concerned, who is the other competent minister, it seems to me that he should be present at least out of respect for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u7	Mr. Nollet, you have the right to request the presence of Minister Peeters under the terms of the Rules of Procedure. But I must say that we are used to discussing motions for resolutions in the presence of the government. The minister's here. I myself am not going to ask for the presence of either Minister Peeters or Minister Marghem, who is apologised for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u8	Mr President, the agenda contains a resolution and a bill that has been recalled. For a bill, I imagine that Minister Peeters could at least come back for a case, on which we have been working for more than two years, with hearings in committee where he was present, as well as in the Public Health Committee, where Minister Marghem was present. I hear she's apologised. I take note of that. Perhaps the planned obsolescence is already beginning now? I would like Minister Peeters to be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u9	Mr President, as I understand it, Mrs Marghem is apologised for the day. Mr. Peeters, obviously, is not making himself available. First of all, I must say that I fully support the request of my two colleagues. I think it is essential that the competent ministers be present to discuss it. Perhaps what we could do is postpone the matter to next week and ensure that the ministers concerned are there. It seems to me that this would be a constructive way of solving the problem we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect, we must be absolutely clear. Firstly, this is a resolution. It's a matter of Parliament. It is therefore normal for the government to be represented here in the Chamber, as is the case with Minister De Block. Secondly, Mr de Lamotte, I think you're wrong. Yes, this is a project but under Rule 88 of our Rules, for which the presence of the government is not required. I have to tell colleagues who ask that they have the right to ask for the presence of a minister – we will see – but in the meantime, I propose to continue our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u11	Mr President, I am a little surprised that there is not at least one answer to Mr Laaouej's suggestion. In any case, I agree with the suggestion he makes. It seems to me in a good way beyond the question of the Rules of Procedure or not of the Rules of Procedure. I would still like to inform you about this, because you have not been able to follow the entire work in committee and that is normal. If we are busy discussing a resolution and not a bill, it is because the government considered that it was not necessary, that it was not appropriate, that it was not necessary, that it was not desirable, to legislate. This is the heart of the debate: yes or no, do we legislate on the issue or do we satisfy ourselves with a single resolution? This discussion must be conducted in the presence of at least one of the competent ministers, which is why the honourable Member's proposal to postpone the debate for a week is not within eight days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u12	Mr President, if the groups do not object to the postponement of the item, why not do so? Why not rely on the common sense of all groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u13	We cannot change the agenda of the plenary, except with the agreement of a majority of the members present. We did not ask for an amendment to the agenda. I therefore have no right to change it: it is accepted first in the Conference of Presidents and then in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore suggest that the Minister's presence be requested if that is what he really wants. The Rules of Procedure provide for this possibility. As long as there is no such question, I suggest that we continue the work. In addition, we have a tradition of being satisfied with the presence of the government in the discussion of resolutions. The government is present. I have tried to make it clear to Mr de Lamotte that Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure deals with a committee's proposal to reject a bill or bill. This is not about a minister coming to defend a bill. So clarity is needed here. I understand that the question is being asked, but I propose that we stick to our agenda as agreed, and therefore proceed to the discussion of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I see that the subject is of interest and passion to the House and it is important because, for the past two years, our Committee on Economic Affairs has been working on this complex subject of planned obsolescence. As a reminder, it is for a manufacturer to deliberately reduce the life of a product. This may include the voluntary introduction of a defect, fragility, programmed shutdown or the non-availability of spare parts. The subject is important because it actually concerns every citizen. It is for this reason that we have decided to table this resolution, which asks the government to take action. In particular, make spare parts available by the manufacturer, in a minimum time and at a proportionate price. Directs consumers to provide information on the life of a product, as well as on its repair possibilities. Above all, however, it will be essential to take these measures in coordination with European countries so that they can be applied to all Member States. We need coordinated initiatives at European level in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u15	Mr Friart, I can hear you well, but France, what has it done? It decided on its own by a bill before the French National Assembly. She didn't wait for Europe! They decided and the appeals began to fall before the French courts. So your argument, Mr. Friart, excuse me, but it doesn't hold. Why wait for Europe when our neighbours have not done so and have decided on their own? Is this a chill on your part?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to know that France is a large country producing equipment which can be targeted by this planned obsolescence. This is not necessarily the case for Belgium, which imports this type of equipment in large quantities which may be affected by the planned obsolescence. It is therefore very good and very useful that our country can benefit from a European-wide reflection and law. Anyway, we also need to remember...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u17	Mr Friart, for a moment, Mr Calvo is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u18	Mr Friart, I can tolerate a great deal, but if anyone comes here to say that Belgium is only a small country, I tend to speak. Are you serious? Is that the only answer you can give when you find that a number of countries themselves are taking initiative, regulating themselves, and themselves are competing with built-in aging? Is it really the response of the MR, of the government party par excellence, of the party supplying the Prime Minister, that Belgium is only a small country? Is that the argument that the MR will use in this debate to keep the boat from a legal framework that has been under discussion for years in the absence of your ministers, who are, moreover, absent from this debate today? The MR's response to this is that Belgium is a small country. Is that the argument of the MR, Mr Friart, that we are a small country while you stand there with the tricolor flag pinned up? Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Friart stands there with the tricolor flag as a pin on his costume. This shows you, Mr Friart, to be a proud Belgian, but in the chair you say that Belgium is a small country and cannot take the lead. Well, our group totally disagrees with that. Our country is capable of great things and should play a leading, dynamic role in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u19	In Belgium, we have few producers of objects that can be targeted by the planned obsolescence. These are generally products imported from other European countries, hence the interest of legislating here at European level. It should also be remembered that the legal arsenal...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u20	May I ask you to let Mr. Friart continue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u21	Mr Friart, I am sorry, but after more than three years of serious work in our committee, we cannot agree to hear that. This is really a social issue for employment, the environment, a new economy of repair and recovery which is a major issue, even in our country, which is a large country. We can set an example. We can't let you say that! You don't care about the work that was done in committee. I'm asking you to reconsider your position. It's a comedy! This is a tragic end to what happened in committee: we are being removed from the power to decide at the level of parliament and the ball is being sent back to the federal government and to Europe! While we can now take action in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u22	Mr President, I think colleagues are right. I suggest Mr. Friart start his speech again by removing that part. We forget what has been said and he starts talking about the substance of the case, which seems much better to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u23	I'm still reading. In any case, there will be a vote afterwards. Majority and minority will have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u24	I find the introduction of Mr Friart's speech completely inappropriate. Mr President, in this Parliament you presided over the inauguration of a Repair Café in the context of the fight against planned obsolescence. At this opening three weeks or a month ago, members of the MR applauded to break this initiative. And then, when it comes to moving to a piece of legislation and not a resolution, we step back in front of the obstacle. Mr President, I find Mr Friart's speech insulting for the activities that you yourself conducted as President of the Assembly for the Repair Café.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u25	I do not share your point of view and therefore move on to Mr Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u26	Mr President, thank you. I would remind you that the existing legal arsenal on unfair commercial practices already provides a response to this phenomenon. In fact, provisions have also been introduced in the Code of Economic Law in order to give more power to inspection services. With sufficient evidence, they can impose the burden of proof on the manufacturer and require the manufacturer to have his product analysed by an independent laboratory. Products may also, in this case, be withdrawn from the market. Finally, our group wishes to reflect on the repairability of goods in the context of the circular economy. We believe that there are several advantages to this repair. It has a positive impact on employment in Belgium; the European Commission estimates that reparation measures would create 1,300 jobs – local – in our country. Secondly, the repair is not delocalized; it develops in the region where consumption takes place. Finally, repairing allows the consumer to achieve long-term savings. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the majority and of the opposition, I would ask you to support our motion for a resolution. It is a realistic approach to a problem whose solution does not necessarily lie solely at national level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u27	I understand that Mr Friart's role is not easy because he is sent like a suicide bomber to defend the indefensible. So I understand that very well. This debate is not very glorious. It seems to me that there is a willingness to legislate in this area. Mr Friart said that a reflection would be open, but it had been open for three years. I think that civil society is waiting for answers to the questions of planned obsolescence. We should no longer be thinking about the subject, but we should be legislating, as France has done. I would like to recall that at times, the majority has asked for procedural votes so that we do not move forward with the consideration of bills on the grounds that they are awaiting consideration. After having waited a long time, we received it. Then, very interesting and enlightening hearings were held. We have thus learned about good practices in some companies, whether at home or in France. Then the majority drafted a motion for a resolution, tabled by the MR, in order to save some time. The same party told us in committee that an initiative would be taken in the form of a bill, with a view to reaching a consensus among the majority. Unfortunately, we must note that it has not been found, despite the manifest will of the MR. As in other cases, for lack of consensus, we don't move forward, we block and we go around in circles. That's what we're doing right now. The MR thus failed to convince its partners of the majority of the need to move forward on a legislative text, in which we were all prepared to participate beyond the majority-opposition divide. The will to move forward was present. Since a majority proposal could not be tabled, we come back to a gossip motion for a resolution that refers responsibility back to Europe. Therefore, as far as we are concerned, we will not support it because of its insanity. Honestly, this is an unglorious debate. Time, Mr Friart, is no longer at the beginning of a reflection, but at the beginning of the legislative process. Unfortunately, the majority will not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u28	Mr President, Minister De Block, I am sincerely pleased to be here with you to raise an extremely important issue: that of planned or organised obsolescence. Madam Minister, I am sure that you have already witnessed phenomena of organised obsolescence. Indeed, who did not, for example, have his toaster that stopped after eight months without being able to repair it? Who didn't have a printer deciding at some point that the cartridge was empty, while there was still ink there? Who didn't have a garment that got deformed after two washings; a washing machine with a bearing blocked, but making it impossible to repair; a dishwasher that stops after 2,500 cycles; a gsm that slows down simply because it has been updated? Since Mr Peeters and Mrs Marghem have delegated you here, I am convinced, Madam Minister, that you have also encountered situations of organised obsolescence, as have our colleagues. Mr. Miller, I'm really glad you're here. Like me, you will recall a debate in committee on 7 October 2015, in which you shared your own experience in this area with all colleagues. Do you remember this situation? This is set out in point 1.17 of the committee's report. You said at the time: "Mr. Nollet is better when he deals with the issue in general without stress in questioning Mrs. Marghem". As I can't do today, I take this opportunity to share with you what you were telling me at the time. I quote: "He has raised an aspect that needs to be taken into account. This is organised obsolescence, which is a real problem. I'll give you an anecdote. Two months ago, since I'm very attentive to my laundry, I bought a washing machine. When I asked the saleswoman if the device was going to work properly – being a man alone, I have to take care of my business myself – the saleswoman replied that, anyway, we would see each other in three years' time because this device contains a chip." And you concluded your speech in committee by saying, "I was a little surprised." At that time, I came to see you and said to you: "Mr Miller, this is an extremely important subject which a priori did not seem political but which allowed us to envisage a political solution to your problem of man alone in front of your washing machine." I thought to myself: work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u29	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u30	Mr. Miller, you'll come in later. I said to myself: work together; there is a way to have an ambitious vision for Belgium. I wasn't thinking about Mr. Friart at the time. I thought that perhaps there was a way to draw up a legislative framework like what France imagined, on the basis of a UMP proposal, this party well to the right in France. The UMP was considering introducing into legislation elements that you refuse to introduce today. This is obviously a shame because it will not solve Mr Miller's washing machine problem. That is what I am holding on to, and I still wish to take advantage of this final moment in plenary to try to convince you. There's Mr. Miller's problem, but he's not the only one. If we look more broadly, Test-Achats you know well, Mr. Miller, has conducted an investigation and opened a kind of call center in this area so that all the gentlemen and ladies in the world can report situations of organized obsolescence. Do you know how many denunciations, problems have been reported to him since Mr Miller's famous statement to Parliament? There are 7,321 similar problems to the one you experienced, Mr. Miller. So you are not the only one who has suffered from this organized obsolescence. This is – it seems to me – a quantitatively important reason enough to lead you to think and to support the idea that a resolution is insufficient. This problem of obsolescence – you have rightly said – is not new, but the importance of this problem is growing and, above all, the acceleration of organised obsolescence processes is only confirmed from year to year, including in the increasingly subtle nature of the mechanisms that are introduced, whether it is a mechanism to prevent any form of easy repair, a mechanism, for example, that prevents the replacement of batteries for certain electrical devices, a mechanism that accelerates ageing, a mechanism that reduces the robustness of the different devices, a mechanism that causes dependence or organizes obsolescence, by a chip, after three years, or a mechanism that renders earlier versions incompatible. All these phenomena exist. Test-Achats identified them. They obviously have a whole series of extremely important consequences. Each year in Belgium, 111,000 tonnes of electronic waste were collected. This represents about 10 kilos per capita. At the global level, the annual consumption of raw materials is 60 billion tonnes. This figure has increased by 50 per cent over 30 years. The OECD estimates that with such growth rates, reserves of copper, lead, nickel, silver, tin or zinc will not exceed twenty to thirty years. This means that it is time to take up this problem in order to legislate and act. Every year, what is called the Overshoot Day, that is, the time when the planet uses the reserves accumulated for millennia and goes beyond the annual resources, shifts over time. In 1970, it was December 23; in 1980, November 3; in 2000, October 4. Now we are at the beginning of August! If everyone were to work with our consumption and production models, we would need four planets. We don't have them. The phenomena of organized obsolescence create a triple prejudice. Damage to nature: overexploitation of natural resources. A harm to consumers: this greatly reduces their purchasing power because it forces them to have to buy regularly dishwashers, washing machines or other appliances which could last much longer and which in the past lasted much longer. This also reduces localized jobs in our home since organized obsolescence favours job relocation. In short, obsolescence is a source of waste, pollution, loss of purchasing power and relocation. For a government that defends so much the principle of employment with its "jobs, jobs, jobs", I am surprised that it is not as attentive to the figures I have quoted in committee and that I will recite here, as they seem important to me. For 10,000 tons of waste in a landfill, it's a job. For the same 10 000 tonnes of waste in the recycling sector, 36 jobs are involved. However, 10,000 tonnes of waste in the re-use and repair sector represent 296 jobs. So, make the choice: small brace, like Mr. Friart? 10,000 tons, one job. Medium braquet? 10 000 tonnes, 36 jobs. Or follow our ambition for employment, through the relocation of certain forms of production and of certain forms of repair: 296 jobs for the same volume of waste. Anyway, Mr. Miller won't be the only one to win. A large number of young and younger people seeking employment in this type of sector will also benefit. In fact, the ministers had carried out a study on the subject. Did the government receive it, Mrs. De Block? Ministers Marghem and Peeters, in order to save a little time, as the president recalled earlier, had asked PriceWaterhouseCoopers to carry out a study on the circular economy, and in particular on what the organised obsolescence brought about in this context. As you can see, the figures have impressed, including the Economy Committee, which is used to the figures. If the entire system of the circular economy were deployed in this small country, as Mr Friart says, or in this large country as we see it, the added value could be 7 billion 300 million by 2030. Moreover, this would reduce greenhouse gases by 48%. Win-win, win-win, and this is the government's study. I hope, Madam Minister, that you have received it, even if you were not the competent minister. I hope your colleagues have passed it on to you. The key is to find a potential of 100,000 jobs from a linear economy to a circular economy. It's signed: PwC. I think that would be worth more than just a resolution. Today, only 40% of failed devices are repaired. Imagine the key job. This fight against organised obsolescence is perhaps even more a struggle for the relocation of employment. Behind this, a paradigm shift must be made. It's a lever to get out of a hyperconsumption society. We would move from the linear - in which we extract the resources, we use them and then we throw them - to a circular system, in which we reuse materials that have already been in the circuit. We may not necessarily own the devices anymore, but we can use them. Then we fix them. This is the circular economy as we must imagine. Organised obsolescence is one of the necessary devices, at the very heart of the current hyperconsumption model, which must be re-examined, both on its production side and on the consumption side. It is probably for this reason that today the MR holds on to the idea of a law and advocates the adoption of a resolution, which is a disappointment and a betrayal. Politically, it is a heavy act that you put forward, by giving up legislation, while at committee meeting you said you were thinking about it. This attitude is marked by a lot of hypocrisy in relation to all the speeches held. Various comments were made during the processing of this file, including on the creation of a legal norm, the introduction of various provisions into the law in Belgium. I will go back to the 2012 Senate discussions. Mr. Laaouej will remember that because he was, at the time, an actor in the Senate. This is the speech of the representative of Open Vld, Mr. Daems. I choose this parliamentarian because Minister De Block is facing me. Mr Daems had the floor of his group, already in front of the MR group leader, to try to change his position. We will see whether, at the level of the vote, his statement will be followed by effect. In 2012, it was the beginning of official work on a resolution on the subject. Mr Daems said: "The next time I will ask the authors to be even more ambitious, because the concept of environmental balance sheet is not sufficiently anchored in our legislation." Daems was talking about legislation in 2012 already. Mr Clarinval, you who are next to the minister, let yourself be convinced by what the minister reminds you and by what I remind you here in the gallery, namely what the Open Vld said in 2012 already by saying: "The next time, be more ambitious! Imagine something within the legislation!" What was true in 2012 is a fortiori even more so today as other countries have introduced this kind of mechanism into their legislation. At the time, Mr Daems concluded: "The Open Vld therefore has no objection to a partial limitation of these gross profits in order to cover the cost that the company has to bear because of the obsolescence." I'm just quoting it. Why is what was true in 2012 no longer true in the head of the Open Vld? That's what I'm talking about betrayal, but it's not the only thing. If Mr Peeters had been there, I would have recalled his statement, which is more recent, but which is also a demonstration of betrayal. His declaration is dated 16 May 2017. Invited by the RTBF, he said: "I am announcing for the summer – so for the summer of 2017 – a law extending the warranty and a real possibility of repairing these products." Mr Peeters, who is not here but, Mrs De Block, you will report to her, where is this law? Did she come to the government? Did you block her? You tell me "no." It reassures me! It was not you who blocked it, but why is this law announced by Mr Peeters not here? It's also a form of betrayal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u31	We're still working on it. This project has not yet arrived at the government. This must first go through the AW.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u32	It's almost summer 2017! The minister announced this for the summer of 2017! We'll be back soon! This is a bit the ambition of Mr Friart: a small country, a step backwards. As far as we are concerned, great country, walk forward! Let's vote today for this piece of legislation! Let us vote today for this ambition and do not suffer the phenomena of betrayal! I come to Minister Marghem's remarks, as she was also an actress and volunteer to find a solution to help Mr. Miller in his daily difficulties. Here's what's on Minister Marghem's website. When you look at the documents and archives published in May 2017, you will find a document entitled "Combating Obsolescence through Reparability", on Minister Marghem's website. It states: "This fact encourages our federal government to develop a stable legislative framework." Where is this legislative framework today? It is in a motion for a resolution that does not require a legislative framework. This is unacceptable. It is a form of betrayal to all those who have trusted the Minister's word, in the words of the MR, that there is a need for a legislative framework. Where are you today in relation to your commitment to consumers and associations? This is still on the Minister's website. How is it that there is no legislative framework that can be achieved today, when it appears there, on behalf of the government? It's a betrayal! There are more personal ones. I read in Le Soir of 27 September, on the day of the feast of our beautiful Wallonia-Brussels Federation, that Mrs Marghem said this to the journalist of the Evening who questioned him. It's in italics, so it's his own words: "In addition, Jean-Marc Nollet and I join together on improving the repairability of certain everyday items. For example, firms would be forced to keep spare parts to allow further repairs." Of course it's necessary. And we agree, she says. But then, why no text? I have signed a proposal with my colleague Mrs Meyrem Almaci. Others have done so, too, with their articles. Minister Marghem, on 27 September, the feast day in the French Community, stressed this positively. Why isn't what was true at the time today? If not because there is a betrayal, a weakness, a "small spirit, a small country", to quote Mr Friart, but I do not agree with him. Second excerpt from the important interview with Minister Marghem: "A series of measures have reached a consensus between the Liberal minister and the group leader Ecolo-Groen. These include the extension of the product guarantee. It is also a matter of repairability and display in the matter." Where is this happening today? Nowhere in the law! It's a form of betrayal. It is more personal, but it is just as important, I believe, to the commitments that have been made in this article. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also speaking to you: the Committee on Health met under the chairmanship of my colleague Muriel Gerkens, at the request of the Committee on Economy, to examine these various bills - there were three: one from the CDH, one from the PS and one from Ecolo-Groen. She was seized to deliver an opinion. It was unanimously that this committee delivered an opinion in favour of the objectives pursued by the three legislative proposals. Not by a resolution, but by the three bills! Mrs. Gerkens is here, she can confirm it. This date is October 4, 2017. The chairman of the committee is here and the report, you all have it. Why is what was true unanimously in the Committee on Health, not just for the MR, not today? I wonder about the sources of this betrayal. I will end with this enumeration - I still have many things to say - of the forms of betrayal by the word which, for me, was the clearest, most engaging of Minister Marghem. When we were working again in the Committee on Health, on the texts themselves, it was said, and I quote the report before the chairman, in point 2. Methodology", in the Minister's replies and replies to the arguments of parliamentarians: "The Minister believes that this matter should be dealt with by going beyond the traditional divides between majority and opposition." She has no doubt that this position is shared by her counterparts in the federal government. I repeat, Mrs De Block: she does not doubt that her position is shared by the federal government! The following sentence is even more striking: "There is a pre-existing consensus on the drafting of legislative texts." That is what Minister Marghem tells us. There is a consensus within the government on the drafting of legislation. Not a resolution, Mr. Friart. Stop me if I don't say what's in the report! That is what the minister committed herself to and, on behalf of the government, recalling that there was a consensus within her. Mr Friart, your silence is calling me. That is exactly what is in the report. The minister concluded with this sentence which, for me, is today a complete disavowal: "It remains the objective to draw the legislative framework under this legislature still." The legislative framework, Mr Friart! Not a resolution. What is said here is not what the opposition says. That's what Minister Marghem says. She doesn't say it alone, but on behalf of the government. "There is a pre-existing consensus on the drafting of legislation," she says. Where is this consensus? Where is this piece of legislation? I wonder. What a betrayal of the commitments of Minister Peeters, of the majority in the Health Committee, of Minister Marghem in committee and earlier of the Vld when he was in the Senate talking with colleague Laaouej! So, in fact, the associations are disappointed and that is legitimate. Yes, citizens, consumers are disappointed at your lack of courage and ability to simply translate the commitments you had made, to put this in a piece of legislation. It's not just Mr. Miller who will go home tonight saying he couldn't get what he was looking for. I believe that there are many people who will be disappointed and saddened by this betrayal and who will only put their hopes in those who continue to claim a piece of legislation. My colleague Almaci, but also others, as well as myself, will be here in this Parliament because our texts will continue to exist. We'll bring them back, Mr. President. For this commitment to have legislation before the end of the legislature, we must be able to put it into practice, especially since the government itself has carried out another study. The government commissioned a number of studies: in 2014, a study of its own public service, the SPF Economy, during Minister Marghem; in 2015, the PwC study that I told you about; in 2016, the study of ministers that table 21 measures; and in 2017, the DRC study, the author of the main study that says what can be done or not. In this study on the obsolescence ordered by the government, the authors recommend taking steps at the Belgian level, Mr Friart! I am sure you have in front of you a computer that allows you to follow the link to this study, which was made public thanks to the Speaker and the services of the House. It is accessible on the House website. I invite you to look with me at his summary table: he refers to the levels of power where the various measures which are in the texts of socialists, cdH or environmentalists must be taken, either at European level or at Belgian level. There are four measures, among others, which the author of the study commissioned by the Government points out as being of preferential application at the Belgian level: - first, the display of the degree of repairability on the basis of an objective evaluation methodology; - secondly, the extension of the statutory warranty period, depending on the categories of products, to extend the burden of proof for manufacturers to two years; - thirdly, make the availability of spare parts, product plans, repair tools mandatory with a delivery time, availability and reasonable price; - fourthly, requiring manufacturers to display the duration of their commitment to supply spare parts. What is the point, Mr. Friart, in ordering studies if it is not to take them into account at the time of the conclusions? This study makes it clear that these four measures must be decided at Belgian level. These proposals are reflected in the three pieces of legislation that have been tabled in Parliament and that have been discussed. Why, on these four measures, could we not agree today? Mr Friart, I'm talking to you! I see that, obviously, there is no argument against that. I understand that because the studies commissioned by the government tell us to do so. Moreover, beyond the second column, a last column is very interesting. It is a column that Mr Laaouej, other colleagues and I would like to see in a lot of government arrangements. That's the level of feasibility. There is both the level of power where this must be done and the level of feasibility. For three of the four measures I mentioned, the level of feasibility is high. What more do you need as an argument? And for the fourth, it's a middle level. There is a very low, low, medium and high level. Three of the four measures are to be taken at Belgian level and are of high feasibility, according to the authors of the study commissioned by the government. But, damn it, wake up at the MR! Normally, you should care a little about the purchasing power of consumers: to reduce their obligation to buy appliances, not only for environmental aspects, also for purchasing power, for the jobs at the key, for the relocation of employment, for the fact that, for 10,000 tonnes of waste, there are many more jobs in repair than in landfills. I'm trying to convince you, but obviously it's all over your head! These are objective, factual, numerical arguments given by the authors of the study commissioned by the government. It would seem, however, that you are not in a position to take this into account. You will therefore understand, Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that we will vote against this text of a resolution which has no meaning. No sense! Otherwise, I'm sure Mr. Friart would have interrupted me here. And I understand the sadness of Mr. Miller who, tonight, will return home without being able to tell his loved ones that he will have the opportunity to have tomorrow a piece of legislation with guarantees so that what happened to him never happens again. Mr Miller, I'm telling you, it doesn't stop tonight! Legislation is here, including the text that I signed with my colleague, Mrs Almaci. It is still time, during this Parliament, to take into account the proposals we are making. Thank you, Mr. Miller, for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u33	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to highlight a paradox of this majority, which has often been called "jobs, jobs, jobs". We have here a file which represents, for Belgium, potentially 1,300 new jobs. I'm not saying it, it's the European Commission. Strong measures against the planned obsolescence would create between 45,000 and 87,000 jobs in Europe by 2050, which corresponds to about 1,300 jobs for our great and beautiful country. However, the federal majority is about to reject the proposals for legislation of the PS, the cdH and Ecolo that are on the table to combat the planned obsolescence. How can we understand this contradiction? Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to 1 300 jobs lost, the burial of the dossier of the planned obsolescence will have several important consequences, whereas measures could have been taken very quickly at Belgian level. Let me quote a few consequences. Firstly, there will be no prosecution in Belgium against ill-intentioned manufacturers. In France, pursuing Apple because of irreversible updates that reduce the performance of iPhones or prosecuting manufacturers of ink cartridges that stop working while they are still half full has become possible since the Hamon law. In our view, this is really in line with the idea of economic justice. Indeed, it is not normal for the consumer to pay for items with artificially reduced lifespans. Unfortunately, however, this will not happen in our country because the majority prefers to send a message of impunity to ill-intentioned manufacturers. Secondly, there will be no strengthening of the legal guarantee or transparency on the lifetime of objects. This is a shame because it is simple measures that improve the price-quality ratio of consumer goods, and hence the purchasing power of citizens. Thirdly, there will be no assistance in repairing defective objects. The hundreds of citizens involved in Repair Cafes or in the country's recycling facilities must be convinced that, for the government in place, non-compliant screws or inaccessible batteries – a whole technological inventiveness deployed to make repair improbable – are and must remain for you normal phenomena. That is very regrettable. Finally, almost 111,000 tonnes of electrical and electronic waste are collected annually in Belgium. I don't know if we realize what this means in volume, but it's equivalent to two or three Titanic swallowed up every year by our country. "Thanks to" the majority, this quantity will unfortunately not decrease. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to my question: why does the majority reject proposals that are both beneficial for employment, the environment and the citizen's portfolio? Of course, for my group, this decision seems totally absurd and taken in spite of any common sense. Having said that, my intuition is that it is, however, consistent. First of all, it is with the minimum policy that the government has been applying since the beginning of the legislature in terms of consumer protection. It is then so with your constant political line of not doing anything in favour of the latter, except by translating European directives into legislation. And again, always in a minimal way! Seeing the majority cling to the false idea that any progress in consumer protection is tantamount to a threat to Belgium's competitive position on the European market is a truly deplorable spectacle. Another thing I'm sorry about in this case. We can sincerely ask ourselves whether the MR did not play the comedy during the three years in which we worked on this issue in committee. Indeed, throughout this period, you have suggested to us that there is still a chance, a hope that we can succeed. I will recall only one statement, among a number of others that we might find in the transcripts. I think Mr. Nollet has already quoted a lot. I'm going to quote one that's really worth it. It was in 2017. Minister Marghem said in the Health Committee: "The issue of planned obsolescence must be dealt with by going beyond the traditional divides between majority and opposition. I have no doubt that this position is shared by my counterparts in the federal government. It remains the objective of drawing up a legislative framework, still under the present legislature." What hypocrisy! In what game are we still playing today, when this is an important societal debate led by many citizens? I still regret the absence of the competent ministers, whether it is Mr Peeters or Mrs Marghem, on a subject of society of this importance. Today, the majority will vote for a simple resolution that moves the whole debate towards the government and the European Union. What a step backwards! This is indeed the same type of motion for resolution that the PS group had tabled in the Senate in 2012 and that had been adopted unanimously. It is a step backwards when we have texts on the table, ready to be voted on. These are texts of the CDH, which will be reflected in the next item on the agenda, the PS and Ecolo. Our two political groups have wished to keep them on the agenda, because I do not despair that we will return to the subject and finally be able to reach a positive outcome, accompanied by concrete measures for the citizens of this country. We have remained at the starting point of 2012 as citizens demand strong measures to combat the planned obsolescence. You will understand that obviously we will not vote for this text. This resolution by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is really an imposture, which has only one purpose: to bury the file of the planned obsolescence. If we wait, we're going straight into the wall. We deplore him!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, what hope existed when in January 2016, several bills were tabled on the table of parliament to try to study and solve a problem that concerns all citizens of Belgium, all consumers of Belgium. They have all been confronted more or less, depending on their situation, with the planned obsolescence. Minister Peeters, in charge of Consumer Protection, was very interested. Minister Marghem also lent herself to thinking, as she and the government have initiated studies. Our real goal was to be able to move forward legislatively by bringing a number of rights and obligations to the world of production to meet consumer expectations. The item has come more than ten times to the agenda of the Committee on the Economy. Each time, the groups had a willingness to move forward. We've had studies, auditions. We have had the opportunity to present texts, while being open to amendments, open to the ability to improve things so that we can find a common objective for common work, responding to consumer demand. Finally, the solution today is that the consumer is losing. The consumer, the first person we need to talk to, is a loser. The consideration of this item on the agenda today is the examination of the denials that have indeed been observed in the majority, because we were ready, in any case as far as I am concerned, and we have demonstrated this for the others, to continue to move forward. The road has been long and strewn with pitfalls. I would just like to say that if I was the co-signator of this bill, Vanessa Matz had co-signed it first, but you know her personal situation, she was unable to defend her text. The aim was to accompany this bill with a change in consumer attitudes. Frankly, I had the great surprise that we were being followed by all the groups and the government. Unsurprisingly, Minister Peeters has repeatedly appeared in the press. He mentioned it first of all to announce that he wished to extend the warranty period for products. I also collected a whole series of quotes. I'll tell my friends on the CD&V. Minister Peeters said: "We need to know how much manufacturers are planning the aging of their devices. And to combat these supposed programmed obsolescences," said Minister Peeters, among other measures, "to extend the warranty periods during which spare parts must be available". It is overbid in March 2016, so more than two years ago. "The idea of indicating the lifespan is interesting and we are in favour of this track," said Minister Peeters during an interview. I'm going on. Minister Peeters, on October 28, 2016, took the position of leader of the circular economy. "The ambition is to make Belgium a leader in the circular economy, one that aims to make the most of the reuse of raw materials and products. The political ambition is to adapt what is necessary because the single-use economy will no longer be profitable." This new quote from Minister Peeters has resulted in hundreds, if not thousands, of potential jobs in this sector. In February 2017, Minister Peeters, responsible for consumer protection, spoke in an interview. The journalist asks him: "And as far as the planned obsolescence is concerned, is there not so much room for legislation?" He replied directly: "It is not entirely permissible for the consumer to be so little informed about the reasonable lifespan of a device he buys. I would therefore like manufacturers to be obliged to state clearly on the packaging this estimated service life, in the context of normal use of the device." If we do not call this in favour of a planned obsolescence project, it will have to be explained to me. On May 12, 2017, he tendered. It announces a law extending the scope of the guarantee and a real possibility of repairing the products. He says: "The longer lifespan of products will also produce less waste. The reinforcement of the "repairability" factor could also lead to the creation of some 1,300 jobs in Belgium." Minister Marghem also said: "I have presented 21 measures in this direction, together with the Minister of Employment, Economy and Consumers." One of the provisions proposed to draw up recommendations to combat the planned obsolescence, which the study of the DRC Environment consulting office, which participated in the Committee on the Economy and Public Health meetings, presented, with the unanimous conclusions of all members of this Parliament, to work against the planned obsolescence. Last quote, in September 2017, Minister Peeters wants "an extension of the guarantee of these products, an extension of the life of these electronic devices, which is obviously a good thing for consumers". The longer the time line extends, the more the parliamentarians are in favour of legislation. It doesn't stop there! Each year 111,000 tonnes of electronic waste are collected in Belgium, or about 10 kg per capita. The two Ministers, clearly, say: "to display the expected life of the product on the basis of an objective evaluation methodology to be developed". I turn to my colleagues in the MR who hear, if they will. The two ministers said that the degree of repairability should be displayed, the length of time during which manufacturers undertake to supply spare parts, and the legal lifespan should be extended. Today, all these statements are collapsing. The soufflé came back as a result of the decision to vote on a motion for a resolution in 2018. In 2012, a resolution to that effect was passed in the Senate, the immediate effect of which is not obvious. I can also note, and I would still like to attach a bit of fantasy to this, that in September last year we were given a big statement by Minister Marghem. She announced in the press that she was working on a law with Mr. Nollet. The press reported statements. I thought, "This is a nascent idyll between Mrs Marghem and Mr. Nollet." I was a little surprised by the fall of this idyllic, Mr. Nollet! What's the status of this idyllic on this subject? It's over. Tinder, you and Mrs Marghem are done! There were cracks in the contract. This need to legislate against planned obsolescence is even more prevalent today, after the scandals that have recently affected Apple and Epson companies in France. Investigations are still under way. Let us remember that France is a pioneer in this field! There is a law in France to combat programmed obsolescence and premature obsolescence. Appeals are brought before the courts. During the hearings, manufacturers and producers were not afraid of this, because they understood that it was necessary to work on reusable products, with a certain guarantee, and to work on short circuits, also within the framework of the collaborative economy. When we talk about this, we are talking not only about consumer protection but also about the environment and waste production. Natural resources are not extensible in terms of what we are trying to produce in our society. When the bills were tabled, it was with the desire to legislate, to create a framework, to set benchmarks. And today, patatras! What has happened to prevent a solution from being reached that would allow everyone to receive, as a consumer, guarantees to buy a solid and healthy product? We simply asked for extended warranty periods, to leave it to market players to display the product's life on the instructions for use and on the box at the time of sale, and to guarantee the life of their product. All this fell into the water. There was also this possibility, within the framework of regulation, that Parliament could incriminate, with sanctions in support, attitudes where obsolescence was truly programmed. You all have at home, not only appliances, but also printers that no longer fulfil their function while there is still ink in the cartridge. We wanted to sanction this policy of programmed obsolescence and it seemed to us normal that the legislator should act through the noble mission that is his, that is, that of making law by creating laws. We really wanted this criminalization in our text. Today, we are faced with an all-out resolution that does not even serve to save face. It's a resolution that tries not to lose face to the MR, but admit it's a blow in the water! The guarantee is no longer there to avoid premature decommissioning of consumer goods since it is not extended. Let us recall all these thoughts carried out together. They have been the result of a long and serious work in committee, long work, listening to consumers and producers, listening to people dealing with waste. When Minister Peeters came to committee - you can go to the reports - he said it is time to act under this legislature to promote the circular economy that is both employment-friendly and consumer-friendly. Minister Peeters' motivation was unanimous among the members of the Public Health Commission. Today is the day of the denials of the majority when we could have done a good legislative job. Today, it is the flight forward so as not to lose face. I am speaking to all the members of the majority: you have no right to be proud of what you are doing. This is indeed an act of cowardice vis-à-vis consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u35	Mr President, ten years ago, when I presented my first proposal, at the time with Mrs Snoy and Mr Balcaen, I had the hope that this Parliament would soon see the need for progress in this area. We are now ten years and a wear and tear within this majority, a wear and tear that has resulted in zero results. There was a repair café in the peristylium where the chairman spoke fine words and then a total lack of result at the time when we had to move forward. I remember Mr Janssen firing Kris Peeters here because he was not ambitious enough. He felt that the extension of the guarantee scheme, which CD&V had knocked on its chest, was not enough. I saw in the Flemish parliament N-VA, CD&V and Open Vld knocking on their chests about circular economy and saying that Flanders should move forward with that. I see zero progress in this Parliament. So the question is who's actually blocking it here. Zero response from this government. Who's blocking this place anyway? After all the wonderful words in the press that each party wants to beat themselves to the chest, who's blocking it? It is a fact that this majority has tried hard to put itself on the market after ten years as a champion of the sustainable economy, with a Wouter Beke here absent who, in the Studio of Relating to his appreciation for Kate Raworth and the doughnut model, is unable to take a step forward here, not a step, not even a minimum, to limit that waste stream, in which our country is proportionally world champion. Even encouraging the repair professions to which N-VA, CD&V and Open Vld have called in the Flemish Parliament, I do not see. Even there isn't. There's zero ambition. It's a wear and tear. The majority does not agree but would like to go with the plumes. This is incredibly embarrassing. So it's no surprise that Jos Delbeke comes on television and says how bad we score internationally in all statistics. That is not the ambition of this government, because it is not there. This result, international and domestic, in terms of the environment and not starting a circular economy is entirely due to you, all in all. You may beat on the chest because you cannot take a step forward in the most crucial times of our history. Not a step! The next time a repair café is organized, you will undoubtedly all be on the picture. You also manage to ask questions about each other for ten years and to block each other in the government. Beautiful! It's not because it's almost 10:00 that this isn't relevant. Every time this majority comes out on this subject and says that it means well, I'll have a good laugh and then put it on Twitter, because apparently that's a bigger hobby than solving things. There is no agreement, but there is a blocking. There is total hopelessness and a total lack of will to change. It's a cinema. Belgium does not limit the planned ageing and Europe is grabbing on the spot. Where a small country can be big! What a small government can be big at! I only see after-work towards each other and forgetting what's possible. The next time people say in the Flemish Government that they want to help promote repair professions, I will also recall what a sad result was here today. I would very much like to see progress over the next ten years. Maybe it's starting to dawn a little bit, but climate change is a fact. We don't have ten years! The next time someone here pretends to have some ambition in this respect, I will remind you of the most embarrassing result in a domain where we could have created a lot of green jobs. We have to do it! Well done, dear CD&V, N-VA and Open Vld!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u36	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u37	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Vanessa Matz, Michel de Lamotte, Benoît Lutgen. The Committee on Industry, Science Policy, Education, the national scientific and cultural institutions, the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Agriculture proposes that this proposal be rejected. (1603/4) The Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture proposes to reject this proposal. (1603/4) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. The rapporteurs are Mrs Cassart-Mailleux and Mr Thiéry and Mr Klaps, referring to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u38	Mr President, I shall speak from my bench, with your permission, on the text which we have already discussed widely. I want to put a number of things back on track. At the outset, I want to tell you that if you reject this proposal, it is obviously the failure of a whole policy vis-à-vis consumers and a number of citizens. I would remind you, quickly since my speaking time is limited, that it was a matter of putting in place the obligation for manufacturers to display the expected lifespan for normal use of their products. To require manufacturers to guarantee the product during this lifetime with a minimum of two years. That the legal guarantee for used products should also be extended to two years. That the burden of proof should be reversed in favour of the consumer, after two years instead of six months. That the organisation of the planned obsolescence be punished and that it be prohibited with level 6 sanctions. That there is also a ban on premature obsolescence with Level 4 sanctions. Whether there is a pre-contractual obligation to provide information on the repairability of the product and whether or not the good is repairable on the packaging. The obligation to provide pre-contractual information on the availability of spare parts and the obligation on manufacturers and importers to ensure the availability of spare parts during the life of the product at a reasonable price. The reasonableness of the price is to be determined by a royal order. The text which has been rejected in committee and which has not been debated today, since it was the motion for a resolution in the previous debate, is a text that protects the consumer, protects the environment, produces less waste and creates employment. If you are about to reject this text, you will be indebted to future generations for what you have done. I therefore leave you today, with the proposal that has been rejected in committee, full responsibility for your vote because all of us will be judged, by future generations, on decisions like this, which we have not dared to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u39	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u40	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u41	Mr President, the draft law, as you said, is in agreement with the cooperation agreement between the federal state on the one hand and the various states on the other. The aim is to partially transpose the procedure of the single permit, a concept which we know mostly in English. The approval of the cooperation agreement was also given by the various Länder. We have a difficult country when it comes to the division of powers between the entities of foreign workers and the federal state. In this Belgian context, it is not easy to transpose this directive. Since the sixth State reform, the Regions have, fortunately, been largely competent for the employment of foreign workers, while the Federal State remains competent for certain aspects. That is why it was not obvious to reach agreement with these cooperation agreements. Those who took the floor on this draft law agreed unanimously on the inimitable importance of this combined application permit, the Dutch translation of single permit for admission to residence, on the one hand, and work, on the other. The procedure shall result in the issue of a single title demonstrating that the necessary authorisations for residence and work have been granted. However, it is not easy to establish a procedure which respects these divisions of competence, on the one hand, and leads to the purpose of this cooperation agreement, which is to deliver the single permit, on the other hand, an agreement has been drawn up with all the relevant Länder, which led to the cooperation agreement of 2 February 2018. The agreement has a dual objective and we are very much in favour of it. Firstly, the introduction of the combined application procedure leading to the issue of a residence permit and a work permit, a work permit or a professional card. The aim is to facilitate and promote active labour migration, which we are in favour of, rather than passive migration, our jargon to try to make a distinction. Secondly, the Secretary of State is responsible not only for Asylum and Migration, but also for Administrative Simplification....................................................................................................................................................................................... They must consider whether a single permit can be delivered and are ordered to take measures to monitor the activities and residence of foreign workers. The text therefore represents an administrative simplification. At present, the work permit is still to be applied for from the regional services, which work very effectively within the different regions. In addition, a migrant applying for a work permit or professional card must also apply for a residence card from the federal government. This creates a very cumbersome procedure that sometimes drags on for months, and that is not the intention. From the outset, the Secretary of State said that active migration should be facilitated and that those who want to work effectively legally should be encouraged. One card will therefore be handed over, which unites both documents. It will therefore be faster and simpler, both for the employee and for the employer. Everything is regulated internally between the different administrations. In Flanders alone, about 5 000 cards are involved. The proposed scheme therefore allows for much more performant work on labour migration. That was one of the objectives in your 2018 policy paper, which you explained at the time and which you are now effectively addressing. Your draft law will therefore receive the support of the entire N-VA group. Mr President, I have noticed that I have linked our group's vision to the report. I'll come back to the report. During the discussion in committee, Mr Kir indicated that his group would support the draft bill before us because it contains simplification and harmonisation of the procedure for issuing these two licences. Mr Pivin of the MR also supported the draft law and applauded the possibility of clarifying the procedures for issuing work and residence permits. In his view, the draft law achieves a very important administrative simplification. This was also said by Nahima Lanjri of CD&V, who expressed her satisfaction that the single permit arrangement has finally been worked out. She emphasized the word "finally" because it was indeed high time. I have pointed out that it was not obvious to get all this settled within our division of powers, but it was high time, given the threat of periodic penalty payments due to Europe. Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu of Open Vld also intervened in the committee in the discussion of this bill. For her, the transposition of the European directive is not a day too early. She also referred to the threat of periodic penalty payments which we will be able to avoid by adopting this bill. Mrs De Coninck of the sp.a pointed out that she had already been involved as a former Minister of Work in the negotiations on the single permit. It is a good thing that the negotiations that have been going on for so long have finally been concluded and that we can start with the introduction of the single permit. Mr Hellings of Ecolo-Green also considered the draft law to be very valuable because it aims to significantly simplify the work permit and residence permit procedure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the whole of this draft law was adopted by 12 votes in favour and one abstention. We are not used to Mr Francken's draft laws. The approval was almost unanimous. N-VA will, of course, adopt this draft shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u42	We therefore first received the discussion and then the report. It's been noted. Are there any colleagues who would like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u43	It is true, Mrs Smeyers, that Mr Hellings has pointed out the simplification and the progress that can be made, but we also think it is a bit of a missed opportunity. Why? Because the single permit actually takes over the current system. We would have liked the current work cards B to be transformed into sectoral work cards, not so much on an individual basis with regard to one employer, but in the labour market research into the extent to which migrant workers are needed for similar jobs with other employers. That is a position that has long been in our electoral programme. The position to work more with sectoral work cards rather than with current work cards B is, of course, not so unusual either. The single permit could have gone in that direction and could have provided an answer. That is not the case now, hence our abstention, including in committee. However, it is, in any case, a step forward. That is why we did not vote against it, but instead of taking one step, we could have taken two steps forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u44	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, what you are saying is quite right, but it is up to the Länder themselves to make a new decree on a possible change of wording and, for example, a work card of not one year but three years, on the smoother transfer of employment contracts or on a more sectoral approach to the whole labour migration story. Yesterday I had a meeting with colleague Muyters, at Flemish level. I understand that the ambition is really there to come up with a decree in the short term. Some of the things that you have just suggested may be in there, but they are no longer at the federal level. They will be discussed in the Flemish Parliament. Your colleagues will certainly be able to say something about that. I would like to stress that this has already been approved in the Flemish Parliament, with a very large majority. Last night it was also approved in the Walloon Parliament, with a very large majority. I am always pleased and very happy that my policy has so much support and that it is so consensual. If I support and agree with so many of my fellow Members on a massive scale, then I am very pleased and very hopeful for the future. That signal can also be given today, in a few minutes' time, in the vote on this bill. I'm very satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u45	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u46	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2933/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2933/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u47	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u48	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u49	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u50	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when I stand here and think about the subject on which I am going to make a brief statement, I get an enormous feeling of déjà vu. Maybe that's not so weird. After all, I have often held the same discourse here and it will be no different today. I have been working on this dossier myself for ten years, first behind the scenes as a spokesperson, together with Mr Louis Ide, from the opposition, and over the past few years here, from the majority. Ten years, and now I really hope, ladies and gentlemen, that it will be the last time. It was a bumpy trail but we got there anyway. After twenty years of unwillingness, all conceivable delaying manoeuvres and a great deal of palaver, there is a draft for you to vote that finally corrects decades of distortion, on the basis of a balanced and just agreement within this government. But above all, and this is sometimes forgotten in this debate, on the basis of the common will of this majority to keep the health care system and therefore the corps quality and affordable. Some colleagues will no doubt tell you in a moment how scandalous this agreement is; how the French-speaking interests are unacceptable by it; how medical care will no longer be guaranteed in the south of the country; how the quota system, which they have never actually applied, has somehow miraculously caused a shortage of doctors in French-speaking Belgium today and how the N-VA plays a Community game on the cap of French-speaking students. You will soon hear this from colleagues, but I will not go into too much detail: it is coming. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be more different than that. However, I can say a hundred times that leading to less popular regions and to sub-specialities has long become a competence of the Communities and that this is consistently and successfully applied in Flanders. I can say a hundred times that today's deficits are still difficult to put on the quota that has never existed for the south of the country in reality, and that we have not made a Community story of it, but the PS. Twenty years ago, she agreed to introduce quotas in this country, and then refused for 20 years to do what had to be done at Community level, in particular to introduce an entry test. This resulted, on the one hand, in frustration on the Flemish side for all Flemish students who could not start the training and, on the other hand, had consequences for the future security of the French-speaking students who were told for years that there was nothing to fear. The PS would eventually ensure that the ghost of quota would disappear. Ladies and gentlemen of the PS, I actually have a solution for this, and it is called confederalism. However, if the bill shifts, such an attitude is already a lot less interesting for certain parties, I have learned that in the meantime. I have so many times refuted these crooked arguments in committee that I am not under any illusion that I will be able to convince colleagues this time. So I come to the design itself. When the quota system was introduced at the end of the 1990s, it was not for nothing. There was at that time a huge amount of doctors in our country, with overconsumption and overcrowded auditoriums. This resulted in less quality training. Limiting the number of RIZIV numbers that could be awarded annually to graduates was necessary to ensure the quality and affordability of healthcare. I hear the words quality and affordability sound very often there but when it comes to it, they do not like to cooperate. The rest is actually history. In Flanders, since the introduction of this quota, we have immediately introduced an entrance examination. About 4,000 pupils participate each year. Only a minority can pass through. That in itself is not a problem because everyone knows why it is and everyone supports that decision. But how bitter is it for those Flemings to see what has been happening on the other side of the language border for 20 years now? I can't describe it any better than with the words. after us deluge . Someone's gonna figure it out someday. That's what you've been telling the students and us for a very long time. The bill for the unwillingness of the French-speaking parties to introduce an entrance examination into their Community is, of course, federal. There is, of course, a great deal of the problem. This is cynicism at the top. When then Minister of Health Onkelinx didn't think it was better to get a law passed to make it possible for the students who graduate today to use the RIZIV numbers of the future, I thought I'd see the end of this dossier. At that time, however, we had to come to the discussion with which we hope to conclude today, on the solution that this government has found. Every delay manoeuvre has passed through here, to the shameless. Dear people, however, this agreement cannot be affected. It is very clear and it remains clear: there is at last an entrance exam in French-speaking Belgium and it will have to remain so. That entrance exam will also have to be efficient and lead to a limitation of the influx, just as in Flanders. The number of doctors built up over the last 20 years will also have to be paid off. The distribution of the RIZIV numbers between the two parts of the country, which will be determined annually by the Planning Committee for the whole of the Empire, is now based on the only correct criterion, in particular the population. With this agreement, we will make it possible for the French-speaking students who are now in their training to start the profession in full. I don't expect thank you for it, but you can thank us for it. However, we are also putting an end to the distortion of growth and the damaging consequences for our health care system. Our group will therefore fully support this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u51	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I know that I will not convince you and that it is late. So I'll be concise. But I would like to reaffirm the basis of my political group's convictions in this matter. Whatever you say, this is, in our view, a community issue. As mentioned above, the INAMI numbers allow physicians and dentists, after a long and difficult training, to practice their profession in the community. This is a community issue, Madam Minister, in which you have plunged, from the beginning of the legislature, left behind by your majority partners, who once again want to undermine - in any case, our way of looking at it - the accessibility of health care for all in our country and in particular in certain regions. I will return to that point. Your sape work in this case began at the start of the legislature when you decided to impose on the Wallonia-Brussels Federation the introduction of an entry examination to access medical and dental studies, otherwise you would not grant INAMI numbers to students in the course of their studies. It was and we denounced it at the time, an unacceptable hostage. After various twists that I will not recall, the entry examination was therefore put in place and demonstrated its effects last September, regrettably. I want to remind you of this, because I believe it goes against the freedom of access to education. The future good doctors are not necessarily those who pass this type of examination after leaving secondary education. There have been a number of dramas experienced by these students. In 2016, you decided to set quotas for the year 2022, without taking into account the opinion of the Planning Commission which considered it very clearly necessary to review the key in favour of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. You yourself have spoken of a political agreement far from the evidence-based medicine that you so much advocate, the quotas finally invalidated by the Council of State because of the illegal deadlines that you had not respected. Finally, the apotheosis, the cherry on the gift, this bill presented as a balanced agreement within the framework of the INAMI file has received an opinion more than assassin from the Council of State, opinion on which your government sat without brows! Minister, there is no objective reason why we should take a position on this issue and certainly not the health needs of our citizens. Your positions are incoherent, incomprehensible, intolerable. That is the opinion of my group, which I do not fail to share, but not only because the Council of State does not say anything else about the text before us today. According to the Council of State, "not only does such a system seem inconsistent with regard to the respective consideration of the criteria at national and Community level, but, more fundamentally, it may lead to a reduction in the medical supply in a given Community in relation to the needs of its inhabitants as assessed by that Commission". The French Community Commission (COCOF) considered that its interests had been seriously affected and initiated a procedure in conflict of interest. I could re-explain the argument, supporting figures. I will thank you for quoting all these figures that we've heard hundreds of times. We know what a conflict of interest is in this Parliament, how the meetings take place and, above all, how they end: there is no deafer than the one who wants to hear. Again, we plead for a review of the very content of this type of consultation, but this is another debate. I come to the bottom, very briefly. This bill significantly changes the quota system for the practice of medicine and dentistry, without taking into account the needs of the entire population, without taking into account the realities of the field, which are experienced on a daily basis. For many years, the Medical Supply Planning Commission has played an essential role in setting quotas and the key for distribution between the Communities, by carrying out increasingly refined work, taking into account the changing needs of medical care and the demographic and sociological development of the professions concerned. And today, Madam Minister, you are depriving her of this main role, in order to give a role to this commission. It's not surprising, because you've already ignored her advice and expertise in the past. You will tell us that the Planning Commission will continue to assess the country's needs, as is currently the case. Yes, but you clearly take away the task of proposing a sharing between linguistic communities. The work of allocating the national quota between French and Flemish will in future be reserved for the Court of Auditors alone. It will be distributed according to the size of the population of the Communities. We will do mathematics at the expense of socio-demographic needs, and which do not take into account differences between the regions. That is the major reproach we make for the text. These are mathematics and magic formulas, because the question of the Brussels Region had to be resolved. To calculate the number of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking inhabitants of the Brussels Region, dear friends who exercise responsibilities within this Region, one criterion was found to be at least specific. This is the proportion of pupils in Dutch- and French-speaking primary and secondary education, compared to the total number of pupils. I am talking about a magic formula, be careful because the Council of State has said that it does not see - an elegant style formula - the link between the number of students in compulsory education attending Dutch-speaking and French-speaking schools, on the one hand, and the distribution of certificates of quota of medical specialists candidates by Community, on the other hand. I don't see the connection either. It also points out that it is well known that the number of pupils attending Dutch-speaking schools is not representative of the number of Dutch-speaking people living in the Brussels Region. I simply quote the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u52	Mr President, I thought I'd let Mr Frédéric go through with his reasoning, but I want to make a little clarification. The criteria chosen for schools can always be discussed. But what is certain is that when we look at the negative differential that it might assume, for the students who will begin their specialization in 2024, we are talking about twenty doctors. In the meantime, we will still have 14,486 doctors working in Wallonia and 5,553 in Brussels. They will therefore be twenty doctors out of 5,353. So these figures really need to be put into perspective. In the meantime, we have found a solution; I will go back to it in more detail in my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u53	I thank Mr Thiéry for his courage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u54	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u55	Let me continue! I'm just saying it's extremely brave. It is not convincing, but I have admiration for you, Mr Thiéry, because it is always you who have to go up on indefensible blows, to support the plans of the three Flemish partners of the majority who, in your daily life and extra-parliamentary activity, have never really supported you. I am admired by this conviction. I would even offer you a drink for that. [[Hilarity]] Seriously! We're not gonna argue...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u56	Mr Frédéric, I am also admiring your argument, simply because you really believe in what you say. Of course, we will never agree, but what is certain is that we have found a solution in the interests of all. Otherwise, there would be no number issued in 2017 until 2020 and beyond.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u57	Thank you to the defence of this majority for this argument. We will not fight numbers, because the figures that I have and have been mentioned every time, according to the text that you will vote today will ensure that there are about 100 general practitioners less per year in the Walloon Region and the Brussels Region. Those are the numbers. But we will not agree on the figures. To conclude and not monopolize the rostrum, I would also like, Madam Minister, to recall that your project is putting in place a famous negative smoothing which, in a way, punishes the bad Francophones who have trained – as was said earlier – more doctors and dentists in the past than they were allowed to train. As this government has always wanted, it is therefore future generations that, from 2024 onwards, will compensate for these supernumerary INAMI numbers in a context of shortage. I'll call you back and I'll come back. For my group, Madam Minister, there is evidence in this case. It is indeed the need to review the quota system, a purely and simply aberrant system. And, in this case, everyone must obviously avoid taking responsibility. And you, instead of removing it or, at the very least, bringing it in line with reality, manipulate it to make it a more disastrous system, a system that only meets the demands of your majority partners, ignoring the reality of the field, ignoring the different regional needs, ignoring the need for patients, the quality and accessibility of our profession. And the reality is that of the shortage of general practitioners, specifically in some municipalities in Wallonia and, specifically, in the rural environment from which I came. It is also the shortage of certain specialties, which leads to waiting times to get an abnormally long appointment and all studies converge to say that this shortage will only increase in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u58	I just said I wouldn't do it anymore, but it's stronger than me. I'm gonna try again anyway. [[Mr Frédéric looked for the translation]] Look at my mouth. Maybe you can read it. The deficits in the sub-specialities you are experiencing today in Wallonia, in French-speaking Belgium, the deficits in certain regions of the Community are there without ever having any influence on the quota system. Why do you have it today? Because you do not use your Community competence to ensure that it is directed to regions and sub-specialities; something Flanders does. So stop saying to the people every time that the deficit would have been caused by the quota system at the federal level and that the solution would be here, because that is just completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u59	Mrs Van Peel, thank you for your speech, applauded by the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u60	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u61	Everyone has the opportunity to express their convictions, and I respect them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u62	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u63	I wanted to come, Mrs. Onkelinx, rest assured! This is the last reality I wanted to insist on. Foreign doctors who come to our hospitals are not bound by quotas. I would like to point out that at present more than 40% of doctors who have obtained an INAMI number are nationals of a Member State of the European Union. Finally, Belgian students who will complete their training abroad return home without fear of being trapped by this quota. It remains incomprehensible that a Belgian student – and we have tabled an amendment in this regard – is not considered equally by a foreign student as regards the conditions for access to a specialization. For my group, the selection must be fair, and people with a foreign diploma must therefore be subject to the same criteria for admission to a specialty by universities. As I announced, I will spare you the trouble of numbers: we have had enough exchanges in committee, as well as in the media, on this subject. Madam Minister, Flemish and Francophones of the majority, you have decided to create a real community imbalance in the provision of health care. At no time have you worked for a federal public health policy. And this is not the first time you've been criticized! Tomorrow, the accessibility of our health care will be clearly worse in Wallonia and Brussels than in Flanders. We regret it bitterly. We will continue to oppose it and will of course vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u64	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I also did not intend to enter into a polemic because, as in many cases here in plenary, we are merely repeating a number of arguments and elements that have been discussed at length in committee. It can be said that, indeed, here we are faced with a problem that dates back almost 20 years. I will start by referring to what Professor Jean-Jacques Rombouts, who is the former dean of the Faculty of Medicine of UCL and who was a historical actor in the quota dossier, recently said: "The toelatingsexam was set up in the Flemish Community in 1997. So soon twenty years ago. It was the end of a long reflection in which I participated as president of the UCL School of Medicine. The main objective was to improve the basic level of incoming students, so as to free up medical studies from upgrading to science in order to devote more time to the human and societal training of future doctors". I simply note that an agreement was reached at that time. The Dutch-speaking people – and I'm just saying that – respected it, which was not the case with the French-speaking people. I'm sorry. Mrs Onkelinx, from there to say that I do not know my file, I let you listen to what I have to say! What is certain is that historically, this case is chaotic. We have never found a solution to the concern that successive Ministers of Health have never resolved until now. This problem, whether we like it or not, has always been detrimental to our students, especially because the French Community has procrastinated for years before introducing the filter to the start of studies, with the result that there is a craze for medical students in our faculties which did not correspond to the planning set by the federal government. The introduction of a filter at the start of studies is essential, not only to regulate the medical supply but above all to guarantee the quality of training. Quality training requires adequate and appropriate infrastructure, a guaranteed number of traineeships and a patient's bedside apprenticeship. At the time, the students who had passed their studies had to be taken into account; the opposite would obviously have been unacceptable. The positive smoothing mechanism has therefore been introduced, allowing INAMI numbers to be drawn from the quota in future years. That is the concern we are currently facing. As a result, there were no more INAMI numbers left for all those who were successful in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. We inherit this today! It was – and still is – unacceptable to deny access to the profession to our successful medical students. The government has therefore taken the necessary steps and sought a comprehensive solution to the issue. And now I'm joining Mr. Frédéric. We each have our own vision of the situation. You do not agree with the proposal made here. We found a solution to allow the issue of INAMI numbers for all these future doctors between 2017 and 2020, taking into account the double cohort of 2018. The government agreement, you know it. I will remind him quickly in six points. Firstly, we have decided to set the quotas for doctors 2023 in accordance with the opinion of the Planning Committee. This commitment has been fulfilled: there will be 607 for the French Community, compared to 492 so far. So there's an increase of 215 doctors, contrary to what I've heard. Second: the decision to award additional certificates, counting the 2018 double cohort, provided that there is an effective entry examination on both sides of the linguistic border. This was initially requested but was never respected at the Francophone level. The government also kept its promise by issuing a royal decree in the summer of 2017 that allowed all those students who were completing their studies to receive their certification. The government complies with its commitments as long as the entry review is still in place. Thirdly, the decision to allocate the overall federal quotas taking into account the demographic thresholds so that all young people on both sides of the linguistic border can have the same chances of becoming doctors. This link has never been made before, although it is logical, given the quota corresponding to the number of people per year who can start their internship to become a general practitioner or specialist. Fourthly, the decision to transfer jurisdiction to set the allocation key for global federal quotas to the Court of Auditors. This is in order to objectify the distribution and make it transparent. The authority and experience of the Court of Auditors in this matter cannot be called into question. Fifthly, the decision to fix the overnumber and definitive shortage of doctors at the end of the smoothing period 2004-2021, in accordance with the methodology proposed by the Planning Commission. Sixthly, the decision to launch the reduction of the overnumbers and the clearance of the missing ones in 2024. I have to say a word about the negative smoothing, which could be blamed. There are two elements to be taken into account, which have been thoroughly negotiated. Looking at all physicians, the supernumerary number of Francophones was set at 3,167 units. As part of the negotiation under this government, a new calculation approach was implemented and this supernumerary number increased to 1,531. Why? Because it has been taken into account the loss after studies, among other things, of foreign doctors who return home. So, in terms of supernumerary doctors, half of what was originally planned remains. In the context of this negative smoothing, it is no longer a question of a duration of 7 years, but of 15 years. Finally, I don't understand why I hear that every year 100 less qualified doctors will get their number. These are absolutely not the numbers in our possession. That is why we do not agree. It was decided never to be able to fall below 505, a number higher than the 2015 quota of 492. These figures are also based – and this is fundamental – on the figures provided by the Planning Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u65	Mr. Thiéry, I'm interrupting you. We'll say it once and the egg will be peeled. What is your reasoning? You say: "Thanks to us, it is no longer 492 but 505 doctors a year. That's much better." But what you always forget to say, and it's irritating, is that the Planning Commission had identified a need, on the francophone side, not 492, not 505, but 607. The delta that my colleague mentioned earlier is not the delta with what was done a few years ago. The challenge is to adapt to health needs. The health needs identified by the Planning Commission are 607 on the Francophone side; 505, that is 102 fewer doctors per year. Over the years, this represents a great deal, especially since there is a reality that we all face, in Flanders in certain places, in Wallonia and in Brussels, for certain types of shortages.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck, for your intervention. I would also like to point out that the principle of negative smoothing must be taken into account in your calculation. And if we are forced to do a negative smoothing, it is because there have been shortcomings before. We can discuss this as much as we want, simply because the rules have not been respected before, we are obliged to go through this system over the next 15 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u67	It's unfair!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u68	No, it's not unfair, Mr. Maingain! What is unfair is that you did not respect the rules from the start. I understand very well that, somewhere, we don't want to recognize the error that was made by not putting a filter at the entrance. But in the meantime, this mistake was made. That is why we find ourselves in the current situation and, in order to fulfil our commitment under the agreement, we must proceed with a negative smoothing. That's what's going on!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u69	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u70	Mrs Onkelinx, we are not going to argue! If you had found the solution ten years ago, we wouldn't be there!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u71	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u72	No, no, no! You never found the solution. Otherwise, we wouldn't be discussing it here! Mr. Maingain, I am very familiar with your position and above all with the desire to always say, "We defend the francophones." Well, we, Mr. Maingain, defend doctors and their future! All the doctors!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u73	What about the patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u74	But of course, patients, who are at the heart of the debate, in order to be well treated, must be able to call on doctors who have been properly trained and who are qualified. Thanks to this project, we are moving in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u75	What about the doctors coming from abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u76	I'm actually going to talk to you about foreign doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u77	Mr Thiéry, the Planning Commission says that, given a whole series of criteria on which I will come back, we need a minimum of 607 doctors a year on the French side. And you say, "No, it's a scandal, you have to smooth, you have to hurt." But during that time, there are three times as many who return every year from abroad. And you are telling us, as I heard from a colleague earlier, to pay attention to payability: we absolutely need 100 doctors less on the part of Francophones. But there are 300 who come during that time from abroad. And for these, there is no problem of payability! The years pass and we let them arrive. When you are proposed to make a quota which can be justified in relation to European regulations, you refuse to accept it on the basis of the free movement of diplomas. And the freedom to choose one's profession and the freedom to settle as a doctor? You're forgetting them. But you defend free movement! You justify your decision with questions of public health, payability, quality of care, and you say that you have to quota. So hold this argument and quota in Belgium, foreigners and especially Europeans! Or your quota is absurd and makes no sense. You explain that we must penalise Belgians on either side of the linguistic border! I will not make it a Community matter. But you prefer to tell young Belgians, both Dutch-speaking and French-speaking, that they cannot do medicine for budget and other issues while Europeans settle in their place. This, for you, is not a concern for payability and health care! This is the world of "absurdness" version government MR-N-VA-CD&V-Vld!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u78	Mrs. Fonck, Mrs. Onkelinx, you're quite emotional. I like your indignation, but where was that indignation for twenty years, when so many Flemish boys and girls were not successful every year, or were successful, but simply unable to start their studies? For 20 years! Why don't you explain that to the parents? On the French-speaking side, on the other hand, everyone could start the studies. Where were you? I know where you were. Just look at the physicists' file, in which it was also said for years that one had to take an exam after the studies if there were too many graduates. Flemish boys and girls have had to take an exam to get a RIZIV number for years, after four or five years of study, until the first year that there were too many French-speaking graduates and at that time the exam has been abolished by you, Mrs Onkelinx. That is your outrage!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u79	Mr President, like many of us here, I believe that in medical matters we need planning. It's obvious! For the quality of health care, for specialists to be available in each discipline and for accessibility anywhere in the country, planning must be done. Therefore, the problem does not arise at the planning level. But we need smart planning. We are told that there was planning, a quota that was respected on the Dutch-speaking side but not on the French-speaking side. We've proven it wrong in the past. When you decided to take an examination for entry into the Flemish Community, it was never on the basis of the quota figures. You know that because, despite the entrance exam, you were beyond the quota figures. The numbers prove it. It wasn't a review to comply. It was an entrance exam. Whatever! But you were also, to a different extent than on the francophone side, beyond the figures that had been given by the planning. To return to the shortage, in the last legislature, one solution was to say: do no more quotaing in the jobs in need, while considering that, overall, there was obviously a need to continue planning work. There had been an agreement at first reading on this order which solved a series of problems. This order was the subject of a scream by the N-VA, who was then in the opposition! Francophones, including the MR at the time, felt that the N-VA was wrong. We are now under the new legislature and the MR finds that the N-VA is right. That's why I was talking about "carpet strategy." I say and I repeat that the solution you are bringing is obviously wrong. I come to my last argument. At the beginning of the legislature, the minister had promised that, for her part, she would respect the advice of the Planning Commission, which included French-speaking and Dutch-speaking people to study the file and examine the particularities of the subregions. The Planning Commission then submitted a proposal. And what did the government do? It rejected the findings. When the minister is then questioned, what does she say? "What do you want? It's political!" If it is not proof that a Community problem has arisen and that the MR and the Open Vld - who had said that they would respect the Planning Commission - have accepted arguments from the N-VA based on the principle of 'take it or leave it', I do not understand anything! That is why I regret that, in this case, you did not take into account not only the interests of doctors, but also the interests of patients from all over the country, and that you simply accepted the demands of a party whose trade fund is solely Community.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u80	Mr President, emotions are raging on some banks. Mrs Onkelinx, I know you tried to reach an agreement in the previous government. You went very far and you fought with the strength we know you. But it didn't work. I've been looking for a solution with Mr. Marcourt, whom you know well. It was not easy for him or for me, but we found a solution, which I respected. I gave an INAMI number to the students who were in training, while his plan to put in place an entry examination for Francophone students was not maintained. But I've been patient, as always. When you say it's a community file, it's true. Indeed, in Wallonia, too many doctors have been trained for years and years. The double cohort will bring you a large number of doctors to your hospitals and communes. It's an opportunity, but it can't go on. For this reason, it was necessary to have a quota to avoid a plethora of doctors in six or seven years' time, which would not be good for the quality of training or public health. This solution has been accepted by the government, discussions have not been easy, but I think it is necessary for students who are still in training. If they do not have access to the profession after five or six years of study, it will be serious. You, too, had sought a solution, which was not the same as mine. And I think that this subject deserves a consensus within the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u81	Mr President, I would like to send a message about the shortage. Indeed, there are real regional disparities and significant differences between the subregions of the same Region. This clearly points out that it is not the numerus clausus as such that is responsible for the inadequacy of medical offers in certain areas, it is the lack of attractiveness of the profession of general practitioner that is causing problems, first of all, in the university, even though it has recently been found that the trend was being corrected. Let us hope that this is still the case in the near future. I would also like to point out that there are other circumstances to be taken into account for the time being. Indeed, the profession is feminizing, if I can express myself in this way. There is a willingness on the part of doctors to adapt an hourly range, possibly to do fewer guards to allow a higher quality of family life. These elements must, of course, be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u82	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u83	You're absolutely right, Mrs. Fonck. As far as foreign doctors are concerned, I would like to point out that, contrary to what has been said, foreign doctors are out of quota, except, of course, if they are studying in Belgium. Mrs Fonck, we had a discussion in committee about Romanian doctors. I hope that you now have figures to determine whether it is the Belgian doctors who are going to study in Romania in order not to enter the quotas. I hope you have the numbers. As far as I'm concerned, I've got them, but we'll hear your point of view on this, earlier. I won't stretch much more. I think this debate is extremely sensitive. The text under consideration has been the subject of very intense discussions in committee, and this is still the case today. But once again, I would like to point out that if a solution had been ideal, if a solution had been known, it would have been put in place a few years ago. It is because we have not found a solution so far, it is mainly because we had to find a solution for the doctors who were leaving in 2017 and the future doctors, in any case on the francophone side, that we have found a compromise which, contrary to what I have heard, is absolutely not at the disadvantage of each other, but which takes into account a historical situation that should be dealt with. That is why the compromise of this bill does not, as has been said or as is suggested, disadvantage Francophone physicians. We will therefore support this draft, which is now being put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. I believe that a great deal has already been said. Let me be clear: my party will support this bill, not because it is ideal, but for us it is a balanced agreement that will satisfy many of our concerns. We have had two basic principles for years. Firstly, we must provide legal certainty for young people, regardless of their place of residence. If they start studies, they should also be able to access further specialisation and the labour market after these long studies. This has always been our objective. One cannot leave young people in that uncertainty. Secondly, there must be equal treatment regardless of the place of residence of those young people. They must all have the same rights, but also the same obligations when they are given access to those studies. We also know that this uncertainty was not created by the federal level. We also know that this equality has not yet been achieved. We hope it will come about with this bill. In the discussion there are three important substantive arguments for us, which we also see as finalized in this draft law. Firstly, there will be an effective filter in both parts of the country. We are pleased that it has been introduced. That filter will also produce results. Mr Frédéric, you referred to the fact that an entry test could lead to inferior doctors, to weakening or to poor quality. We are also convinced that there were many good doctors among the students who did not pass the entrance exam on the Flemish side. However, you should not go to the federal level because the Communities are responsible for the filter that is the entrance examination. They may determine the criteria of the entrance examination. I notice that in Flanders the exam has been modified several times in recent years. It was adapted because they wanted to test not only young people for their knowledge, but also for their competences and skills. You have this in your hands. If you consider that the result is insufficient, the Communities have the power to adjust on the basis of the examination. Our first important, substantive argument, the filter, is now there. Secondly, it was extremely important for us that there should also be a mechanism for both deficits and surpluses. In connection with the deficits, there is a good arrangement, which starts in 2024. I would like to point out that accompanying measures must also be taken with regard to deficits so that the deficits on the Flemish side can be resolved quickly. A third aspect which has always been important to us and which is often due to the emotions in the debate which has disappeared into the background, is the sufficient number of internships. There have also been consultations with the Communities. There should be sufficient attention to placements, both in terms of funding and in terms of deployment outside university hospitals. There are currently agreements with many general hospitals to cope with the double cohort and to monitor the quality of the training of all those young people. Our three conditions for this bill have been met. CD&V will be happy to support this bill today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u85	Mr President, much has already been said, but I would like to summarise briefly. What is before us today is a generous compromise. For example, this bill gives the Walloon students who started the medical course the guarantee that they will receive a RIZIV number. This bill also guarantees the viability of the French-speaking medical faculties, even if the French-speaking doctors are shortened. This draft law provides a solution to a problem that lasts for 20 years. Overpayments will be eliminated and deficits will be filled, thus restoring the balance agreed at the end of the last century. The aim of this bill is not to harm one or the other, but to safeguard the quality of medicine. Much can be discussed about the calculations of the Planning Committee, but one must also know that any assessment is merely an assessment. However, it is impossible to say that many parameters have not been taken into account here. For the distribution of the federal quota between the Communities, we take effective account of the population. I do not think there can be a fairer, more objective distribution key.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u86	Mr President, Mrs Van Peel said that she has been following this dossier for ten years. Well, I've known it for 20 years. It is indeed a difficult dossier, but I will be more serene in my speech. First of all, I will make a few positive points. This draft law is indeed the result of a very long consultation. The first agreements were made in 1996. What's the plus? That the noses are in the same direction today. That is a merit in itself. As other colleagues have said, this draft involves regularisation, which was necessary. It also seems to me to be a fair regularization. The aim of this draft law is to establish, for the future, the mechanisms by which quotas are implemented year after year in an equal and rigorous way. We have seen in recent years that this has produced a number of results in Flanders which, in terms of the regulation of health professions, have been positive in two respects. Firstly, to correct the shortage of general practitioners, I have also experienced this, to ensure that there are sufficient general practitioners. Secondly, for shift of emphasis among specialists, because there are too many for one specialty, resulting in overconsumption, and too little for the other specialty. These subquotas can remedy this. So much for the good news. I come to a number of pain points and negative points. There are a number of missed opportunities. It is very important that such quotas can be linked to a policy of diversification. I know that this is a matter for the Communities, but this draft law does not resolve a number of issues. For example, there are currently far too many hospital beds, especially in Brussels. International research shows clearly that strengthening primary care must be accompanied by the courage to withdraw a number of hospital beds, in order to avoid a suction effect. Another chance left here is to strengthen the first line and introduce an echelon ring. A further point of concern, the last one I shall mention here, has been mentioned by many speakers. The Federal Planning Commission's indicators are good, they've evolved over the years. We now have 25 indicators that take due account of needs. It is therefore an extremely missed opportunity that this has not been extended to the Communities. When I hear the emotions, the reservations and the opposites, the main thing is that a strange criterion has been put in place in Brussels for enrolments in schools, with population numbers and so on. The federal planning committee has a good way of working. It seems to me quite logical that this should be the criterion for applying it everywhere, including in the Communities and in Brussels. We have also tabled an amendment on this point. My colleague Muriel Gerkens will explain. The Ecolo Green Group will abstain from voting on the draft law. My colleague will also make a further comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u87	Madam Minister, I will first make an introduction that will remind you of my intervention earlier, as well as others that I have already made to you and to some of my colleagues. We are faced with decisions to be made, which are linked to the health and public health policies we want to pursue. That is the goal we are all pursuing right now! What does it mean to have a vision, a public health policy? It is obviously taking the time to assess the health care needs in relation to the existing supply, the characteristics of the populations, and by analysing how the health care force behaves and is composed on the ground. It is also to take into account the specificities of the territories and areas. A city with hospitals and nursing homes does not have the same needs as a rural area where there are almost no institutions. The need for outpatients, specialist physicians will be different, depending on whether the ambulance or hospital model is being treated. All these elements are important. These are the ones I would like to consider when assessing the health care supply that will best meet the needs. I am speaking to the minister, but also to Mrs.Onkelinx, who was Minister of Health, and to whom I also met at times. In 2006, I submitted a first text, which Ecolo-Groen resubmitted in 2008, 2010, and 2014. The text suggested that all these criteria should be used. Some criteria of population characteristics are reflected in the work of the Planning Commission now, but this is very recent. These criteria relating to the characteristics of the population were to say: "Let us share these basins of care, these territorial units that have meaning. Let us assess with the actors who are on-site the needs covered or not and let the National Planning Commission know what will be needed in terms of health professionals, in this case doctors or dentists! From that point on, we can determine the number of professionals or doctors we will need in the next three or ten years and continue this exercise." The territorial dimension, the basins of care dimension, has never been accepted or taken into account. Even today, it is a dimension that is not considered by this bill. We really think it's a mistake because that's what makes us know what we're talking about when we say we need so many caregivers or doctors. At the same time, Ecolo, in the French Community, has also submitted proposals for decrees to organize health studies differently and to say that precisely, there are all those who are interested in these studies and then there is guidance. This can be done through medicine or any medical specialization. It can be done after a number of years in nursing, other types of specializations or professions. The idea was not to sacrifice students, not to sacrifice citizens or young people in a choice, but to guide them, taking into account their abilities, preferences and changing profile. When I hear what needs to be done and why we are doing it, that is to say, repairing something that has been decided in the past and the Flemish students that have been sacrificed, I would remind you that it is the Flemish policies that have sacrificed the students. There were other possibilities. You chose this one. It was necessary to take on the choices that had been made, but there was a way to do otherwise. I think that it is not too late to continue to reflect on how to make a willingness to provide care and the coverage of a need, on the one hand, and the training of those who will have to exercise such care, on the other hand, compatible. Quotations were based on the belief that too many doctors would cost too much. It is said that there are plethora of French-speaking doctors. Admit it! French-language care is no more expensive, proportionately, than care in Flanders. No one would dare say, now, that it is based on the number of doctors that health care costs are calculated. No! Now, doctors work less, because they want to enjoy their family life and they want to have a social life and a cultural life. If we need more doctors who work less, it does not cost one more euro for social security, because we pay benefits. There is a time when we must also come out of beliefs, myths and finally dare to re-examine situations, rest the right questions and work together on solutions. The planning commission has evolved. Madam Minister, we welcomed the fact that from now on the Planning Commission will take into account additional criteria: the socio-economic data of the population and the working strength of doctors in the field. If there were a plethora of doctors in one region or another, the Planning Commission would take this into account, as it takes into account the labour force. She wouldn't say it still takes so much. If in spite of this plethora, despite what has happened in the past, it tells us that it will take 600, it will take 600. It is not necessary to make corrections and remove for the future people won in the past. In principle, it has taken this into account. Even in the logic and mathematical reasoning behind the decisions made in this project, there is something wrong. Fair realities are not taken into account. Madam Minister, I, along with my colleague Mrs Anne Dedry, have tabled an amendment. It is not intended to change the way in which the Planning Commission will assess the number of future doctors required throughout the country. But from the very moment that there has been this positive development with the consideration of population and labour force criteria, the distribution of doctors must also be considered taking these criteria into account. The Planning Commission – or the Court of Auditors – must be able to allocate these doctors according to where we need them more or less, on the basis of these different criteria. At that time, a link will be established with the needs. The Council of State says that all work has been done and that doctors are being redistributed, losing the benefit of the work provided by the Planning Commission. If there is a real willingness to meet health care needs, this kind of amendment must be accepted. Madam Minister, a final word about these foreign students who come to Belgium to practice, after their studies, with a diploma that is not Belgian. You have to be honest: they are here and if they immigrate, it is because we need this workforce. If they couldn't make a living in our country, they wouldn't come. They moved a little to Flanders and a lot to Wallonia. We do not take sufficient account of reality. Among the foreign students who come to Belgium to study and who will thus finish with a Belgian diploma, on the French side, many new doctors remain in our territory and do not leave, which is not the case on the Dutch-speaking side. I'm not saying it's better on one side and less good on the other. I say that different realities exist, which are important in meeting health care needs. A Belgian public health policy must incorporate these dimensions. My colleague Anne Dedry told you that our group would abstain. Personally, I am going to vote against, in order to give concrete expression to the criticisms I have just made. What I want to add in conclusion is that this way of acting and not taking into account the needs, the specificities of the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels people, incorporates a detestable Community dimension in the management of this dossier. If our group abstains from this project, it is to show you that by taking negative Community positions in this area, you will not be able to divide us between Ecolo and Groen, we who are mobilized by a public health policy for the benefit of all!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u88	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, this piece of legislation today is quite astounding. It reflects the fact that you are preventing young Belgians from practising medicine or dentistry. You are organising a system that ultimately prevents our young people, wherever they come from in Belgium, from practising medicine or dentistry, and at the same time, a system that imports foreign doctors and dentists without any restrictions. It's a complete nonsense. That's what you're doing. In two ways: both in what this bill contains, but also in what it does not contain. I'll focus first on what's in it. One of the most challenging elements is that you decide, even though everyone – and in my opinion in almost all political parties – has praised in recent years the way in which the Planning Commission had used increasingly dynamic and precise cadastres on the effective working force of doctors and dentists in Belgium, to move from a scientific logic, based on public health needs, to a political logic. And, in addition, what a choice of political logic! This draft law now bases the distribution of the overall quota among the Communities on the basis of the number of inhabitants, except for the Brussels-Capital Region where you use the famous criterion of the "pupils" key. So far, the distribution had always been established by the Planning Commission on an objective basis of public health needs. Of course, the figures they presented did not suddenly please some members of your majority. When objective conclusions are no longer in order, it is decided not to follow the Planning Commission. And even some members of your majority – not all of them, it's true – have found no better than denigrating the work that she had done. I absolutely disagree with you. It is enough, moreover, to look at the work carried out by this body for years, but also at its composition. I don't have any friends, I'll say that. I'm by chance turning around... a prominent elected member of the MR is a member of it. I believe that the manner in which some members of the majority have royally denigrated the work of the Planning Commission is totally unacceptable, but also disrespectful. As some people ask who is the chosen one I am talking about, I would point out that this is Mr Brochi. You thought that these numbers were not pleasant and that you would have preferred other results. You then abandoned this scientific logic in favour of a political logic. The evidence based medicine, Madam Minister, must not only serve as a criterion when it suits you, to prefer to it at other times a political logic. As it did not suit you, when it was necessary to divide the needs between the Communities, you decided to dispense with the opinion and the work done by the Planning Commission. And then you wondered what criteria you were going to use in your purely political logic. For the Brussels-Capital Region, you have chosen the "pupils" key. Well, that's what we know! Health care is only zero to eighteen years old! We're not going to take care of the health care of the four-year-olds and the older, we don't care! The Council of State did not fail to remove the criterion of allocation of the "pupils" key. Indeed, it is totally alien to the problem of the medical supply and the needs of doctors. We're swimming in the most complete arbitrariness. I wondered why you chose the "pupils" key. There must have been a reason. Why this criterion? What motivates you? I tried to look for and listen to the arguments that you advanced and that, by the way, had neither tail nor head. I wondered why they did not take the same criteria for Flanders and Wallonia on the Brussels-Capital Region. Since you did not want to rely on the Planning Commission, you could at least have relied on the entire population. Nevertheless, I have been looking for it and I would like to remind you of it by referring in particular to my colleagues in the MR, a very small analysis of the distribution of the Brussels-Capital Region according to the criterion that is taken. Indeed, by taking the "pupils" key on which you rely for this bill, the distribution on the Brussels-Capital Region is 83% French-speaking and 17% Dutch-speaking. If one takes a criterion not from zero to eighteen years but that of the population since it is the one you have chosen from the rest of Belgium, several aspects can be used. I will mention two of them: the identity card and the tax return. The result is recorded for the identity card: 92% of Francophones and 8% of Dutch speakers. And according to the criteria of the tax return: 93% of Francophones and 7% of Dutch speakers. No, I don't! You have decided in fine not a criterion a little logical or consistent, no! You opted for the criterion that allowed the Brussels-Capital Region to have the worst score for Francophones. You had other accessible criteria, but you made the choice to take the criterion for which you thought that, in substance, it was not very serious. This does not correspond to the reality or the health needs of the population, but you take the criterion that is most unfavourable to Francophones and that has no meaning in terms of the approach and logic of health. We're rarely in full arbitrariness. We are totally against the use of a political criterion in this case. Even for me, the "pupils" key or any other criterion has no logic in the Brussels-Capital Region. As a first choice, we propose, by amendment, to continue the work carried out by the Planning Commission by giving it the responsibility to set quotas per Community according to the needs of each of them. We opt for a return to scientific logic and health logic. However, if you persist in your vision of a purely political criterion, we cannot accept that you take the most unfavourable criterion for Francophones, as you do at the government level. As a subsidiary of the Planning Commission, we therefore propose to take the criterion of the language of the identity card. This is obviously not the best criterion. The best thing is the Planning Commission, but if you persist in a purely political logic, then at least one criterion is necessary to take into account the reality of the inhabitants of the Brussels-Capital Region. You are moving from scientific logic and public health needs to political logic. But, in addition, your bill completely denies the existence of a shortage. The most disturbing thing is that, in this bill, you deny the existence of certain types of shortages unilaterally. Now it's written black and white. The bill, the presentation, and the commentary to the articles, recognize the existence of certain types of shortage on the Dutch-speaking side. I don't have a problem with that. On the other hand, it denies the existence of certain types of shortage on the francophone side, while the objective elements are clearly present. Some municipalities in Wallonia and Brussels are in short supply today, it is shown. Is there, as on the Dutch-speaking side, a shortage for some specializations on the French-speaking side? Yes, it's proven. The Planning Commission has shown the age pyramids of doctors, where a large number of doctors are close to the pension age. And this phenomenon is more important today on the French-speaking side than on the Dutch-speaking side. I do not have a problem with the Dutch-speaking shortage. But I find it shocking, ladies and gentlemen of the MR, when you know the reality, that for some of you this is happening even in your communes, that you have made the choice of writing black on white that there was no shortage in Wallonia and Brussels. I explained what the Planning Commission proposed with this figure of 607 physicians on the francophone side. I won't come back. I have explained in committee everything that was wrong with your bill, but there is also everything that it does not contain. You have never stopped justifying quotas for questions of quality of care, but also for the financial balance at the level of social security. I heard the word "payability" earlier. A lot can be said about the relevance or not of this model. I heard Mr Brochi say a few weeks ago that he did not agree at all that the quota should be linked to the financial sustainability component. But let's leave that aside, I'm not going to get into this discussion. What interests me more is that if you justify your bill by saying that it is absolutely necessary to quota and that it is necessary to be effective on quotas for issues of financial balance of social security, then it must concern all doctors and dentists who settle and begin to practise their profession. But this is not what you are doing since you decide to penalize and limit young Belgians by at the same time leaving the door open to all foreign doctors who come to Belgium. We don't talk about a few, we talk about hundreds every year. Of Francophone physicians who have taken an INAMI number and who have settled, 40% are foreign physicians. And it's even more at the level of dentists: 50% of the INAMI numbers distributed in 2016 are to foreigners.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u89	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u90	Mr Clarinval, choose your arguments better! Who put in place a quota because there was a flood of the French in certain faculties, especially in the faculties that concern the professions of health? Who organized this? Who was able to fight at European level to get it? Who has been able to take the lead at European level? Fortunately, since today, with the non-resident decree, there is a limitation on the entry of medical studies. I am not talking about that, but about doctors who have been trained at a university abroad, who are arriving in Belgium, who are settling there and who have an INAMI number of their own. That's where the problem is. In fact, either the quota is justified for reasons of public health funding, or it is not. But if it is justified, I must be told why every year several hundred foreign doctors, who will do curative work and cost social security, will come to settle. Then you all invoke the free movement of diplomas: "Warning! Nothing can be done at European level." I absolutely disagree with you. I'll take three minutes to explain it to you. It requires mobilization and, Madam Minister, it is your job and your responsibility. This requires work and it requires putting the debate on the European place. I can already tell you today that health ministers in other European countries are now having the same thinking as I am going to explain to you right now. You decide, through quotas, to deprive a number of young people of the free choice of their profession. The free choice of profession is a right to which the Constitutional Court has recognized a constitutional value. You justify this restriction by preserving public health. The same reasoning can be taken at European level. It is true that a quota of European doctors would deprive these young Europeans of their right to free movement, which was enshrined in the Treaty of Rome. However, the European Treaties also allow infringements of freedom of movement if they are justified on grounds of public health. This is what the Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court concluded when the French Community introduced quotas for non-resident students, therefore non-Belgian Europeans, in veterinary medicine, but also in physiotherapy. With your public health arguments, you should be able to justify these public health criteria in the same way for a quota which would then also apply to European doctors. This holds the way on the European level. It is not normal to continue to be part of a logic in which you discriminate against our young people in relation to young Europeans. If you consider that the European quota does not hold the road, that it does not make sense and that it is not very serious for the problems of public health and this famous payability that you mentioned, it makes no sense to continue to exercise a quota at home in Belgium. That doesn't make any sense! If all doctors and dentists who move to Belgium are quotaed, what you are already doing, we must do the same at European level. Otherwise, it doesn't make sense! I didn't give a lot of numbers. Yet there are a lot of them. I will only recall the figures for the last five years. In Belgium, between 2012 and 2016, a total of 3,069 Dutch-speaking doctors and 2,053 French-speaking doctors settled. They're not my figures, they're from INAMI. This represents a fairly logical ratio. If we add to these figures the foreign doctors who came to Belgium, there is no longer a 60/40 distribution. In order not to flood you with figures, I will simply give you the figures for 2016. This is the last year for which figures are available. Four hundred and thirty-six Belgian Francophone graduates received an INAMI number. Six hundred and forty-six Dutch-speaking doctors received an INAMI number, according to key 60/40. Europeans are 76 in the Flemish Community. It is true that they are much less numerous, but language is a factor that can explain this fact. In total, there are 727 of them. If we add European doctors, on the French side, we are no longer at 436. There are 232 foreigners and 696 Belgian and European doctors have settled in the French Community. When foreign physicians are taken into account, the ratio of physicians who received an INAMI number on the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking side is not at all the same: 696 versus 727. On the other hand, if we look only at Belgians, we have 436 Francophones (40%) and 646 Dutch speakers (60%).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u91	Mr Fonck, do you actually have a shortage or too much of doctors in French-speaking Belgium? I have heard you complain for an hour about the fact that there are too many foreign doctors, although I do not understand what you have against foreigners, but those many foreign doctors are a perfect solution, as you have been saying for an hour that there are too few doctors in French-speaking Belgium. So be happy, or know what you desire.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u92	Mrs Van Peel, by means of a quota, without taking into account the needs in the field of public health, you are organising a genuine social medical dumping and you are creating a phenomenon of aspiration of foreign doctors. It wasn't like that before. Go check the number of European doctors who came to Belgium ten years ago: he had nothing to do with today's. Indeed, we see an air call every year. Ladies and gentlemen, who do not sit in the Committee on Health, I will tell you that specialised agencies have established themselves in Belgium. Their aim is only to promote and allow the arrival of foreign doctors. I can give you the names. They have gignon on the street in Belgium and will recruit foreign doctors to bring them here, with an all-out package, i.e. administrative facilitation, the diplomas for which all the steps are facilitated. Everything is done. Contacts are even established directly with hospitals. Go to the websites, you will find them very quickly!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u93	Mr President, I intended not to say anything. I have been listening to this debate for four years now and as the sole survivor of the entrance exam in Flanders in the hemisphere, I might add something to the debate. It really bothers me that, for example, Mrs Fonck constantly complains about the free choice for students. That free choice has been lost to Flemish students for 20 years. The entrance exam is a must there, because it is the only way to start the studies. However, the free choice of a study is completely pointless if, after completing his studies, one does not have any job security. If you do not find a job because there are too many doctors, then you will have your expensive diploma there, and that cannot be the aim you want for the French-speaking students. I have a second comment. I understand your concerns about foreign doctors, really, Mrs. Fonck. This could potentially become a problem in the future and should be monitored in both parts of the country so that we can monitor it very closely. However, you will forget that Flemish and Walloon students who graduate from our school also go abroad. As long as these are communicating vessels, the free movement of diplomas in Europe applies to everyone. Besides, you're saying there's a shortage of doctors, which I absolutely want to challenge. You are not short of doctors, but if you were short of doctors, you would have to receive these foreigners with open arms. That is what we do in Flanders: we lead foreign doctors to those particular subquotas in which we lack doctors. They fill in, as it were, our bottleneck professions. It is true that headhunter agencies are sometimes written to look for those people. Finally, I would like to make a final comment on quotas. You always forget that this is actually a blessing for the student himself. It gives oxygen to the training, ensures better quality, for more time at the patient's bed, which should not be shared with hundreds of other students. It provides better doctors, and that can only benefit all French speakers in our country who will receive better care. I really don't understand why you keep resisting this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u94	Mrs. Fonck, would you like another word? No?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u95	Yes, Mr. President. I'm going to go back. You know the song. An hour, no! But if you want, it can be two hours! To "relaunch the debate in all senses".... I don't think I'm going in every direction, Mrs. De Block. Tell me what I've been talking about here that has nothing to do with the bill. I'm listening. Go on! All charges have been brought since this afternoon! You accused us of lying. You accused us of being blind. You accused us of being deaf. It started at 2:15 p.m. Now, if we add more, it's still going to be complicated. Did I, yes or no, in my argument on this bill say something that had nothing to do with the bill? Tell us!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u96	Mrs Fonck, since you're asking questions, I'm going to ask you one too. You claimed in committee that Belgian doctors were going to study in Romania so that, on their return, they could not enter quotas to get their INAMI number. How many Belgian doctors are going to study in Romania, Mrs Fonck? I asked you the question in committee. You've never been able to answer. I would like to have an answer today. You say we call you a liar. We do not say that! In any case, I would never dare say that. On the other hand, I think there are arguments that should be avoided because it can turn against you. Now, I expect a clear answer to my question: how many Belgian doctors have done or are they studying in Romania and going back to Belgium to get their number? If you have the names, it's perfect. I don't have it, but I have the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u97	I don't have the names, but I can imagine who gave you the numbers. Yes or no, some of our students are going to pursue their studies... [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u98	Let Mrs. Fonck speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u99	We are not going to get away with this debate. [[Brouhahaha]] I'll give you a number. Do you know how many foreign doctors received an INAMI number in 2016? 341. What about 2015? 380. And 2014? 373. What about 2013? 359. We can hold on like this for a long time... The problem in this case is that I heard for the first time...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u100	Mrs Fonck, Mr Thiéry asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u101	Mrs Fonck, let's be serious for a moment! In committee, you have twice claimed that Belgians are going to study in Romania. You said it. I asked you twice who it was or, in any case, how many of them were. You've never been able to answer me. I'll tell you why. Indeed, I have the figures, because I went to Romania to ask for them. (...): Names!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u102	No, I don't have the names! In short, for 2016-17, 50 Belgian citizens continue their studies in Romania. The breakdown into cycles of teaching is as follows: three students in preparatory training, four in university studies with a bachelor's degree, three in university studies with a master's degree and one doctoral student. This means that if the latter person succeeds, it is the only person who could return to Belgium with a doctorate. Mrs Fonck, you're claiming something and you're clearly accusing us in committee, saying, "That's what's going to happen: everyone is going to go abroad to study so that they can return to Belgium." What you claimed was not the truth. You give a false impression of what is happening in Belgium and that is not correct! That's the only thing I wanted to emphasize, but I understand that you don't know how to answer my question. This means that you are using false arguments!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u103	Did I say in committee that everyone was going to study in Romania? No. But on the other hand, you know, it still makes me a little laugh because we're talking... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u104	Well, that's good! I'm glad we can laugh! Go and explain tomorrow to Dutch-speaking young people or to French-speaking young people - no matter what - that, basically, you cannot continue your medical studies and that you have to quota a number X - I no longer go into the details of the figures - but that there are as many of them as you let come from abroad. For the first time, I hear a colleague from the majority say that indeed, it is a serious problem that there are as many of those who can come to us. Now they say, all of a sudden, we're going to monitor. About the figures, they are the official figures of INAMI. I gave them earlier, going back a few years, and no, I'm not going to repeat them now! It's not something that happened once in the last six or seven years, it happens every year. This is not about a small number, but, as I told you earlier, it is about several hundred people. The monitoring is done. You have to stop going around in circles thinking that we'll see in five years if it's still the same thing. I propose by amendment, and I have also tabled a proposal for a law on the same subject, to be able to introduce a system which allows European doctors and dentists coming to Belgium and who request an INAMI number. As I explained earlier, this can be largely justified in relation to the stakes and even more so in relation to free movement at European level. Since you justify the Belgian quota, you can do so at European level with the same limitation and argumentation. Minister, this is also your responsibility. You can't stand in front of something that repeats every year. I note that ministers are waking up in a number of other Member States. You, too, must take your pilgrim's stick and put it on the European square. We must be able to remember what has been achieved with regard to non-resident decrees, particularly in the French Community, since we can build a solid legal argument that will enable Europeans to be quotaed. If we don't, there's no logic to keep the current system going. If we decide to continue the quota in Belgium, we must also do so at European level. So we have tabled a whole series of amendments to your bill, both to redefine things by the Planning Commission and thus to a scientific logic and public health needs, and not to a political logic that is the one you have chosen. They also aim to introduce a quota for European doctors and dentists, in the same way as for Belgians, by justifying it in legal terms. As I was telling you, we have also tabled a subsidiary amendment for the choice of identity card for the Brussels-Capital Region, if you do not decide to follow the amendment on the Planning Commission, which alone would decide on the allocation of quotas according to public health needs. Colleagues, this case is not over. I hope that, in the future, we will be able to meet on a fight that can be common, logical and that can serve both the North, Brussels and the South. If we don't wake up tomorrow, the difficulties associated with the arrival of foreign doctors will become more and more important everywhere in Belgium, even as we quota our own. Mr President, could we not, at some point, work together on this extremely important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u105	Mr President, at this time I shall be brief, especially since many arguments have been made. However, some essential data cannot be denied. Firstly, the Commission for the Planning of the Medical Supply, which brings together representatives and experts from both Communities and has worked on scientific grounds, questioned the key set arbitrarily in its time of access to the INAMI licences, up to 60% for doctors from the universities of the Flemish Community and 40% for the French Community. She herself proposed another key in an objective way: 56.5% - 43.5%. It's a data. Whether or not this was appropriate, the experts of the two Communities agreed. Two. To all those who say that there are plethora of doctors on the francophone side and that it was wrong to allow cohorts of doctors to be formed at a certain time, I note that the Walloon Observatory of Health, according to a cadastre that has been established, considers that of the 262 Walloon communes, 123 already encounter a relative shortage of general practitioners and 106 are already suffering a shortage. Some 10 communes are even considered to be in serious shortage with less than 50 generalists per 100,000 inhabitants. In addition, 40 Walloon communes are at risk of falling into a situation of shortage, given the advanced age of active doctors. If only one doctor takes his pension without being replaced, the municipality will then turn into a shortage. In Brussels, however, the situation is worrying, particularly because of the ageing of generalists. Doctors aged 50 and over provide more than 50% of the activity in Brussels with two well-known exceptions: Schaerbeek and Molenbeek. The record is reached in Uccle, where senior doctors take on more than 80% of the activity. These findings should therefore be taken into account scientifically. Your bill is discriminatory for the Brussels Region because you can try to justify it in any way, the arbitrary key that has been set on the basis of the number of students attending schools has not only nothing to do with the subject matter being dealt with, but it is also known that it does not correspond to the sociological reality. What is Mr Calomne doing in the press to ask questions about the linguistic distribution between French and Dutch speakers in Brussels? It was he who recently reported in La Libre Belgique on the outcome of his parliamentary questions. At the very least, there are no statistics on the issuance of identity cards, tax returns, the number of doctors registered with the Order; there are no statistics that give a distribution of less than 92% for Francophones and only 8% for Dutch speakers in Brussels. It is a sociological reality that all those who are the managers of Brussels' municipal institutions in particular see. So there is a 9 % difference between the statistics you have chosen and the sociological reality of Brussels, which means that 106 000 inhabitants have not been taken into account in calculating the quota of doctors and dentists for the French Community and that they have been paid into the quota for calculating for the Flemish Community. On the basis of the standard adopted by the experts, of more or less 9.9 full-time equivalents per 10,000 inhabitants, since there are 106 000 French-speaking inhabitants who have not been taken into account, Mr. Thiéry, this represents a differential per year of 107 doctors paid to the Dutch-speaking quota only because this majority decides to take a totally unfavourable criterion for Brussels-speaking Francophones, on the basis of a non-existent distribution. Mr Piedboeuf, if you show me that there are 16% Dutch speakers in Brussels, I invite you to take the champagne with me! But you will be unable to demonstrate this, because no statistics confirm this reality. Therefore, I can only say one thing: this bill is not a bill that meets the expectations of the medical community, contrary to what some say. And when we see the protest of francophone medical students in relation to this bill, we say that you are announcing to the young Francophones who are going to study medicine for the next few days because you are not going to meet their legitimate expectations and concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u106	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, I would say, although we will not last until the early morning. Congratulations, Madam Secretary, for sticking your neck out and finally putting forward a bill. It has had many detours and made a difficult course, but it is here today. On the positive side of the draft law, the problem of imbalance will be tackled, which may be after 20 years. At last, entrance exams will also be organized in the southern part of our country. I welcome the introduction of an enforcement mechanism for the future. Maybe I'm about to be told that I haven't been working on this file for very long. I admit that, but files can also be rehearsed and many questions can be asked about them. Madam Secretary, I would also like to give you a compliment in that regard. I have tabled several written questions and the comprehensive answers you give deserve to be mentioned as an answer, for which I thank you. Some Members think your draft law is too strict, but for me it does not go far enough and it is not strict enough. I have heard the previous speaker, but my view is somewhat different. I first sprinkled flowers, so now I get to throw the flowerpots, Madam Secretary. I wouldn't do that anyway; it's definitely a silly joke at this late hour. Madam Minister, with this draft there is still an opportunity to build up surpluses. You can do that at KB. I have absolutely no problem with the fact that a deficit can be transferred or compensated, but that does not apply to the building up of surpluses. We know that problem from the past. The French Community has constantly used up future RIZIV numbers, and a number of doctors are the result. We have therefore tabled a number of amendments, and one of them seeks to ensure that a deficit can be compensated but that there can be no surplus. Madam Minister, what also strikes me very much is that the same method of calculation has been used for years. The classic 60/40 distribution has been used for years. Just at the time of a Community standstill, this is suddenly going to be changed. The 60/40 ratio is released, according to some for the Brussels ratio. However, I would like to point out that the Brussels Act applies the ratio of 20/80. By letting go of this relationship, I am very afraid of the future, especially in view of the future Brussels negotiations. After all, if the 20/80 rule is to be set aside in the framework outlined, we do not know what awaits us in the future, in the course of negotiations on Brussels. The Community's standstill is therefore not respected. So we can say yes to that sentence, but we must be very careful with everything that is happening now. I understand the story. There will be an adjustment and a new method of calculation will suddenly be applied. And what is the explanation for this? That people want to do it another way. But if the surplus is to be calculated now, it will not be about 3 000 doctors, but about 1 531 doctors. The strange thing is that in 2015 the Planning Committee estimated the amount of doctors in the French Community for 2017 at 1 136 doctors and by 2020 at 2 758, if the figures are extrapolated to 2024, the French-speaking amount of doctors will be more than 3 000. Suddenly a different method of calculation is used. The rifle is shifted from shoulder, which I can only call a victoire francophone. Weird but true, the French speakers in this gremium obviously see this quite differently. I hear them saying that they have to take into account a large number of foreign students. I would like to point out that they have already received 1 500 extra places. If it were up to us, you would have had to cut down 3 000 places instead of 1 500. How do we suddenly get this new method of calculation? I find it very strange that this method of calculation was proposed by Mr Onkelinx at the time. She once said that the inactive RIZIV numbers should not be counted. That's what's happening now. That is why I do not understand the French, because Mrs Onkelinx's reasoning goes further. I do not understand why we are against this because it would have been a different story if we had cut down 3 000 places. There's only 1531. There is, of course, also the period during which this is to be brought to an end. We're talking about about 15 years. It is only from 2024 that the phase-out will start and this will take up to about 2038 to eliminate the surplus. We think that period is far too long. That deadline should be limited to 2030. We can reduce it a little more quickly than is currently proposed. The quotas for 2022 were not available. The quotas set for 2023 have not yet taken account of the negative bid. The surplus, now fixed at 1 531, has been calculated over the period 2004-2021. This means that there are no quotas for 2022. Then you can graduate as many people as you want. The quota for 2023 does not yet take account of a negative lissage. The distribution is then 58-42. I have the impression, Madam Minister, that there will probably be a surplus for the years 2022 and 2023 and that this surplus has not yet been settled. I am proposing an amendment to ensure that the surplus of those two years is also settled and reduced, preferably until 2030, and not until 2038. When I hear colleagues talking about foreign diplomas and quotas, I advise them to look at the answers to my written questions. Madam Secretary of State has given a clear answer to this question. As you can see, this draft does not go far enough for us. It could be a lot tighter. That is why we will not support the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u107	Mr President, very briefly. Many figures have already been mentioned and we have all almost been given a point head. I am very pleased that the quota system will apply throughout the country, in order to reconcile the need for care and the supply of care and to guarantee quality. I would like to comment on what Mr Maingain said. However, Mr Maingain, for the Brussels-Capital Region, it is not obvious that the number of inhabitants per community is simple. This is why the determination will take place on the basis of the number of pupils in Dutch-speaking and French-speaking basic and secondary education in the Brussels-Capital Region. The number of pupils will be used to divide the population of the Brussels-Capital Region between the Flemish Community and the French Community. The criterion for the number of pupils is that laid down in the Act of 23 May 2000 laying down the criterion referred to in Article 39(2) of the Special Act of 16 January 1989 on the financing of the Communities and the Regions. It is a key to allocation that was decided after the Federal Quotas were set by the Planning Commission. Mr President, I think this is the right time to thank all those who contributed to the debate and those who did not. I would also like to thank the services who have been very patient with us in the Chambers and here. It is a debate that has raged for 20 years in the cenacles of the committees and in this hemisphere and I am glad that we have reached an agreement within this government and that we have taken this step.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u108	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u109	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2652/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2652/7) The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u110	•11 – Catherine Fonck (2652/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u111	•12 – Catherine Fonck (2652/9) •13 – Catherine Fonck (2652/9) • 16... Veerle Wouters cs (2652/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u112	•14 – Catherine Fonck (2652/9) • 17 "Veerle Wouters cs" (2652/9) [[• ……]] 22 – André Frédéric (2652/9) • 21 – Muriel Gerkens cs (2652/9) •15 – Catherine Fonck (2652/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u113	[[• ……]] 23 – André Frédéric (2652/9) • 18 years old Veerle Wouters cs (2652/9) • 19 "Veerle Wouters cs" (2652/9) • 20.. Veerle Wouters cs (2652/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u114	• 24 – André Frédéric (2652/9) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u115	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u116	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Daniel Senesael, Fabienne Winckel, Jean-Marc Delizée. The Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal proposes to reject this proposal for a resolution. (2856/2) The Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2856/92) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u117	Mr President, I refer to the written report. Depending on what Mr Senesael will say, I will add one element.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, last November the European Commission renewed the licence for glyphosate for another five years. This decision shocked many scientists and environmental and health NGOs. It is also a slap for the more than one million people who have signed the European petition calling for a ban on glyphosate. These many citizens are right to be worried. In May 2015, the International Centre for Research on Cancer (IARC) - the specialized agency of the World Health Organization (WHO) - classified glyphosate as a probable carcinogen. I also recall the revelations of the Monsanto Papers, confidential documents revealing manipulations of scientific data in order to present glyphosate as harmless to human health. Faced with this danger to our people, the PS group asks the government to put in place a strategy to suppress glyphosate and to help farmers find alternatives to protect their crops. When I tabled this proposal in the Committee on Health, I thought I would get support from the majority, because our proposal for a ban is very much in line with the statements made by Minister Ducrame on TV sets. With this project, the PS group simply asks Minister Ducrame to move from speech to action. I was really surprised and disappointed that the majority refused to implement Minister Ducrame's promises. I find it shameful that Minister Ducrame makes good promises on television sets, and that when it comes to voting for a text to implement them, we find that the government does not really intend to ban glyphosate that threatens the health of our people. As politicians, it is our duty to protect the public when there are serious doubts about the danger of a substance. This is simply called, ladies and gentlemen, the precautionary principle. We must stop the dangerous pesticides that are found on our plates and threaten our health. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, too, to move from speech to action, and to protect the public by voting in favour of our proposal to ban glyphosate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u119	Mr President, I shall be brief because the debate has also taken place in committee. In this motion for a resolution there were five requests to the government. Application No. 5 was withdrawn by Mr Senesael. Demand 1 concerns cooperation with the Regions, but this cooperation already exists. Demand 2 requires active cooperation with the Member States of the European Union, but this is already under way as well. Application No 3 concerns cooperation with the agricultural sector, which is also in progress. Finally, application No 4 concerns the prohibition of the sale of glyphosate to individuals for non-professional purposes. This proposal is currently being prepared. There was therefore no reason to proceed with this resolution, since the minister in charge had the elements in hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u120	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u121	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Emir Kir, Willy Demeyer, Nawal Ben Hamou, Éric Thiébaut. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Prosecutor proposes that this proposal be rejected. (1885/3) The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service proposes to reject this proposal. (1885/3) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. The rapporteurs, Sarah Smeyers and Koen Metsu, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, some 15 days ago, the Committee on the Interior was putting an end to a two-year work on the situation of seriously ill foreigners and applying for residence on the basis of their medical situation. At the outset of this proposal, there is, in particular, a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights which found that Belgium did not organise an effective remedy against negative decisions for this category of applicants. Broad hearings and the contribution of the Federal Ombudsman have expanded the scope of these hearings and measured the extent of the problems posed by the current procedures. Not only are the appeals not effective, but the Agency's doctors cannot carry out their duties in accordance with medical ethics. Applicants do not have access to the necessary expertise and their files are dealt with only from an administrative point of view. Real access to care in their home countries is assessed too succinctly. All the weaknesses in the legislation and the denials of rights that we wish to redress through this proposal, with the help, in particular, of the cdH and Ecolo groups that I welcome here, a proposal which has finally been rejected by the majority in committee. If my group has asked to put it back on the agenda of this plenary session, Mr President, it is because there is also a government text on urgent medical aid carried by the MR. With this text that we have already discussed, the masks fall. It seems to me important to come back to the debate on medical regulation. The majority are campaigning against the health of people in situations of migration. It could have been believed that, at the beginning of the 21st century, the concern to make the world benefit from advances in medicine, to give real access to care, could have been the pride and concern of any advanced government. The concern of humanity in reality. But this is clearly not the government's. What I am concerned about, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is that we must not believe that the sick people, who are rejected under the circumstances I have described, disappear in nature. When we not only refuse to recognise the situation of the sick person, but, above the market, we put in place barriers between him and the care, as Mr Ducrame does, we can only hope that this rejection of any form of solidarity will not turn into a public health problem tomorrow. That is why we invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to review your judgment on this proposal and to approve here what your representatives in committee have rejected, for the sake of solidarity, humanity, respect for access to rights for all, and if these principles leave you with a sense of caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u123	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u124	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Inez De Coninck, Ahmed Laaouej, David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten, Luk Van Biesen, Karin Temmerman, Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet, Francis Delpérée. Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u125	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u126	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2908/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2908/1) The proposal of special law consists of 2 articles. The proposal for a special law consists of two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u127	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u128	Following the call for candidates for a mandate of female, Dutch-speaking member of the Executive Board of the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and Combating Discrimination and Racism, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 7 February 2018, the following candidacy was submitted: Ms Caroline Deiteren, Social Affairs Adviser at UNIZO. Following the call for candidates, published in the Belgian Monitor of 7 February 2018, for a term of office as a female, Dutch-speaking member of the Board of Directors of the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism and Discrimination, the following candidacy was submitted: Caroline Deiteren, Social Advisor to UNIZO. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 March 2018, I propose that the candidate's curriculum vitae be delivered to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 March 2018, I propose that you transmit the candidate's curriculum vitae to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u129	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 11 January 2018, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 1 February 2018 for the mandates of the Chairman and of first and second deputy chairman of the Standing Committee on the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 11 January 2018, a call for candidates for the terms of office of Chairman and the first and second alternate chairs of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 1 February 2018. Mr Serge Lipszyc (F), Prime Minister's Justice Advisor. The following candidacy was submitted within the time limit prescribed for the term of office of President: Mr. Serge Lipszyc (F), Justice Advisor to the Prime Minister. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 March 2018, I propose that the candidate's curriculum vitae for the mandate of Committee President I be sent to the political groups. Mr Serge Lipszyc will be heard by the committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 March 2018, I propose that you forward to the political groups the candidate's curriculum vitae for the term of office of Chairman of the Committee R. The Monitoring Committee of the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee R will proceed to the hearing of Mr Serge Lipszyc. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u130	By letter dated 1 March 2018, Mr Philippe Roland, first Chairman of the Court of Auditors, stated that Mr Jozef Beckers, Counselor, would reach the retirement age referred to in Article 1, third paragraph, of the Law of 29 October 1846 on the establishment of the Court of Auditors on 4 September 2018. By letter of 1 March 2018, Mr Philippe Roland, first President of the Court of Auditors, communicated that Mr Jozef Beckers, Counsellor, would, on 4 September 2018, reach the retirement age as stipulated in Article 1, paragraph 3, of the Act of 29 October 1846 on the organisation of the Court of Auditors. The Chamber should therefore proceed to the appointment of a new councillor for the Dutch Chamber of Auditors. The Chamber must therefore appoint a new adviser to the Dutch Chamber of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 1 of the same law, the Boards shall be appointed by the Chamber for a term of six years. Pursuant to article 1, paragraph 3, of the same Act, counsel shall be appointed by the Chamber for a term of six years. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 March 2018, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 14 March 2018, I propose that you publish a call for candidates for the Belgian Monitor. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u131	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u132	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[120]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[120]] Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2211/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2211/8) Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr David Geerts and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u133	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert an Article 8(n). (2890/7) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Muriel Gerkens cs to insert an article 8(n). (2890/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u134	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 75 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 127 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2890/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2890/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[)]] (Ms Isabelle Poncelet voted as her group did)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2898/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2898/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1521/11) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1521/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u137	Vote on Amendment No 50 of Georges Gilkinet cs on the inscription. (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 50 by Georges Gilkinet cs. (2838/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 51 from Georges Gilkinet cs to chapter I. (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 51 by Georges Gilkinet cs in Chapter I. (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u138	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 52 by Georges Gilkinet cs inserting a title II(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 52 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert Title II(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u139	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 53 from Georges Gilkinet cs to chapter II. (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Georges Gilkinet cs in Chapter II. (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u140	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 54 from Georges Gilkinet cs to Chapter III. (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 54 by Georges Gilkinet cs in Chapter III. (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u141	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 55 from Georges Gilkinet cs to chapter IV. (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 55 by Georges Gilkinet cs in Chapter IV. (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u142	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 56 from Georges Gilkinet cs to chapter V. (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No. 56 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Chapter V. (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u143	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 57 by Georges Gilkinet cs inserting a title III(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 57 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert Title III(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u144	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 58 of Georges Gilkinet cs inserting a chapter I (n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 58 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a Chapter I(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u145	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 59 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 1 (n). (2838/11) Vote on amendment No 59 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 1 (n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u146	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 60 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 35/1(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 60 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/1(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u147	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 61 from Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 2(n). (2838/1) Vote on Amendment No 61 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 2(n). (2838/1) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u148	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 62 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/2(n). (2838/11) Vote on amendment No. 62 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 35/2(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u149	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 63 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 3 (n). (2838/11) Vote on amendment No 63 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 3(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u150	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 64 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 35/3(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 64 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/3(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u151	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 65 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 35/4(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 65 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/4(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u152	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 66 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 4 (n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 66 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 4(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u153	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 67 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 35/5(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 67 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/5(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u154	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 68 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 35/6(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 68 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/6(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u155	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 69 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a chapter II (n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 69 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a Chapter II(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u156	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 70 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 1 (n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 70 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a Section 1 (n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u157	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 71 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 35/7(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 71 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/7(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u158	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 72 from Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 2 (n). (2838/11) Vote on amendment No 72 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 2(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u159	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 73 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/8(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 73 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/8(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u160	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 74 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 3 (n). (2838/11) Vote on amendment No. 74 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 3 (n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can one consider that the result the previous vote is valid for that vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u161	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 75 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/9(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 75 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/9(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u162	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 76 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 35/10(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 76 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/10(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u163	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 77 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 4 (n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 77 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 4(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u164	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 78 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 35/11(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 78 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/11(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u165	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 79 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 35/12(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 79 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/12(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u166	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 80 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a chapter III (n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 80 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a Chapter III(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u167	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 81 from Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 1 (n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 81 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a Section 1 (n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u168	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 82 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/13(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 82 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/13(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u169	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 83 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/14(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 83 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/14(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u170	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 84 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/15(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 84 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/15(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u171	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 85 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/16(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 85 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/16(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u172	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 86 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/17(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 86 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/17(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u173	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 87 from Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 2 (n). (2838/11) Vote on amendment No 87 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert a section 2(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 6) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 88 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/18(n). (2838/11) Vote on amendment No. 88 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 35/18(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 6) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 89 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/19(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 89 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/19(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 6) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 90 by Georges Gilkinet cs inserting a title IV(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 90 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert Title IV(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 6) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 91 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/20(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 91 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/20(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 6) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 92 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/21(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 92 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/21(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 6) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 93 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/22(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 93 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/22(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 6) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 94 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/23(n). (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 94 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 35/23(n). (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 6) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 95 of Georges Gilkinet cs to delete Chapter VI. (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 95 by Georges Gilkinet cs to delete Chapter VI. (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 6) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 96 of Georges Gilkinet cs to delete Article 36. (2838/11) Vote on Amendment No 96 by Georges Gilkinet cs to delete Rule 36. (2838/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u174	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 36 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 36 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u175	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 77 Yes No. [[37]] No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2838/12) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2838/12) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u176	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 75 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2884/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2884/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u177	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[74]] Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1603/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1603/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u178	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[114]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (2933/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (2933/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u179	Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck on Article 2. (2652/9) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (2652/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[27]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck on article 3. (2652/9) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Catherine Fonck to Article 3. (2652/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? (Ja) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Oui)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u180	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Catherine Fonck on Article 3. (2652/9) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Catherine Fonck to Article 3. (2652/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? (Ja) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Oui) (Vote/vote 11) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Veerle Wouters cs on Article 3. (2652/9) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Veerle Wouters cs to Article 3. (2652/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 4 Yes No. 121 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Catherine Fonck to omit Article 4. (2652/9) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Catherine Fonck to delete Article 4. (2652/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 17 by Veerle Wouters cs on Article 4. (2652/9) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Veerle Wouters cs to Article 4. (2652/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 4 Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by André Frédéric on Article 4. (2652/9) Vote on Amendment No 22 by André Frédéric to Article 4. (2652/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Muriel Gerkens cs on article 4. (2652/9) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Muriel Gerkens cs to Article 4. (2652/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[12]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Catherine Fonck on article 4. (2652/9) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Catherine Fonck to Article 4. (2652/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 23 by André Frédéric to omit Article 5. (2652/9) Vote on Amendment No 23 by André Frédéric to delete Article 5. (2652/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[21]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Veerle Wouters cs on Article 5. (2652/9) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Veerle Wouters cs to Article 5. (2652/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 4 Yes No. [[120]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 125 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Alain Mathot and Laurette Onkelinx voted against. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Veerle Wouters cs on Article 5. (2652/9) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Veerle Wouters cs to Article 5. (2652/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u181	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Veerle Wouters cs on Article 5. (2652/9) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Veerle Wouters cs to Article 5. (2652/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u182	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 24 by André Frédéric to insert an article 6(n). (2652/9) Vote on Amendment No 24 by André Frédéric to insert an Article 6(n). (2652/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes [[27]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u183	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[84]] Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2652/10) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2652/10) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u184	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 79 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 2856/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 2856/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? (Non?) Mrs Almaci voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u185	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 79 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1885/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1885/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u186	In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole of the proposal of special law must be adopted by a majority in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each language group are present and that the total of the yes votes in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole proposal for a special law must be adopted by a majority of the votes cast in each language group, provided that a majority of the members of each group are present and that the total of the positive votes cast in both language groups reach two thirds of the votes cast. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) F I'll see you later. N Yes 52 126 74 Yes Non 1 1 0 No. Abstensions 0 0 0 Abstentions Total 53 127 74 Total The majority of the votes cast in each language group have been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority has been achieved. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of special law. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft. (2908/4) The majority of votes in each group shall be cast. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall be cast. Accordingly, the House adopts the special bill. It will be forwarded as a bill to the Senate. (2908/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-15-54-plenair-ip219x.u187	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 22 March 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, March 22, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 22 March 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 22 March 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
