ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u1	Minister, my question dates back to October 12. It was postponed, not because of the minister – I want to make it clear, but because Mr.Maingain could not be present. In the meantime, the duo has become a trio, since Mr Crusnière has attached a question to ours. Minister, according to a report published on 10 October by Human Rights Watch (HRW), the Rwandan army is suspected of using torture to extract confessions from illegally detained suspects. This 102-page report is unambiguously entitled: "We will oblige to confess: torture and illegal military detention in Rwanda". The organization claims to have documented 104 cases of persons unlawfully detained in Rwandan army detention centres between 2010 and 2016, a majority of whom are victims of torture: beatings, electric shocks, mock executions. The report reproduces excerpts from the testimonies of former prisoners, describing the abuses suffered: electric shocks, bags of stones attached to the testicles, prisoners hanged by the feet and beaten with iron bars, etc. Minister, are you in possession of information consistent with the Human Rights Watch report? What would be the means of pressure or even sanctions that Belgium and the European Union could use to encourage the Rwandan authorities to respect the democratic rights of its opponents? Has the Organization of African Unity (OAU) ever responded to these allegations of torture? I would add that, since the tabling of my question, the presidency of the OAU has been exercised by the President of Rwanda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u2	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation in Rwanda and more specifically about the issue of impunity for perpetrators of torture. After Human Rights Watch opened the alarm bell for the first time, it is the turn of the United Nations Committee for the Prevention of Torture to be very concerned about the situation in Rwanda. According to the UN Committee for the Prevention of Torture, in addition to legislation that does not comply with international standards – torture is now punishable from six months to two years in prison – there is a clear lack of government will to stop the phenomenon. Indeed, several amnesties exist in order to allow the perpetrators of torture to escape any punishment. The report of the United Nations Committee for the Prevention of Torture also calls on Rwanda to cease detention and prosecution of opponents, journalists and activists. According to the Committee, 29 persons alleged to have been tortured between 2010 and 2016 during their trial. These complaints have generally remained unanswered, with judges still too often refusing to take medical examinations into account. Finally, the Committee is also concerned about credible evidence that 37 summary executions were carried out between July 2016 and March 2017. Minister, has this issue been addressed in bilateral relations between our two countries? Was the issue also addressed at the summit between the European Union and the African Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the recent Human Rights Watch reports are well known and present a disturbing image. While our Embassy is not in a position to investigate these allegations, Rwanda is nevertheless a party to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, as well as to the Optional Protocol, and is therefore required to report periodically to the Committee on Torture. The European Union and our country regularly address the human rights situation, the political space and the situation in detention centres with the Rwandan authorities, particularly in the context of "Article 8" dialogues held twice a year. The last one was held in July 2017. We are doing the same in our ongoing bilateral dialogue. With regard to the suspension of the visit of the delegation of the United Nations Subcommittee on Prevention of Torture, which Rwanda was obliged to accept as a party to the Optional Protocol, such suspension was quite rare. The delegation should support the Rwandan authorities in the establishment of the national mechanism for the prevention of torture, whose establishment our country supports through funding from the NGO of the Association for the Prevention of Torture. I hope that the Rwandan authorities will return to their position. It appears that Rwanda is planning to implement the national mechanism for the prevention of torture by the spring of this year. A draft legislation amending the statute of the National Human Rights Commission has been introduced to that effect. Last month, the Minister of Justice of Rwanda held a meeting in Geneva with the experts of the Committee against Torture in connection with the submission of a second periodic report by Rwanda. We see these exchanges as a relatively positive element, even if we remain attentive to the response of the Rwandan authorities to the urgent recommendations made by the Committee. We are also following the implementation of other recommendations accepted in the framework of the Universal Periodic Review by supporting both the authorities and civil society organisations. The European Union delegation in Kigali requested to be able to meet with the Rwandan authorities following various arrests and arrests of members of the political opposition. We continue to follow closely this situation, and in particular the case of Diane Rwigara, her mother and her sister, especially since the latter two have dual Belgian and Rwandan nationality. Our embassy in Kigali attends the trial hearings and regularly visits Mrs. Rwigara's mother in prison. We will address this issue at the next session of the high-level bilateral political dialogue, which is expected to take place in the near future. These developments obviously undermine Rwanda's image. We will continue our ongoing dialogue, as I mentioned. I am in contact with my colleague Alexander De Croo in order to better address these concerns in our cooperation relationship with Rwanda. It is obvious that we are paying attention to bilateral work with the Rwandan authorities, through the European Union or through United Nations bodies. We are also very careful to keep in touch with civil society organisations, which can have a significant impact on developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u4	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answer. It is a pity that Rwanda is there as it begins to turn economically. Perhaps we can influence it further through the OAU presidency provided by the President of Rwanda, because he will certainly be sensitive to the "public relations" side of this international function. In any case, this cannot happen again. Without being responsible, we must pay particular attention to this situation, more than other countries in the European Union. Indeed, we have been living together with Rwanda for fifty years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u5	Minister, thank you for your full answer. These reports are no longer worrying, but we know that the situation is, unfortunately, not new. For a long time now, we have received such reports and have been sounding alarms about the situation in Rwanda! Of course, I agree with you that it is important to maintain a permanent dialogue. That is undeniable, for there is no point in cutting themselves off from these countries. However, I am not as optimistic as my colleague. It is all the more disturbing now that the presidency of the African Union is occupied by Mr. Kagamé. I don't think that's going to change the deal in the country. As part of the ongoing dialogue that you are seeking, we must continue to put pressure on the prompt implementation of the recommendations made following all these reports and controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u6	Madam President, Minister, since Monday 8 January, Tunisia has been shaken by new riots. The Tunisian economic situation pushes the government of Prime Minister Youssef Chaheb to a austerity plan in order to reduce Tunisian debt to 60% of GDP. Minister, has the Belgian and European contribution increased over the last three years? Following the attacks of 2015, the tourism industry was severely affected. Can we once again advise Europeans and Belgians in particular to take advantage of Tunisian seaside facilities, since tourism is an important foreign exchange contribution to Tunisia? Proximity to Libya imposes heavy security investments on Tunisia. Could we consider a comprehensive plan to help secure its borders? More broadly, what about the human rights situation in Tunisia today? What attitude could the European Union take to help this country to combat massive youth unemployment, the high rate of inflation and the enormous devalorisation of the Tunisian currency?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u7	Madam President, I will answer all the questions raised by Mrs Grovonius and Mr Flahaux. As regards ALECA, an impact assessment of the 1995 European Union-Tunisia Association Agreement was requested by Tunisian civil society. Tunisia's new chief negotiator, Hichem Ben Ahmed, Secretary of State to the Ministry of Trade, reported on 26 October 2017 at the meeting of the EU Trade Councils that the expert report would be available within six months. Tunisia is a strategic partner in the region. Belgium supports the negotiations for a comprehensive free trade agreement with Tunisia. They are based on an asymmetrical and assistance approach in order to take account of the difference in the level of development. Belgium supports a high level of ambition to achieve a quality result that takes into account the interests of the different parties. Tunisia is the first country with which the European Union concluded an association agreement in 1995. Since 2012, there has been a privileged partnership concluded after the beginning of what has been called the "Arab Spring". Tunisia is an exception in the region for its exemplary character in its transition – even though there are frequent sombresauts. This allows it to benefit from more for more, i.e. stronger support for the countries that are making the most progress in reforms towards democracy and the rule of law. However, as Mrs Grovonius points out in her question, the challenges remain many: socio-economic (youth unemployment in particular, regional disparities), security (traffic, radicalisation, etc.).), all coupled with the migration dimension. Since the Tunisian revolution, the European Union has mobilised all its political, commercial, technical and financial instruments, combining donations (more than €1.2 billion), macro-financial assistance (€800 million) and loans including those of the European Investment Bank (€1.5 billion). The support provided to Tunisia from 2011 to 2016 amounts to approximately €3.5 billion. At the Association Council last May, the European Union renewed its commitment to support the country, a commitment that was further stressed at the Foreign Affairs Council two weeks ago, where several Member States, including Belgium, recalled Tunisia's need for European support. At the bilateral level, Tunisia is the subject of a comprehensive approach combining the efforts of several of our departments, whether it is the Defense of which Tunisia is the second partner on the African continent, the Finances with a partial conversion of Tunisian debt, the Federal Police active in the reform of the security sector, the Office of Foreigners with the strengthening of the professional integration of Tunisian youth through apprenticeships and professional internships in Belgium and Tunisia, or the Department of Foreign Affairs through the support of projects promoting the empowerment of women. As far as the security situation is concerned, it has improved significantly since 2015, which has enabled Belgium and other partners to review their travel notices – you will agree, Mr Flahaux. This positive development has been made possible, in particular, by the efforts undertaken by Tunisia itself. These efforts are accompanied by the G7+6 countries of which Belgium is a member, through various working groups, including one on border security. I hope that we can continue to work in this direction. I share your feeling that the tourism situation is important for the development of the country. With regard to human rights, he welcomed the progress made in recent years, particularly recent advances in the field of women's rights. The Tunisian government is trying to formulate adequate responses to a ubiquitous terrorist threat. We are very careful that this fight against terrorism should not be at the expense of respect for and protection of human rights. Freedom of expression and press are generally respected. I believe that we will continue to move forward in this direction. During my recent visits to Morocco and Algeria, I have, each time, raised the interest that there would be – but we are not yet at this stage – to develop real trade relations between the Maghreb countries, at least between Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. But you know the borders are closed for now. The Benelux could perhaps give some examples of concrete collaboration to at least start an approach. But, I repeat, we're not there yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answer. Tunisia is indeed a country that is close to my heart. Indeed, even though he has never been one of our colonies, he is the most prominent Arab country in the fight for the liberation of women. It was in the current residence of the Belgian ambassador in Tunis that Mr Bourguiba gave the code that allowed the release of the woman. It is the first Arab country to have taken such action in this field. Tunisia must be for us a model of cooperation and evolution of society. There will still be fighting, especially for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT) people, but it is necessary to act gently in order not to provoke a sharp reaction, the Islamists also existing in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u9	The first question by Mr Luykx, No. 22244 has been revoked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u10	Madam President, the question about the situation in Ireland has indeed become obsolete. Mr Minister, after a difficult first phase, stage II of the Brexit negotiations has finally been moved. That is also high time, because the European Union and the United Kingdom must reach a final agreement on the withdrawal by the end of 2018 in order to complete the ratification process in good time before 29 March 2019. Firstly, it is often reported in the press that the hard Brexiters are losing out in the UK and that the call for a second referendum on British EU membership is increasing. Thus the image is created that the Brexit could still be reversed. However, in this Parliament's Advisory Committee on European Affairs, Ambassador Alison Rose denied this. Other sounds can be heard by Mr Van Rompuy and Mr Juncker, among others. The latter already left a balloon on about the reversibility of the Brexit. Do you consider the option of a second referendum and a possible non-brexit realistic? Secondly, we have heard that Boris Johnson, brexiate in heart and soul, wants to build a bridge between the UK and Europe, not symbolically but physically. Although further cooperation is essential and crucial for both the UK and Flanders, this proposal for a physical connection feels somewhat contradictory. While everyone talks about cutting the tires, a bridge would be put in the scaffolding here. The French President, Mr Macron, would welcome this proposal. What do you think of this, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u11	Madam President, the questions are already a little out of date. The first phase of the Brexit negotiations has been completed or, according to the Council, sufficient progress has been made in three main areas: the rights of EU citizens in the UK, the Irish border issue and the invoice. We have now entered the second phase of the negotiations. This phase is more important for our economic interests. There is now a possibility that the British will try, in the forthcoming negotiations, to break up the European Member States, each with their different interests. Hence my question: what position will our country take during the second phase of the negotiations and what priorities will the government set?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u12	Madam President, you are not entirely wrong. I asked my question on December 4. Almost all the obstacles have finally been removed, at least in principle, whether this is the problem with South Ireland, the problem of the amount of divorce and what concerns European citizens in Britain. I may not have followed, but in my question there was also the item on Spain and Gibraltar. It does not seem to me that a solution has already been reached on this subject. That was part of my questions. However, British public opinion is beginning to move and evolve, perhaps not until Brexit is called into question or a new referendum, but clearly, according to all the tables that are coming out at the moment, Brexit will cause a decline in GDP or a hindrance to its growth, which is quite logical, but the British did not perceive it at the time of the referendum.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for two of the most important dossiers in the first phase, there was almost agreement on the text of the progress report on Monday, 4 December 2017. The third dossier, the Irish border issue, was more difficult. It was not until Friday 8 December 2017 that an agreement was reached between the UK and the Commission. As far as the financial scheme is concerned, the UK is prepared to comply with all obligations in accordance with the Commission's calculation methodology. For citizens' rights, a whole series of agreements were made on what rights will be protected and how to do so. For Northern Ireland, a 3-step approach is now proposed to preserve north-south cooperation on the island and avoid a hard border. First and foremost, the UK hopes to achieve these goals through an agreement on the future relationship with the European Union. If this does not work, the UK itself will make proposals for the situation on the Irish island. If no agreement is reached, the UK is committed to fully aligning itself with the rules of the internal market and the customs union which support North-South cooperation, the 1-Island economy and the Good Friday Agreement. It's a little more complex than the other two files. On the one hand, this seems rather far-reaching, on the other hand, it is a political assessment of what complete assimilation is right and what rules it is about. The Northern Irish executive and the Northern Irish Parliament will in any case have a right to decide on possible divergent rules between Northern Ireland and the UK. It will therefore be in the second phase, Mr Flahaux, that we will know if a hard border can be avoided. With regard to Gibraltar, the guideline of the European Council clearly states that no agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union will apply there without agreement between Spain and the United Kingdom. The Treaty therefore contains a preliminary bilateral element between the United Kingdom and the EU. The European Commission has recommended to the European Council that, on the basis of this report, sufficient progress should be made and that the second phase of the negotiations should be completed. Several elements from the above three priority areas, including the Irish border issue, and from other parts of the first phase will be further developed in the second phase of the negotiations. Following the adoption by the European Council of 15 December 2017 of sufficient progress to move to the second phase of negotiations on the conclusion of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union, the transition phase and the future EU-UK framework, the General Affairs Council, with 27 members, adopted on 29 January the negotiating mandate for the negotiation of the transition period. This mandate builds on the previous mandate of May 2017. Additional guidelines, based on the guidelines of 29 April 2017, are normally adopted at the European Council of 22 and 23 March for the negotiations on preparations for the future EU-UK framework. Mr Luyckx, in reply to your question on a second referendum and a possible non-brexit, I can only say that it is up to the British people to decide whether or not there will be a second referendum. I do not want to venture to predict whether there will eventually be a non-brexit. On the basis of good governance, we are already preparing the Belgian position. Our country advocates a comprehensive trade agreement with trade facilitation and broad cooperation in several areas for the future EU-UK framework. I have read a number of comments in the United Kingdom, but for the time being we are waiting for the first referendum to be properly implemented. We are also waiting for a clarification from London on the context of our possible new relationship with the UK. I have also read that Boris Johnson advocates building a bridge between the United Kingdom and Europe. Building bridges between people and countries is always a good idea, but we have not yet been able to take note of further details of our British colleague's plan. There are a number of construction companies in our country that are very open to such a new construction, but I have not yet received any clarification. I would like to say a few words about our position, Mr Van Peteghem. First of all, as in the first phase, we are trying to work on the basis of unanimity. That was not so difficult in the first phase, everyone supported Ireland so it was very easy to ask for the correct handling of the Irish dossier. In the second phase, however, there are different interests among the Member States. Belgium, together with the other Benelux countries, and also yesterday during a meeting with my Slovenian colleague, is in favour of continuing to work on the basis of unanimity. However, even with a unanimous approach, we must defend our own interests. That is why a procedure has been initiated with the various regions and also at federal level through the Brexit High Level Group under the chairmanship of Paul Buysse, which should give ideas to the Minister of Economy. I also had contact with many managers, yesterday I was still visiting the VBO, not only but mainly for the Brexit. Once the Regions, business organisations and sectors have been consulted, we will draw up a real list of priorities as soon as possible. This will enable us to defend our interests well with Michel Barnier and with our fellow Members, so that all other 26 Member States go in the same direction during the negotiations with the UK. I think it should be possible to reach an agreement. You know, however, that we also carry out a number of analyses within the Commission in case of failure. We will do everything we can to make this a success. Our interest is very great: Britain is Belgium's fourth largest trading partner and the second largest in Flanders. Yesterday I also said that it might be the largest one for Zeebrugge. The closer to the sea, the greater the importance of a correct relationship in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u14	Thank you for your answers. As far as we're concerned, you're also a bridge builder. Indeed, in the debate on the Brexit, I think it is wise not to make too harsh statements about the possibility of (in) reversibility. I share your view that the process that started there should also be settled there. It is up to us to deal with this new situation as quickly as possible and pragmatically.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u15	Thank you for your explanation, Minister. I believe that it is indeed important to continue to pursue unanimity at European level. We must not forget our own interests. The Buyse report already gives good indications of how we can deal with this. I do hope that we can move forward in this way and not end up with a no-deal, but that we can continue to represent and defend our economic interests in the transition period and beyond.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u16	Minister, thank you for that detailed answer. You mentioned the bridge, but I think that in any case, whatever the future of Britain in or next to the European Union, we will remain very close neighbours, with extremely tight agreements; more than with Norway, however, with which we also have close ties.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament 22289 by Mrs Grovonius has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u18	Madam President, Minister, in Haiti, the Senate is currently working on legislation to criminalize homosexuality. Sentences of imprisonment are envisaged. The country has never recognized same-sex marriage. He's even criminalizing him. If the law passed in the Senate this summer were finally passed, homosexuals would risk three years in prison. A vast majority of the population disapproves of homosexuality, systematically evoking conservative religious values. The few homosexuals who dare to speak seek to alert the United Nations. However, in accordance with the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations urges its member States to eliminate any discrimination, de facto or de jure, based on sexual orientation or preference. Among its member countries, 56 argue that the decriminalization of homosexuality could lead to extreme phenomena such as bestiality, incest or zoophilia. That's the state of the world. Mr. Minister, I know how much you are involved in advancing human rights around the world, including for people in the LGBTQI community, through the implementation of our resolution on the decriminalization of homosexuality in the world. May I humbly ask you to intervene in this matter with the Haitian authorities? Moreover, we know that Haiti is exsangued and survives thanks to international assistance. Could you use all the useful means of pressure so that the Haitian authorities stop their homophobic policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u19	Mr Flahaux, thank you for the credit you give to our diplomatic action in support of human rights around the world. We never fail to address the issue of human rights in bilateral meetings at different levels. We will continue to do so also in the future with the Haitian authorities. I think it is also, as I have already mentioned in this committee, a role for parliamentary diplomacy to come back to this issue on a regular basis. The European Union and Belgium remain concerned about this bill that threatens the rights of the LGBTI community in Haiti. According to our latest information, the text that remains at the bill stage is still pending in the House of Haitian Representatives and has not been adopted. Nevertheless, the European Union has already taken steps with the Haitian parliament to draw attention to these concerns. These steps take place in a discreet manner, in particular at the request of the associations concerned, in order to avoid excessive exploitation of this issue. The Embassy of Belgium in Havana, responsible for Haiti, closely monitors the situation in cooperation with other European partners. Our diplomatic posts and my administration maintain frequent contacts with human rights actors, including NGOs. They regularly receive LGBTI human rights defenders. I would also like to point out that during the mission of the Minister-President of the French Community, Mr.Demotte, to Port-au-Prince in November 2017, the human rights situation in Haiti was also part of the discussions. In addition to bilateral contacts, our country plays a key role in the various international forums for the protection of human rights and LGBTI people. During the universal periodic review of Haiti in November 2016, Belgium explicitly raised the issue of impunity and violence against LGBTI people. With regard to the protection of these people in general, we have supported not only the Human Rights Council but also the 3rd and 5th Committees of the United Nations General Assembly, in 2016, the creation of the mandate of the independent expert of the United Nations sexual orientation and gender identity, which makes visits to countries where the situation of LGBTI people is problematic and tries to engage in a process of dialogue with the authorities concerned. Our country is also very involved in the Equal Rights Coalition, a set of more than 30 countries that lobby internationally for respect for the human rights of LGBTI people. Within the European Union, Belgium has actively participated in the development of the guidelines to promote and ensure respect for all the fundamental rights of LGBTI people, which were adopted in June 2013. In May 2017, Brussels hosted the fifth edition of the IDAHO Forum, focusing on the human rights of LGBTI people. As far as your question of the use of financial aid as a means of pressure is concerned, it falls mainly within the remit of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation. In any event, Belgium will always give priority to dialogue before using similar means of pressure. Moreover, Haiti is not currently a partner country for Belgian cooperation and you know that there are still major solidarity operations that are organized in Belgium towards Haiti. I have had the opportunity to participate again recently in one of these actions to help the population in the wake of the disasters that took place in this country. I therefore believe that above all we must continue to work bilaterally as on the international scene in an attempt to change the situation. But – as I said at the beginning – in collaboration with local civil society, which often calls for this to be done in a rather discreet way to avoid a number of problems that may occur in the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u20	Thank you once again, Minister, for your thorough and thorough answer. I would simply add that Haiti is to my knowledge one of the five poorest countries in the world. And often, the more a country develops economically and socially, the more its population's opinion of LGBTQI people "opens up," I dare say. I therefore believe that it is necessary to continue the development aid of Haiti and that being, Haiti, like other countries of Central and South America is also worked by the evangelist churches which often have an extremely "coincerated" attitude on this problem of homosexuality. I may have used words that may seem a little tangential today, but you understand me!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u21	Madam President, Minister, the NGO Human Rights Watch (HRW) accuses, in a report, senior officers of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) of having clandestinely recruited at least 200 former M23 rebels. These rebels have been exiled to Uganda and Rwanda since their defeat in eastern DRC in November 2013. They were recruited to stifle the anti-Kabila demonstrations of December 2016, and to protect the head of state whose mandate was due to expire. This mandate has expired since then. The repression which, according to the NGO, cost the lives of at least 62 people between December 19 and 22, 2016, was therefore premeditated. To write this report, entitled Special Mission, HRW reports that it worked eleven months in four countries (Rwanda, Uganda, Belgium and DRC) and conducted more than 120 interviews, 21 of which were with former combatants, commanders and political leaders of the M23. Minister, have you been able to read this report? Do you think this NGO's accusations are plausible in the current climate in the DRC? What is the official reaction of the DRC to this report? In the event that the information in this report is confirmed, even partially, what steps could the international community take to retaliate against the Congolese authorities? Given the extremely difficult and sensitive situation today, I would add that I would understand very well if your answer were even more diplomatic than usual. Madam President, I come to my second question on the subject. Minister, you received your Congolese counterpart Léonard She Okitundu on 28 November during your visit to Abidjan on the sidelines of the preparations for the summit between the African Union and the European Union. Could you, during this interview, refer to the electoral crisis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo? I guess so. My question is dated 4 December. Have you received a draft electoral calendar from the Minister? In the meantime, I learned that it was. What are the other issues raised at this meeting? How could you describe the evolution of our relations with the DRC? What I said about my first question is even more true about the second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u22	Minister, I have read your response today to the complex relationship with Congo. In the light of the events that have dragged on since 2016, but also in the light of the decisions you made recently with this government, it is difficult to do anything right. As you rightly say, any ruling or any initiative will lead to a certain escalation. The question is indeed whether there is a way out of this? Should the folds be smoothed bilaterally? Is this to be done from an international perspective? In the meantime, many unilateral measures have been announced. The Schengen House would be closed. Enabel's gonna be in the crosshairs. The number of flights between Kinshasa and Brussels is reduced. The Consulate General in Lubumbashi should close. My question dates back to 19 January, where the situation changes weekly. Do you see a way in which we can do something in a positive sense and enforce something in Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u23	Madam President, Minister, I have three questions about the DRC because it is a subject that is evolving from day to day, or even from hour to hour, so that we tend to want to ask you about it. It is important that we can do so in a debate like this. The first question I addressed to you followed the demonstrations that took place in January and that had been organized at the initiative of Catholics in order to call for the implementation of the agreement of the Saint-Sylvestre, which, I would remind you, proposed a framework for the organization of a consensus vote. These demonstrations were banned by the government, as were all the previous ones. Unfortunately, they were severely repressed by law enforcement officials who did not hesitate to shoot demonstrators with live bullets and to use tear gas. According to MONUSCO, the death toll is heavy: 6 dead, 49 injured and more than 100 persons reportedly missing. We have already had an opportunity to take stock of the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo at our meeting here in camera. You put this item on the agenda of the Council of Foreign Ministers on 22 January. You also announced your intention to review bilateral cooperation with the DRC. Minister, can you give us a debriefing on the content of the discussions that took place at the meeting of European Foreign Ministers? Have other European countries indicated their willingness to follow the Belgian initiative to review bilateral aid with the DRC by re-adjusting it towards aid to the population? Have any initiatives been taken at European level at this meeting? Could a unanimous position have been taken? You mentioned, at the meeting in camera, an invitation to the Congolese authorities to discuss this bilateral cooperation between Belgium and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Have you had any information or news about this? I imagine that in the current context the answer will be negative, but it is worth taking stock of this issue. My second question is related to the closure of the Schengen House and the desire to immediately cease Enabel's activities in the DRC. This decision follows our government's announcement to review bilateral cooperation between Belgium and the DRC. I obviously support this proposal. Mr Minister, what is Belgium's position following the Kinshasa decision to stop Enabel's activities and dismantle the so-called "Schengen House" consular system? Have you been officially informed of this decision? Have any contacts with the Congolese authorities been made? What would be the impact on our on-site services, including consular services? Will the subject be on the agenda at European level to take stock of the situation? My third question concerns the latest decisions taken by the Congolese government once again against Belgium, which is evidence of a certain escalation. We learned this Monday that while Brussels Airlines was defending Lufthansa's added value from its connections with Africa, Kinshasa decided to reduce the frequency of flights. There is a reduction of seven to four flights. This latest decision by the Kinshasa government shows that relations are increasingly tense between our two countries. With regard to the Congolese authorities' decision concerning Brussels Airlines, Minister, have you undertaken diplomatic contacts? Have you received more explanation as to the reasons for such a decision? Do you think that a path of de-escalation in our relations with the Congo is possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u24	Minister, we too would like to see an up-to-date state of affairs and a few comments on recent events. It is known that Belgium wants to refocus part of its development cooperation. Instead of direct aid, the decision has been taken to provide assistance to indirect players through civil society organisations close to the Congolese people. In response, or almost as a reprisal, the Congo is targeting Enabel as well as the Schengen House, the Consulate General in Lubumbashi should possibly close. Do you have any news on this recently? How do you estimate the current situation? What are the possibilities of achieving a detente without abandoning our policy objectives? What is the impact of this situation on the European Union? What Belgium is doing in Congo, of course, also has a European dimension. There is now a new low in the relationship between our country and Congo, that is clear. However, I would ask you to continue the dialogue as closely as possible. What channels does this dialogue take at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u25	Minister, the situation has already been well outlined by colleagues. The situation is particularly worrying for the population. It's not just humanitarian. Manifestations are violently crushed. The Belgian government made the right decision to refocus Belgian development aid. The Congolese Government's counter-reaction to this was excessive. My questions are as follows. How do other European countries react to what is happening at Belgian level? Are they following the reorientation of our development aid? How do they react to the closure of the Schengen House in Kinshasa and to the potential closure of the Enabel office? Can we avoid the Congolese government's attempt to bilateralise the conflict between Belgium and Congo by separating a position at European level from our partners? That is the most important question I would like to ask. How can we ensure that the Congolese people are not the victims of this diplomatic conflict between Belgium and Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u26	Madam President, Minister, since 25 January last, the announcements of "retaliatory measures" by the Congolese government against Belgium have increased. Subsequently, the authorities of the Democratic Republic of the Congo called for the end of Enabel's activities in the Congo and the dismantling of the Schengen House in Kinshasa. They then demanded the reduction of Brussels Airlines' flight frequencies between Brussels and Kinshasa, from seven to four per week. Finally, they asked us to close our Consulate General in Lubumbashi, the Congo announcing in parallel the closure of its Consulate in Antwerp. Although it seems that, in some cases, media announcements have not yet materialized in official diplomatic efforts, Kabila's objectives seem quite clear: to try to isolate us; to try to punish us for the actions and condemnations we have rightly expressed on the situation in the Congo; to try to weaken our country in the European Union and in the international community, concerned about the Congolese crisis. They seek, by intimidating us and threatening us, to push us back. In order to do this, Mr Kabila does not hesitate to punish his own population, to shoot himself in the foot. It is the latter who will suffer from the brutal halt of Belgian cooperation; it is its people who must now cross the river to pick up visas in Congo-Brazzaville; it is it that will be affected by the decrease in the frequency of flights of planes carrying Congolese. This proves once again the extent to which this regime has taken care of its citizens. He attacks them every day. We receive information from time to time about people who are victims of this regime, ready to do anything in order to remain in power and to exploit the Congolese population and wealth, to the benefit of a very small group of people. Mr Minister, what exactly is the situation of our cooperation, of this Schengen House, of Brussels Airlines, of the Consulate in Lubumbashi? What are the consequences of all this news for the Congolese population and for Belgium? What actions are you planning to take at European and bilateral level to prevent this umpteenth crisis from being paid for by the Congolese? What were the results of the Foreign Affairs Council at European level on 22 January? Finally, I will add a question that was not in my written text. We discussed measures against Congolese nationals who are close to the government or are part of the government and who claim to be resident in Belgium, while residing in the Congo, and persons who have residence permits here, while they are detrimental to the interests of our bilateral relations. Could you follow up on this question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the situation after our sitting behind closed doors. I was also briefed on your hearing with representatives of civil society and the European Union. I shall first answer the questions on the political situation and then on the bilateral relationship. The end of 2017 and 21 January 2018 were marked by violent repression while the Catholic Church had called for peaceful demonstrations in the country. Congolese law enforcement officials used tear gas and live gunfire in churches and violently prevented demonstrations. About ten people lost their lives there. Together with our international partners, we insisted that this should not happen again. At the last Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union, I said that the brutality of Congolese security forces must be condemned as well as the limitations of individual freedoms. This debate should also be held within the United Nations in Geneva and New York. The issue of the role of MONUSCO in the protection of urban populations, which is increasingly affected by violence and repression, is even more important. One of my other messages at the last Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union on 22 January 2018 was that our goal should remain the organisation of credible elections in the DRC in 2018. We must continue to carry this message in our dialogue with the Congolese authorities, stating that we are ready to contribute if conditions are met. It must be noted, however, that doubts remain about the willingness to organize these elections in a calm climate. As often in the past, this leads to tensions in our bilateral relations, which I will return to. In response to my intervention at the Foreign Affairs Council on 22 January, the High Representative of the European Union, Mrs Mogherini, proposed to discuss the situation in the DRC in more depth at a forthcoming Foreign Affairs Council. As you say, security in the east has not improved. In North Kivu, the Kivu has greatly increased its presence. There are heavy offensives in progress. In the almost daily attacks, the Congolese army pays a high price. In these circumstances, it is difficult to imagine credible and peaceful elections in the east, in Kasai and Kinshasa, where peaceful demonstrations are still prohibited. Like you, we have read Human Rights Watch's report on the recruitment by senior security forces officers in the DRC of more than 200 M23 rebel fighters or former combatants from neighbouring countries to suppress demonstrations in December 2016. We have not yet been able to carry out a detailed review, but I believe it is important for the Joint United Nations Office and the United Nations expert group to address this issue. It is through these procedures that we can make progress in investigations. Lastly, the situation of the Congolese people was becoming increasingly worrying. The growing humanitarian needs, as we explained in the closed session, are worrying. That is why we must show our solidarity with the Congolese people through concrete actions. That is what we tried to do at the end of our discussions at our meeting in camera. I'm going to bilateral relations. As I announced earlier at a meeting behind closed doors here in Parliament with my colleague in development cooperation, Belgium decided on 10 January to refocus one quarter of the available resources from governmental cooperation to humanitarian aid, cooperation with social associations and to universities and scientific institutions. This reorientation was intended to better respond to the very high humanitarian needs, the difficult domestic political context and the problems of governance. The other current programmes worth EUR 70 million are being implemented further. It's important to repeat that. Through a verbal note and a press release, we heard that the Congolese government wanted to put an end to the activities of the Belgian development agency Enabel and the Schengen house in the capital Kinshasa. This was proposed as a rhetorical measure. In the uncertainty that prevailed as a result of this announcement and the related oral clarifications, the Schengen House in Kinshasa had to suspend its activities. On Friday, 2 February, in a joint statement by all the Member States of the European Union with Norway, it was stated that the Schengen House is an instrument for the implementation of the European Union's common visa policy, designed to facilitate the processing of visa applications for the States parties to the Schengen Treaty. The 18 States participating in Schengen Kinshasa's consular arrangements consider it important to preserve this form of local consular cooperation in order to ensure the continuity and quality of visa services for Congolese citizens. As such, they obviously remain open to dialogue. All of them unanimously confirmed this. I would like to stress the excellent cooperation with our European partners, both in Kinshasa and in the capitals. I will have the opportunity to see in a few weeks, specifically and bilaterally, my French colleague, Mr Jean-Yves Le Drian, and then the High Representative of the European Union, Mrs Federica Mogherini. It will be an opportunity to welcome this solidarity, but above all to convey together messages about the DRC, where we are campaigning for credible elections and the opening of the political space. One doesn't go without the other. As regards the decision to suspend the activities of the Belgian Cooperation Agency, the European Union stressed the importance of the complementarity of its actions with those of the Member States in favour of the development of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its population. According to the European Union, restrictions on one of the Member States may affect the collective effort for the benefit of the Congolese. On Monday, 5 February, we learned that a reduction in the number of flights by Brussels Airlines, from seven to four flights a week from 5 February, had been announced by the DRC authorities at SN Brussels Airlines in Kinshasa. Of course, our diplomatic representations are at the disposal of SN Brussels Airlines officials to redirect these flights to other destinations, and in the first place to Brazzaville. On Tuesday, 6 February, the Congolese authorities informed our embassy in Kinshasa by note verbale of the closure of the Consulate General of Belgium in Lubumbashi, following the decision of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to close its Consulate General in Antwerp. At the same time, another note verbale called for the withdrawal of diplomatic protection from the building housing the Schengen House. According to the terms of the note verbale, this withdrawal would imply the cessation of the activities of this consular mechanism within 15 days of the note, dated 5 February 2018. Our country regrets this situation. Unfortunately, these announcements risk first and foremost meeting the Congolese people again and seem to distract attention from the problems of domestic politics. The recent repression against churchgoers on 31 December 2017 and 21 January 2018 and President Kabila's press conference show that there is mainly a problem of political space to organise credible elections. There is a great international consensus on this. I closely monitor this situation through my employees, my administration and the embassy on the ground, in close contact with our international partners. I myself had a number of telephone contacts with the Congolese authorities, including my colleague Léonard She Okitundu, whom I met in Abidjan on 28 November and who then responded to my invitation to have talks in Brussels. We sent teams from my department and Cooperation to Kinshasa in January to relaunch contacts on bilateral relations. Unfortunately, our representatives have not been able to have much contact with the authorities in Kinshasa. Since then, I have had my colleague Léonard She Okitundu on the phone last Friday to confirm to him that we were available for a dialogue on bilateral relations, whether in Brussels or Kinshasa – his preference being Kinshasa. We confirmed this by note verbale, stating that a delegation that could be composed of representatives of the Prime Minister, Foreign Affairs, Cooperation and Defence was available to resume discussions on our bilateral relations. Belgium is trying not to throw oil on the fire and, together with the EU, has highlighted the potential consequences of the Congolese decisions which threaten not only the activities of the Schengen House but also of the Enabel Agency. The work of the agency is of considerable and direct benefit to the Congolese population, particularly in the fields of education, health and agriculture. Our ambassador is currently in our country. We are considering the next steps. In the coming days, we will discuss our attitude within the government. I am convinced that the current tensions with the Democratic Republic of the Congo are primarily related to the country's deep political crisis. It is to the resolution of this crisis that Belgium – together with its European, regional and international partners – wishes to contribute. At the close of the Schengen House and Enabel there was a clear solidarity response from the whole of the EU and Norway on Friday, not only from the countries participating in the Schengen House. EU partners have told us that these measures are not proportionate and are not such as to regain the necessary confidence. We also wish to continue the discussion with the region. I have now asked my special envoy to undertake a mission in the region to see which partnerships are possible and can be deepened. With regard to all the questions raised at our meeting in camera, we have obviously made progress in all the directions mentioned, in particular on Mr Dallemagne's question concerning the situation of a number of officials who regularly stay in Belgium. The questions have been asked and collaboration is under way with the Minister of the Interior, first of all, but also the Ministers of Finance and Social Affairs, to verify the exact situation. We will have an opportunity to come back to this issue. In conclusion, I would say that we remain particularly concerned about the situation and maintain our approach, in close cooperation with our European and international partners. We also maintain our commitment to political dialogue with the DRC, in order to review all areas of bilateral relations and, as I said, and this has been confirmed to my colleague, Léonard She Okitundu Lundula, development cooperation, consular issues, security, the political context; everything can be mentioned. We reiterate our readiness to welcome the Ministers responsible for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation for political contacts here in Brussels in this spirit, probably after preparatory meetings in Kinshasa. Belgium, as I said, is therefore prepared to send a delegation to the DRC to carry out this preparatory work. Our intention, in the days and weeks ahead, is, of course, to work, as we have been doing since the beginning, within the framework of the European Union and the international bodies, in which we have a number of partners in order to continue trying to achieve the organisation, I repeat, of "credible" elections, but in a sufficiently open climate, allowing everyone to participate in the political debate on 23 December this year. We must continue to take that date as the reference date, and try to ensure that this commitment made by the Congolese authorities can be effectively implemented. We have seen this for quite a while, every time a political crisis develops in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, it obviously affects bilateral relations with Belgium. That's what we're living again for now. Our intention is not to develop this spirit of crisis but to encourage the resumption of dialogue. In any case, I will continue to maintain regular contact with the Congolese authorities, in particular with my counterpart.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u28	I thank the Minister for his answers. I believe that the priority is to make every effort to ensure that elections are held, even if, in my personal capacity, I still have serious doubts about Mr Kabila's willingness to conduct elections. His state of mind seems to be "to become president or to die". That's the feeling he gives. I hope that we can change his mind and accept the democratic transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u29	Perhaps the point in this story is that European solidarity and international unity are now being strengthened. At the expense of good relations, or at least the relationships they existed between Belgium and Congo, there is now at least the advantage of a broader consensus to examine the situation in Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for these very comprehensive answers. Indeed, we can only deplore the provocations of the Congolese authorities. At such times, we must be able to remain calm and try not to respond to it or to provoke a counterproductive escalation for both countries. I share your vision of the need to maintain a dialogue; a dialogue that must be frank, whether at the level of government-to-government relations, between Europe and the DRC, but also between parliamentarians. As you know, I continue to try to maintain contacts between parliaments through the Inter-Parliamentary Union. I think that this must also remain a way forward, the aim being – and here I also share your view – to take them at the word about the timetable and to ensure that elections can be held on 23 December; elections, of course, transparent and democratic. The solution will not come from Belgium; it is more than obvious. We need a response from the international community and, above all, the European Union. I'm less reassured about unanimity. This was seen in the reaction that the European Union should have had to face the demonstrations. Some countries have been reluctant and it has not been possible to make a strong joint statement. I hope we can do something about it. I know that you are ensuring that such a common position emerges. The other priority must be support for the Congolese population, which suffers greatly in the current economic and political context. I call for a rapid redeployment of cooperation. It was discussed yesterday with Minister De Croo. Enabel is working on it, but I think we need to keep a close eye on the fate of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed important that Belgium, of course preferably with as many partners as possible, should continue to work for the organisation of democratically legitimate elections. We must also do what is necessary to support the civilian population and to improve the human rights situation in Congo. I have two more points of interest. First of all, public opinion in Congo is clearly stirred up by a number of statements. The safety of the Belgians and other Europeans there is a point of interest. Secondly, following what Mr Crusnière said, we must guard against the risk of the European Union being played apart by Congo. At least you have the support of our group from the opposition. I believe that the government, both you and Minister De Croo, has taken good steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u32	As you said in your analysis, Minister, it is true that there is a rather three-point approach to divert attention from domestic politics and elections. All kinds of desks are being closed. I think it is a good thing that you say that we will now react more strongly within the European context, maintain dialogue and, above all, keep an eye on the humanitarian situation of the people. That line's still good. Indeed, the regime is reacting excessively, partly deconnected from reality. We support your position on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u33	Minister, we share your analysis and the overall strategy you seem to be following. We also share your concern about the dire situation of the Congolese population. It is in this sense that we understand your desire for dialogue, even if, like my colleague Flahaux, I have very little hope for the possibility of success in the short term of this dialogue, since the Congolese government does not seem to be decisively interested in the fate of its people. I would say that he is actually trying to turn an internal crisis into a diplomatic one. It is a bit of a Pavlovian reflex among Congolese representatives to try to divert attention. They're trying to isolate Belgium. In fact, they feel isolated. I welcome European solidarity in this regard. I also think that, indifferent to the fate of their people, they seem very sensitive to their own fate. I encourage you to continue to verify and request that all those who claim to reside here and who do not do so be removed from the population registers, that for all those who have a residence permit here, it be considered to remove them and extend visa bans for those who collaborate with or are within the Government and who are responsible for violence and human rights violations. This is of course a subject that we will certainly continue to address in the future. On the other hand, like other colleagues, I would also like to stress the need to increase our humanitarian assistance to the most vulnerable populations in the Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u34	Minister, following the broadcast of a report by the American channel CNN on an auction of migrants in Libya, the African Union hosted a meeting in Addis Ababa on 4 December on the issue of migrants detained in Libya, to which the UN and the European Union were invited. The aim was to implement as soon as possible a plan for the evacuation of migrants in collaboration with the International Organization for Migration (IOM). Minister, what are the concrete results of this meeting between the African Union, the UN and the European Union? What can the European Union's share of material aid for the repatriation of these thousands of Africans to their countries of origin? Throughout the European Union, will Belgium participate in the resolution of this humanitarian crisis and in what form? Will all the countries from which these migrants originate accept, or accept, this massive repatriation? What is the Libyan authorities' position on the measures put forward on 4 December? What are the main physical difficulties in implementing this plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u35	Thank you, Madam President. There is also a question from Mr Van der Maelen, so I have prepared a bilingual answer. The meeting on 4 December in Addis Ababa resulted in the process of repatriating or relocating detainees in Libya. It was thus decided that the tripartite task force between the European Union, the African Union and the United Nations would meet at three levels: political, operational and technical, and that the African Union would approach its most concerned Member States, namely Libya and those from which most migrants come, in order to make progress on a number of material difficulties, such as the issuance of identity documents by consular authorities, landing and overflight rights, access to detention centres, the reintegration of migrants, support for local Libyan communities previously involved in illegal migration or the sharing of information on trafficking networks and their financial assets. The aim is to accelerate the programme of assisted voluntary returns from Libya to countries of origin implemented by IOM and UNHCR's emergency transit mechanism, in order to evacuate persons in need of international protection. The role of the European Union is to provide the necessary financial resources for repatriation and support programmes and to reinforce the political messages of the African Union towards Libya and the countries of origin. In mid-December 2017, the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for African countries, including Belgium as one of the first unilateral donor countries, had contributed to the voluntary repatriation of more than 14,000 vulnerable migrants through IOM. At the end of January 2018, 20,000 migrants were able to return to their country thanks to IOM, while the European Union will finance an additional 15,000 voluntary returns, and will step up its support for emergency transit mechanisms, with at least 1,000 resettlements by the end of February 2018. The collaboration between the Libyan authorities and the countries of origin is improving, but sometimes remains laborious. It should also be noted that the Libyan authorities have just closed an illegal detention centre, and that other centres will soon be closed. Belgium approved by written procedure in 2017 a project of €46.3 million for Libya under the EU Emergency Trust Fund for Africa. This project was submitted by Italy and is officially called Support to Integrated Border and Migration Management in Libya. The overall objective of this programme is to strengthen the capacity of Libyan authorities with regard to migration management, including border control, the fight against smuggling and trafficking in human beings and search and rescue at sea and in the desert. A specific activity of this project is indeed the establishment of a national coordination centre and a maritime coordination centre for marine and coastal rescue operations, as well as search and rescue. A second concrete activity of this project is to accompany and support the relevant Libyan authorities with regard to the definition and establishment of a Libyan SAR zone with adequate SAR Standard Operations Procedures, in consultation with neighbouring countries and the international maritime organisation in accordance with its standards. The concerns and concerns expressed by Belgium during the procedure for approval were taken into account in the action sheet. As always, Belgium has put emphasis on full respect for human rights and international standards in all specific activities implemented on the basis of this project. In addition, Belgium, like some other Member States, has requested a meticulous monitoring and monitoring of the activity, including the use of the Third Party Monitoring system if appropriate. The effective and sustainable training of the Libyan Coast Guard was also a Belgian focus that was incorporated into the action sheet of the project. Belgium endorses the EU's policy in this regard, as far as possible in cooperation with the Libyan local authorities. Finally, Belgium continues to support the screening and training of the Belgian Coast Guard and Navy under the EU NAFOR MED operation in order to contribute to the further establishment and strengthening of a performant search and rescue. You see, Mr Flahaux, that since we have been discussing this issue, a lot of action has been taken. The images were obviously a trigger for the reaction of many actors. Belgium was not alone in taking action to try to close these detention centres in Libya; other actions took place at European and international levels. It also involved organizing the return and continuing to work on the training and observance of international standards by the Libyan authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answer. Sometimes this kind of image pushes governments in different countries to act more strongly. A kind of feudalism in Libya still favoured this situation. Each region was controlled by a different power, which allowed these illegal detention centres to continue. It will, of course, be necessary for a real judiciary to re-establish itself in Libya, in order to combat this phenomenon effectively. Unfortunately, we are not there yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u37	Madam President, Minister, last week's plenary session already covered this issue. The Prime Minister then replied to questions about his visit to Russia. My question dates from a while ago, but remains topical. We know the situation, and the progressive Russian austerity to the Minsk agreements continues to impose sanctions on Europe. The Prime Minister referred to the Harmel doctrine, according to which, on the one hand, we must seek out the dialogue and, on the other hand, continue to apply credible sanctions. Minister, perhaps you will have an important role to play next week. After all, on Valentine's Day, the day of love, you will return to Russia. Valentine's Day may also be the day for the Wiedergutmachung, with Russia. Together with Luxembourg, you will then visit Mr Lavrov. I would like to know the following from you. How do you see the current state of play? What elements could you add during the conversation, next week, with your counterpart? How can Luxembourg play a role in this? How's it going? Can you tell us more about your forthcoming meeting in Russia?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u38	Madam President, Minister, I agree with Mr Luykx's questions. My question is also about your visit to Russia next week. I would also like to return to the Prime Minister's visit. In his consultation with Prime Minister Medvedev and President Putin, he stressed the mutual economic interests. He also put on the table the European and Russian sanctions. These sanctions were recently extended until the end of July 2018. As Mr Luykx has just said, the Prime Minister referred to the Harmel Doctrine, with sanctions in addition to the search for dialogue. This dialogue is possible, for example, through the NATO-Russia Council, which still exists. We must ask ourselves whether we cannot continue to engage in dialogue there. I have the following specific questions. Firstly, what exactly did the Prime Minister mention during his various meetings in Russia and what was the answer to that? Secondly, can you explain the impact of EU sanctions on Russia? Thirdly, a question on human rights in Russia. We all know that they leave something to be desired. During the Prime Minister's discussions with Mr Putin and Mr Medvedev, the subject was moved a bit to the background. Was that the government's point of view? Fourthly, what follow-up will be given to this mission? Finally, I have a question about the NATO-Russia Council. How can it strengthen dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u39	Minister for Foreign Affairs, I am rarely critical of the government's visits to another country, but I must confess that I did not like the Prime Minister's visit to Russia at all. I did not understand what the Prime Minister was doing in Russia. I also want to ask him a question, but I am asking you this question as Minister of Foreign Affairs, especially since you are going back to it. This is a curiosity because the Prime Minister faced him with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the President, while on the Belgian side we go there in order dispersed. More fundamentally – this is the subject of my question – the Russian President is probably the most dangerous leader in the world today. We owe it the collapse and the total crash of Syria, the arrival of millions of refugees in Europe. We also owe him the invasion of Crimea. His ambiguous attitude to nuclear proliferation in North Korea is well known. It is known that it has prohibited the United Nations from investigating the use of chemical weapons in Syria. We know – the list is long – that it has intervened, more than probably, in a series of democratic elections, in the United States and perhaps elsewhere. Investigations are under way. Therefore, it seeks to destabilize our democracies. It's a very important threat. We also know that its planes are making incursions into the Baltic Sea, into the European sky. Our planes must also intervene more and more regularly with regard to the Russians. So we are in the presence of a leader who is destabilising us deeply, seriously and is one of the most important threats to the world today, but we are going there, God knows how to do what. In addition, he considered the extension of NATO to be a provocation. I wonder what the Prime Minister's father thinks of this because he was Minister of Foreign Affairs at the time of NATO's extension to the East. We also seem to be serving the propaganda of Mr Medvedev, since he was able to rejoice that the Belgian position was much more amiable than that of the European Union, while ironing the fact that he could grow apples and pears in Crimea that we can no longer export there because the climate is very favourable. Frankly, this mission was totally irrelevant, incomprehensible. Harmel doctrine has been invoked. Clearly, it has not been accepted that this doctrine has been negotiated and consolidated with the partners. First and foremost, it was a matter of having a common doctrine and a common approach to deterrence, on the one hand, and positive measures, on the other. In this case, it is a completely isolated intervention in relation to the European position and that which exists in other international fora. What was the Prime Minister going to do in Putin's country? What has been gained as an interest in Belgium? What will your action be in the coming week?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u40	Mr Dallemagne, it is not a question of sequence of visits. I have regular meetings with my colleague Sergei Lavrov. And what has been programmed for a long time is a joint economic committee, the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union–Russia. Only the Prime Minister's visit to Moscow was added to the agenda. I'll go into that in a bit more detail in a moment. In general, it can be said first of all that relations between Russia and the European Union are still strongly marked by Russian intervention in Ukraine, in particular the illegal annexation of Crimea and Russian actions in Eastern Ukraine. The most tangible consequence of this is the adoption by the EU of a series of economic and political sanctions against Russia since March 2014. Implementation of the Minsk agreements remains the key condition for a lasting political solution to the conflict in eastern Ukraine and for a change of position vis-à-vis Russia. In other words, unless substantial steps are taken in the implementation of the Minsk agreements, the European sanctions cannot be revised. In recent years little progress has been made in implementing the Minsk agreements. At present, both parties seem to prefer the status quo rather than making the necessary concessions. The security situation in eastern Ukraine has not improved in recent months. The number of violations of the ceasefire increased again. On 19 December, Russia withdrew from the Joint Centre for Control and Coordination, the joint consultative body with Ukraine. This is regrettable, but does not really make much difference from an operational point of view. However, there is also good news, because on 27 December an exchange of prisoners took place between Kiev and the rebels in the Donets Basin. In addition, Russia proposed a UN peacekeeping force. These proposals did not meet the necessary conditions, but in an adapted form they might offer prospects in the long term. Sanctions are never an end in themselves. As in other international cases, the European Union and our country are advocating a double approach, linking restrictive measures to dialogue. In the case of Ukraine too, sanctions and dialogue are two sides of the same coin. Both have the ultimate goal of bringing peace and security to Ukraine and the region. Our country therefore fully subscribes to European logic. While we firmly condemn the annexation of Crimea and the violation of territorial integrity in eastern Ukraine, we are also in favour of an effective dialogue, which will allow us to move gradually out of the impasse. This approach represents the implementation of the classical credo of Belgian diplomacy, firm on principles but open to dialogue. It is precisely in this approach that I will return to Russia next week. As always and as the Prime Minister has also done, I will take advantage of my meetings with the Russian authorities to have a frank dialogue on all issues, including red lines and the issues that are disturbing. This is what I did during my last meeting with my Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov last July. This is perfectly in line with the Harmel doctrine that we once again celebrated with the representatives of NATO, where this doctrine was mainly developed. Like the Prime Minister, I will have contacts with representatives of civil society. Support for Russian civil society and human rights defenders in Russia remains a very important axis of the European Union's approach, to which Belgium fully subscribes. It is also important to be able to discuss international issues with an important geopolitical actor, or even to discuss areas of cooperation where this is in our interest. I have regularly defended this idea in the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union, where I think we are right to take firm decisions on certain conflicting issues with Russia, but we must also ensure that the dialogue takes place, particularly at the level of the High Representative, Federica Mogherini. It is enough to see the firm positions adopted regularly by the United States, which do not in any way prevent the numerous bilateral contacts between the main United States and Russian officials. For example, it is important to talk to Russia about our bilateral relations, particularly in the economic field. In fact, my visit to Russia is part of the 11th edition of the Joint Economic Committee of the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union with Russia. It will be an important opportunity for the Russian authorities to address the challenges and obstacles facing our businesses on the ground. I am convinced that our companies will reap the benefits in the long term. With regard to the question on the precise economic impact of the European Union's sanctions, it is difficult to quantify. Russia's economic recovery can give the impression that it is all in relative terms. However, according to the information available, the sanctions have had and continue to have an effect, in particular by limiting access to international financial markets, but also by freezing the foreign investment they induce. Finally, as regards the question of NATO dialogue, the starting point remains the consensus as defined at the Warsaw Summit in 2016:no business as usual. Therefore, the NATO-Russia Council confines itself to political dialogue on specific issues such as Ukraine, Afghanistan, risk reduction and transparency. However, the differing views leave little room for progress, but here, too, Belgium, bearing in mind Harmel, believes in a balanced approach based on a combination of credible deterrent and dialogue and detente. I will therefore have the opportunity to repeat our approach and the approach of the European Union in the contacts we will have in Moscow. I would point out, of course, that, in agreement with the Luxembourg authorities, we will examine, within the framework of the sanctions and embargoes decided unilaterally by Russia, what activities can be developed at the start of our enterprises on Russian territory, as most of our European partners do elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your answers, which were satisfactory.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u42	Minister, your answers were sufficient for me too, for which I am grateful. It is important to underline that our relationship with Russia is not a one-sided story. It is good that the Prime Minister has tried to start a dialogue with Russia, but we must also of course not forget the reasons why sanctions have been imposed against Russia. That's a little too much in the background in communication, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u43	Thank you, Minister. First, there's actually a sequence. You said it was scheduled, but I guess the Prime Minister's visit wasn't improvised either. There is still a somewhat disorderly sequence, I find, of Belgian diplomacy (the Belgian Prime Minister for the first time, the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the second time) to visibly address the same issues. You agree here. I think they were better coordinated across the street. On the other hand, I note that your language elements are still quite different from those of the Prime Minister. You'd rather not go back on this, I guess. Again, these are words that I deeply regret. I think that when they consider that some European countries have put in place or voted for sanctions under pressure from the United States, that is to say, the ability of these European countries to decide for themselves what should or should not be done in their relations with Russia. When one actually hears some of the Prime Minister's comments on different subjects, one is still a little bit worried. I think that we were especially flattered there to be received in the residence of what remains again for me one of the most dangerous characters on the planet today and which probably has the responsibility of many deaths in a series of conflicts. I would also like to reiterate that I am pleased that, indeed, sanctions cannot be lifted as long as Russia occupies Crimea. Finally, I would like to go back to this Harmel doctrine, which is being put on all sauces for now. You are right to recall that this has been done within the framework of NATO. It is therefore within the framework of an alliance, an agreement, I would say, that there could be between the various members of NATO. These were not unilateral positions. I believe that it was a matter of being in balance on a dialogue. I see no problem in having a political dialogue, provided that we are firm on principles and that deterrence works effectively. Far from my idea that any relationship with Russia should be cut off, but I believe that this must be done in an extremely serious and responsible manner, given the seriousness of the threat this country poses to our own interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u44	Madam President, Minister, on Saturday, December 16, 2017, thousands of Chinese attended the Lufeng Stadium in Guangdong Province to the trial of ten accused sentenced to death and executed in public. An online video of this rare public trial shows the handcuffed suspects, exhibited by uniformed police officers in front of the spectators. At the time of the reading of their condemnation retransmitted by loudspeakers, they stood on a podium. China maintains the figures of its death sentences as a state secret, but according to NGOs, it is the country that holds the record of death sentences in the world before Iran and Saudi Arabia. The House, on the initiative of the Reform Movement, has tabled a motion for a resolution on the diplomatic initiatives Belgium must take for the universal abolition of the death penalty. Mr Minister, in the course of the various diplomatic exchanges between Belgium and the People's Republic of China, have you ever been able to raise Belgian concerns about its criminal policy and to reiterate our arguments against the effective application of the death penalty?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u45	Madam President, Mr Flahaux, the country's impressive economic developments do not seem to be followed by such a development in the field of human rights. I think you were able to see this during your trip with the Speaker of this Assembly in December 2016. You are referring to a public trial in a stadium on 16 December in Lufeng, Guangdong province. Twelve people were exhibited in front of a large number of spectators. Ten of them were sentenced to death for drug trafficking, armed robbery and murder. They were then taken and executed, but not in front of the public. This exhibition of convicts to the public has been criticized by the international press and, which is quite remarkable, also by the Chinese state press. It is clear that these actions run counter to human dignity and legal procedures, including those of the People's Supreme Court, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Public Security of China. The broader issue of the application of the death penalty in China is indeed a matter of concern. The number of convictions and executions is a State secret so well kept that international NGOs have given up making estimates of them. It is possible to estimate this number at several thousand per year. However, China indicated its willingness to limit the use of the death penalty. In 2015, the number of crimes punishable by the death penalty was reduced from 54 to 45. The People's Supreme Court is also more rigorous in ensuring the application of the death penalty by the lower courts. However, China does not plan to abolish the death penalty. The abolition of the death penalty is a priority of the foreign policy of Belgium and the European Union, including vis-à-vis China. The issue is closely followed by our embassy in Beijing and our representations within the UN. We are also coordinating within the European Union on this issue. Since in the short term, abolition or a moratorium does not seem realistic in China, our efforts are aimed at achieving at least more transparency and limiting the application of this penalty as much as possible. The subject was discussed in preparation for the Chinese Prime Minister's visit to Brussels in June 2017. As part of my next trip to China, which could already take place next May, I will have the opportunity to discuss it again with the Chinese authorities. Thus, in international forums and bilateral contacts, the European Union and Belgium continue to fight against this practice. Belgium will continue to work to keep the issue of the death penalty on the agenda of the Human Rights Council, with a view to launching a substantive debate on the subject and making progress on the universal abolition of the death penalty. This commitment was explicitly mentioned as one of the voluntary commitments that our country made when it applied for membership of the Human Rights Council. Finally, I am pleased to inform you that, together with High Representative Mogherini, I have responded positively to the question of the NGO Together Against the Death Penalty, which wanted us to host the next three-year world congress against the death penalty. This NGO congress will therefore be held in Brussels in February 2019 and will be able to count on the political support of Belgium and the European Union. The fight for the abolition of the death penalty is part of Belgium's general profile at the UN and beyond, in other forums. The abolition of the death penalty will remain a Belgian priority and will continue to be mentioned in the appropriate United Nations forums, regardless of Belgium's candidacy for a seat on the Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u46	It is a clear, clear and precise answer that does not require further comments from me. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u47	Minister, on Friday 5 January 2017 last in Muramvya, in the center of Burundi, the prosecutor's office demanded 23 years in prison against the provincial leader of an association for the fight for good governance (Parole and actions for the awakening of consciences and the evolution of mentalities – Parcem) and 20 years against two of his communal collaborators for the violation of the security of the State. The three men – Emmanuel Nshimiriamana, Aimé Constant Gatore and Marius Nizigiyimana – were arrested in June 2016 and then detained at the arrest house in this central province for violating the internal security of the state. According to the president of the Parim association, Faustin Ndikumana, the three members of his association were arrested as they were preparing a workshop, a meeting known to the authorities, in which they were preparing an internal working document that would have invited both members of the opposition political parties and members of the ruling party. Minister, obviously, the sentences required against these three opponents of the regime appear to be out of proportion to the facts reported by the President of Parim. Does Belgium have any other information on this issue? In the event that the Burundian justice system had to confirm the sentences required, what would Belgium's reaction be?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u48	Minister, I would also like to question you, but my questions will focus on the general situation in Burundi. Indeed, it is known that the population of this country suffers enormously, especially since the 2015 elections. It's obviously not close to settling down there either. Indeed, the power in place has the will to amend the Constitution to allow the president to stay longer. If the draft currently under discussion was adopted, the term of office could be extended from five to seven years, and the possibility of running for two successive terms would be open. It would also be planned to start from scratch if the Constitution were to be amended and the process was under way, which means that in the coming elections of 2020, the current President could apply again for two seven-year terms and remain in place for fourteen years, until 2034. The government claims to want to carry out an explanatory campaign of the various amendments that would be made to the Constitution, but is carrying out a real campaign for the yes at present. Anyone who opposes the government's plans is arrested. Since December, more than 40 opposition party activists have been arrested. Minister, in your opinion, how is the situation in Burundi evolving and how are relations between our two countries evolving? Has the situation in Burundi recently been discussed with your European counterparts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Burundi is not moving in the right direction. That's the least we can say! The ABC mediation is at a standstill. In the absence of dialogue and external pressure, with the exception of the measures of Article 96 still in place and our own measures, Burundi is continuing its path towards constitutional reform. In addition to the issue of mandates, several provisions of the future Constitution could undermine the ethnic and political balances resulting from the Arusha agreement. By dealing with the majorities required to approve legislation and the institutional architecture, guarantees granted to the minority are taken back. The human rights situation remains of great concern. Civil society activists are imprisoned and face prison sentences for holding meetings that are slightly critical of the government or for collaborating with NGOs. At the closing session of the Universal Periodic Review on the situation of human rights in Burundi, Burundi received 242 recommendations from the delegations present, but the Burundian authorities remain in a position of denial regarding human rights violations. With regard to the situation of the members of the Parem association in particular and if the justice system were to confirm their sentences, we would of course not be able to remain silent and inactive. Unfortunately, this is not an isolated case. Our embassy as well as the other European embassies are in contact with Faustin Ndikumana, president of this association, and will not fail to mention the matter with the Burundian authorities. In addition, we are exploring the possibility of attending trial hearings and organizing visits to prisoners. During the Universal Periodic Review, our country also presented several recommendations to the Burundian authorities, including the lifting of legal and financial measures against human rights defenders and journalists and, in the short term, the taking of necessary measures to prevent acts of harassment and violence against them, including by ensuring that those who commit such violence are prosecuted. In this difficult context, however, we want to keep the channels of communication with Burundi open, because we believe that it is through dialogue that we can find a solution to the crisis. It is in this spirit that our special envoy "Great Lakes" will visit Bujumbura in the coming months. You will also have noted the European Union's declaration on the constitutional review undertaken on 15 December. My services are in regular contact with the European External Action Service and those of the Commission on Burundi. The aim is to find new ideas to break the deadlock. Indeed, we are moving towards a referendum on the Constitution, which could be held before May. It could be followed by early elections. These deadlines and the lack of regional dialogue must prompt the European Union to reflect quickly on the new steps to be taken to avoid Burundi's long-term shift towards an increasingly closed regime. On the occasion of the launch of the campaign to support this revision, after consultation with our European partners, it was decided that the participation of the Belgian ambassador was not appropriate. It was therefore agreed that a collaborator would participate, in order to remain informed of the content of the campaign. In addition, shortly after the ceremony, a communiqué from the European Union informed the Burundian authorities that the conditions for such a process were not in place and that the proposed revision of the Constitution was endangering certain crucial aspects of the Arusha Agreement. I can therefore assure you that Belgium does not intend to subscribe to such a scenario. With regard to the presence of our cooperation on the spot, it is at an impasse. For this reason, direct cooperation with the Burundian authorities remains suspended. Similarly, a new programme of cooperation is not on the agenda. This does not mean that Belgian Development Cooperation is no longer active. Several projects involving institutional support from the Burundian Government have been suspended, namely support for decentralization, justice, governance and the public procurement system. However, programmes in terms of agricultural development, health and education, which are directly aimed at improving the well-being of the Burundian people, are continuing. We are, of course, trying to continue to provide direct support to the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u50	Mr Minister, I know that here too, you are taking almost daily action to improve human rights in this country. Unfortunately, unlike neighbouring Rwanda, where the human rights situation is also subject to question, the economic situation is extremely difficult. It is known how difficult economic development is, not to mention the situation of Burundian refugees outside the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u51	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for his answers. It is clear from the proposed constitutional amendments that the situation in Burundi is not close to being resolved. Our priority must remain the population. I hear that there are avenues for solutions at the level of cooperation. Of course, we must do everything we can to do that. For my part, I keep the channels open with some people. As soon as this morning, I met with one of the presidents of the opposition party who came with a whole series of requests. I sent him back to your office and Minister De Croo's. CNARED once again wishes to have contact with our parliamentarians. I'll talk to the chairman of the committee. This could be considered informally with the members of this commission or within the framework of the IPU. I am also ready to organize such meetings. This dialogue must also be maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u52	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van der Maelen's 22802 lapses as he is not present. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 22815 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u53	Madam President, Minister, I read that diplomats and officials from Georgia were invited to our Foreign Affairs Office in December for a training week on European affairs, in particular in the context of the implementation of the Association Treaty with the European Union and in support of their daily work. The FPS Foreign Affairs has apparently been organising such training weeks for foreign diplomats since 1999. This is an interesting initiative that, frankly, I haven't known yet. That is why I would like to ask you a number of questions about this. How often are such trainings organised by FPS Foreign Affairs? Is there also an evaluation linked to this? Is there any follow-up to the extent to which these practices are adopted? Is there a mutual exchange or feedback on the training? On what criteria are countries invited? Which countries are eligible? How is that determined? Are there any requests? Are there waiting lists? Do the participating countries pay a contribution to the costs? Is the reverse movement also taking place? How often and by which countries are our officials or diplomats invited to participate in a best practice exchange?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u54	Madam President, Mr Luykx, the Foreign Affairs Office organises this specific type of training twice a year, each time for groups of ten officials. Each training week will end with a debriefing, where feedback from the participants is requested and wherever it is offered to develop certain themes that are particularly useful for the country. The feedback is broadly positive and effectively leads to further follow-up in concrete cases. For example, in 2017 a seminar was organised in Bosnia and Herzegovina for some 80 participants on the Belgian coordination mechanism in preparation for the various filières of the Councils of Ministers of the European Union. A seminar on the transposition of EU legislation is also planned in Bosnia and Herzegovina this year. Representatives of the Regions and Communities participated and actively participated. The initiative was originally launched in 1999 for the benefit of candidate countries prior to the 2004 enlargement wave and then continued in the same way for the benefit of Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia and today the six countries of the Western Balkans respectively. In addition, in the past year an internship week was also offered to Moldova, Ukraine and Georgia, respectively, the three Eastern Partnership countries that concluded an association agreement and an overall trade agreement with the EU. This is useful from the observation that associated countries are also committed to a far-reaching harmonisation of their legislation and policies with the European Union. Such training is usually offered as a concrete deliverable resulting from bilateral diplomatic consultations or political dialogue. Once the initiative is known, it is often asked for a repetition by the beneficiary countries themselves, each time for a new group of officials. In my many bilateral contacts, I always put forward a proposal. It is always possible to do so, especially at the request of a country in such a situation. The FPS Foreign Affairs is responsible for the main costs, namely the transfer to Brussels and the hotel. In this context, I do not immediately expect reciprocity as the aim is to share our country's years of experience in European affairs with possible future Member States and/or associated countries. I am prepared to discuss with other countries in a different context, including training, but certainly not in such a process.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u55	Minister, I think it would be good to share expertise in this way, including for the image of this country and for the quality of our diplomats. Are there other European Member States that are doing the same or are we the only ones? As far as the possible future Member States are concerned, I understand that there will be a question on how this works and how they can best prepare themselves. That's a good thing. Whether they should become an effective member of the European Union will depend on other factors. Does Belgium have a unique position in this? Are we the only ones doing this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u56	I don't know. I will ask if it is possible to get some more information from the other countries. This was done from the seat of the European institutions, in cooperation with the European Commission. For a number of procedures and training sessions we work together with the European Commission. That is perhaps why it happened in Belgium and not in other countries. I don't have any precise information on that at the moment. I will ask for more details on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u57	Madam President, Minister, since the end of December - early January, demonstrations have been taking place all over Iran to protest the government's policy. Protesters complain about economic difficulties, expensive living, unemployment and corruption, as well as the regime. This has recently been seen in public demonstrations in front of journalists. Mr Minister, according to your analysis, for what reasons does Hassan Rohani find it difficult to raise the Iranian economy, despite the partial lifting of international sanctions following the Iranian nuclear agreement? What is the impact on the Iranian economy of Mr Trump's refusal to certify the Iranian nuclear agreement? Does his "tweets" reach the Iranian streets? I hope not! Europe must become more assertive by encouraging the development of economic relations and tourism, while ensuring respect for its democratic values. What concrete measures could lead to the democratization of this theocratic regime? We know the president doesn't have real power. The Guardians of the Revolution are ultimately the real power in this country. Could Belgium, through your voice, be at the origin of such initiatives within the European Union, given that it is a member of the UN Human Rights Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u58	Let me turn to my second question. Mr Minister, your Iranian Foreign Affairs counterpart, Mohammed Javad Zarif, met on Thursday 11 January 2018 with the head of European diplomacy, Federica Mogherini, on the Iranian nuclear agreement. Mr Minister, the European position is in contrast to that of the Trump administration. What are the new elements following this meeting between Iranian and European diplomacy? What are the real and tangible consequences of Donald Trump's announcement last October of the non-certification of the Iranian nuclear agreement? The White House has also announced possible new sanctions against Tehran. What is the European Union's reaction to this announcement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u59	Minister, on 11 January you did indeed have a meeting with your Iranian Foreign Minister, Mr Mohammad Javad Zarif. He also had a meeting with the European Union, including on the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action nuclear agreement. My first question is a follow-up question to our resolution on the death penalty against Mr Djalali. You have undoubtedly also raised the issue with the Iranian Foreign Minister, so that that punishment would not be carried out. What was his answer? Do you know whether the issue was also raised in the Iranian Minister's talks with the European Union? In the meantime, the death penalty has been confirmed again. What further steps could you possibly take in the file? Secondly, we underline the importance of maintaining the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). This was also endorsed in the consultations with the European Union. In your press release, however, you are right to point out that the steps forward in that agreement do not prevent us from continuing to adopt a critical attitude towards Iran with regard, among other things, to human rights, Iran's role in the region and the recent street protests. I have the following partial questions. What is your analysis of the evolution of the implementation of that Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action? What was the response of the Iranian Minister to your comments on human rights in Iran, Iran's role in the region and recent street protests? What follow-up will you give to Minister Zarif's answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the protests in Iran at the end of last year had several causes, of which the socio-economic situation in the country may be the most important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u61	According to the Iranian authorities, the nuclear agreement JCPOA, which Iran concluded with the international community, has not yet brought the expected economic growth that the Iranian people are demanding. Despite the lifting of sanctions under the JCPOA, Iran is still subject to other sanctions linked to its ballistic missile programme and the human rights situation. Moreover, the extraterritorial nature of US sanctions has a major impact, in particular on the banking sector, which in the past has been very reluctant to support projects in Iran due to fines imposed by the US authorities. As a result, the growth of Iran's international trade is limited. Moreover, it cannot be denied that Iran has not yet taken any significant steps to reform its economy, in order, inter alia, to increase transparency, reduce administrative procedures and prevent corruption. During my meeting with Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif in early January, I discussed all these issues. The exact impact of statements by foreign politicians is difficult to estimate, but the Iranian government attaches great importance to them. Belgium addresses the human rights situation in any bilateral contact with the Iranian Government. It is also a position that Belgium regularly defends in the European Union. In view of the recent demonstrations in Iran, during my meeting with Minister Zarif, I specifically raised the issue of respect for the right to freedom of expression of the Iranian people and the possibility of peaceful intervention. In addition, I have expressed regret about the deaths and the many arrests. I also asked for the necessary measures to be taken to avoid such incidents in the future. Mr Ahmadreza Djalali's case was also discussed in detail. I personally advocated to Minister Zarif not to implement the death penalty for humanitarian reasons and reiterated the Belgian principle of the death penalty. Minister Zarif had committed himself to making an effort in the file, but without giving any guarantees. Meanwhile, Iranian justice would have confirmed the death penalty against Mr Djalali. I therefore immediately instructed our embassy in Tehran to clarify the legal situation of Mr Djalali and to ask again not to implement the death penalty. The Tehran Embassy will also join a joint démarche with Swedish, Italian and EU colleagues to maintain pressure on the Iranian authorities. President Donald Trump has refused to certify the nuclear agreement since last October, but he has maintained the suspension of the sanctions provided for in this agreement, thus allowing the continued implementation of the agreement by all parties. However, it has linked the continuation of this approach to complementary measures by the US Congress and European partners, in order to strengthen control over the nuclear programme and to counter other destabilizing actions, such as the development of long-range ballistic missiles. The European Union is making every effort to safeguard the nuclear agreement without which any restriction or control on the nuclear programme could disappear. I had the opportunity to say so before the Commission and raised these issues during a visit to Washington. I met Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. I talked to my Iranian counterpart, Mr. Zarif. I stressed that we should continue to work separately on the nuclear agreement, which must be fully implemented, and on the other hand, to open various dialogues on ballistic missiles and Iran's regional role. Iran plays a role in some conflicts in the region. However, I believe that the nuclear agreement should not be linked to these new discussions. I hope that we will also have the opportunity to make progress in the discussions on these sensitive issues concerning the regional role of Iran and the development of ballistic missiles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u62	Thank you for your answers. In the light of my recent trip to Iran with the Speaker of the House, I realize how great Iran can be both a great opportunity for Europe while remaining in an extremely complex political-religious situation. It is felt that the Iranian youth, large because 75 per cent of the population of this country was born after the fall of the Shah regime, is extremely attentive, and pro-Western. I have never seen a country where young people came from the outset to speak to you and show such a willingness to dialogue, although often in bad English. It is surprising to see how much young people want to talk. It is also a beautiful country where European, French and Belgian tourism, in particular, is developing strongly. In this context, it is certainly not necessary to cut the bridges. I believe that one day this cursed regime of ayatollahs will fall like a ripe fruit, and I use the word "wrong" on purpose. In the meantime, the situation remains particularly difficult. We know that Iran, like China, is one of the countries that pronounces the most death sentences. We have to call him back.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answers. I am particularly pleased that you continue to exert diplomatic pressure on Professor Djalali's file. You are also doing this at European level. We must make it really clear that this cannot be done for us. We must, of course, do more than just say that we cannot do this; we must also try to find a solution to this situation. In any case, I would like to thank you for your continued attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u64	Madam President, Minister, 29 civilians died on Wednesday 3 January in Misraba in the eastern Ghouta region, near Damascus. Most of them have been the victims of Russian air raids that support Bashar al-Assad's regime. Seven children, eleven women and one first aid worker were among the victims. Some 400,000 people live in a state of siege in eastern Ghouta, the last fiefdom of the insurgents near the Syrian capital, affected by severe food and medical shortages and subjected to numerous bombings. The UN Security Council voted in mid-December 2017 on Resolution 2393 renewing the authorization of cross-border humanitarian operations in Syria, without any obvious impact on the ground. Mr. Minister, according to your sources, is it the Russian aviation that is responsible for this attack? What is Moscow's reaction to it? A new UN resolution was adopted. It is supposed to allow humanitarian operations in this area. What about its effectiveness on the ground? According to the United Nations, the regime's persistent obstacles to humanitarian assistance and medical evacuations in eastern Ghouta constitute a flagrant violation of international law. What could force Russia to stop complicity with the Bashar al-Assad regime? I honestly believe that there are only a few constraints from the moment that Mr Putin's scenario gave him reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u65	Madam President, Mr Flahaux, like you, I have read the reports of the attack on Misraba earlier this month, in which dozens of citizens lost their lives, and of the fact that Russian aviation would be responsible for this attack. The Russian authorities have not confirmed this information, but have stated that they attack only extremist Islamists. Security Council Resolution 2393 extends the approval of UN assistance across borders (cross-border aid) for one year. Since the start of cross-border operations in July 2014, 714 cross-border shipments have been made using 18,154 trucks, both via Turkey and Jordan. Approximately 1 million Syrians receive food aid each month through these trans-fron-talar operations. While these operations remain crucial, there is an urgent need to improve aid across the front lines, such as for Eastern Ghouta. Although the Security Council resolution authorizes operations across the front lines, explicit approval by the Syrian authorities is required for convoys crossing the front lines so that they can safely cross the checkpoints of the Syrian armed forces. Despite the numerous requests for access to eastern Ghouta, so far no authorization from the Syrian government has been issued for such operations. It can therefore be concluded that despite resolution 2393 and previous resolutions, access through the front lines in the besieged region of Syria remains very complex and largely insufficient due to the ongoing conflict, administrative obstacles and deliberate restrictions imposed by the parties to the conflict. Belgium systematically advocates free access to humanitarian aid in Syria, in particular for the besieged population in eastern Ghouta. During each of my bilateral contacts with my Russian counterpart, Mr Sergei Lavrov, I address the situation in Syria – I will do so again next week – and the Syrian regime's responsibility for the humanitarian disaster. Only a political process can bring about a lasting solution to the conflict in Syria. Russia also wants to convert its costly military successes into a political settlement of the conflict. In order to benefit from the international legitimacy of the United Nations, this solution must ensure that all segments of Syrian society can participate in a balanced manner in power, without providing an individual guarantee to the leaders. I hope that we can resume this kind of discussion, mainly in Geneva. I have again spoken about this in recent months with, in particular, the special envoy of Secretary-General Staffan de Mistura. We will do everything we can to help with this. In the meantime, you are right to insist on the verification of the tragedies that occur following strikes on Syrian territory, and to hope that we can develop humanitarian aid, particularly through the front lines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answer. Before the Russian presidential elections, I would be surprised if Mr Putin changed his agenda. I think he might possibly be more open to discussion after the presidential elections. That is certainly to be hoped for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u67	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 22874 by Mrs Pas and Question No 22874 by Mrs Cassanmagnago Cerretti Mrs Pehliv's 22875 were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 23002 by Mrs Jadin has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 23057 by Mr Luykx 23062 by Mrs Grovonius are also postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Winckel's 23077 lapses as she is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u68	Minister, Republika Srpska has long been a care child for Bosnia and Herzegovina. President Dodik repeatedly announced an independence referendum, and then postponed it. During the celebrations of the national holiday, he also makes statements that are a thorn in the eye for the rest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Recently there were reports of a Serbian militia consisting of ultra-nationalists who would be supported and trained by Russia. Russia is denying this, of course. Nevertheless, it is worrying, particularly in the light of the accession talks and the expansion of NATO in that region. Minister, how serious do you think the threat posed by these paramilitary groups is? To what extent do they pose a threat to the region? What instruments do Bosnia and Herzegovina and other Western Balkan countries have to tackle this problem? Will they receive support from NATO and the EUFOR mission? What is the state of play regarding the policy of small arms control in the Western Balkans, which is monitored by multilateral organisations such as the OSCE? What impact does the existence of these paramilitary groups have on the accession talks between the EU and the candidates in the Western Balkans in the light of the Bulgarian Presidency of the European Union? Will you raise the issue of these paramilitary groups in the Western Balkans at the NATO summit in July 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u69	Mrs Bellens, on the paramilitary groups to which you refer, there are insufficient data to assess the threat to the region. However, we will follow this issue closely. At regional level, both the EU and NATO pay attention to the stability and security of the Western Balkans. At a Warsaw Summit in 2016, the Heads of State or Government of NATO expressed their support for the territoriality and sovereignty of a secure and stable Bosnia and Herzegovina. NATO is also leading a peace support operation in Kosovo, KFOR. In addition, the EU is implementing the EUFOR Althea operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as the civilian EULEX mission in Kosovo. The priority of the EUFOR operation continues to support the Bosnian authority in maintaining a safe and secure environment under its executive mandate. Despite periods of increased tension, EUFOR has not been necessary to assist the Bosnian authorities in their mission. The local authorities have thus been able to do anything without such intervention. At present, NATO does not conduct accession talks with Bosnia and Herzegovina, but NATO assists the country in reforming its defence. The Western Balkans will receive special attention in the first half of 2018 within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the EU. Belgium supports this commitment towards the Western Balkans. It is also in our interest that these countries should be able to demonstrate, before joining the European Union, the proper functioning of their democratic system and the rule of law and that they have integrated the acquis communautaire. An adequate toolbox in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, both in the area of justice and police, is one of the fundamental criteria for all the countries of the Western Balkans against which rapprochement with the EU is considered. With regard to the policy on small arms control, the OSCE mission in Sarajevo is active in destroying old ammunition stocks. The spread of unregistered small arms and light weapons is indeed a lasting concern for Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Western Balkans in general. The European Union actively supports the work of SEESAC, the South-East and Eastern European Clearinghouse for the control of small arms and light weapons, a structure which at regional level strengthens the capacity of national and regional actors to control and reduce proliferation and abuse of small arms and light weapons. Yesterday and the day before yesterday I had a meeting with the Prime Ministers of the Netherlands and Luxembourg, in the Benelux context, with the Prime Minister of Slovenia. In this context, too, we discussed the Western Balkans, which confirmed the European Union's open-door policy towards the six countries concerned, provided that a number of rules are followed. We will therefore work on the basis of the definition of all the criteria and conditions before we can move towards accession. However, the door must remain open. It is true that a number of major problems still need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u70	Minister, I agree with you on this region. It is seen that in Bosnia and Herzegovina 20 years after the conclusion of the peace treaty, this remains the basis on which the country is organised today and the policy is pursued. It wasn't supposed to last that long. So it remains a region where it does not take much to ignite the fuse of the powder keg. Justice and police are, in my view, the most important issues for the countries of the Western Balkans in order to be able to join the European Union. As I said in plenary, we hope that you will defend that position firmly with the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u71	Madam President, I should like to point out that my question No 23174 is transformed into a written question. With the agreement of Mr Crusnière, since we were six speakers for item 33, we propose to postpone it to a future meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u72	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 23174 was converted into a written question. Mr De Roover is also present for the joint questions under item 33.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u73	I'm sorry, I didn't see that Mr. De Roover was there. So we can ask the attached questions, since he is with us. I didn't see him when we discussed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u74	I have been particularly present at this committee meeting in order to be able to ask this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u75	In this case, of course, we will put them down.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u76	Minister, I would like to ask you about your meeting with the Syrian opposition chief negotiator and the Syrian negotiating committee delegation. This interview took place a few days before the start of the new round of discussions on the Syrian conflict in Geneva. One of the main objectives of this meeting was to examine how to undertake negotiations between all parties and actors on the ground. We know that this is a particularly complex matter. At the press conference that took place at the end of the meeting, you encouraged the current regime to give a clear signal of its willingness to enter into genuine negotiations and its sincere commitment to share power and to rule Syria otherwise. Minister, can you, therefore, give us more details on the content of the meeting? Does the new round of negotiations in Geneva, in your opinion, have any chance of success?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u77	Mr Crusnière, I have expressed my hope to Mr Naser al-Hariri, Chairman of the Syrian Negotiating Commission (SNC), that all parties will enter into negotiations without preconditions. Moreover, we had further clarified this point of view with the special envoy Staffan de Mistura, who saw Mr. Hariri in the wake of my meeting with him. In addition, I reiterated Belgian support for the opposition and stressed the need to work towards an adjusted Constitution that would enable all communities in Syria to participate in a balanced manner in power and make possible elections observed by the United Nations. I also spoke with Mr Hariri about the second Brussels conference, to be held next April, which Belgium expects to have an important role for Syrian civil society. During my interview, the position of the Syrian Negotiating Commission on the Russian-organized conference in Sochi was not yet clear. In the meantime, however, this conference was held in the absence of the Syrian Negotiating Commission and a large part of the international community. The results of this meeting are, moreover, rather limited. All our attention must now be paid to the continuation of the negotiations in Geneva, under the auspices of the United Nations and, in particular, the Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura. According to the assessments of the last talks in Vienna and Geneva, it appears above all that the Assad regime has shown too little commitment to genuine negotiations. Even a direct encounter between the opposition and the regime has proved impossible. President Assad's support in the region must make it clear that only genuine negotiations can provide a solution to the conflict. I delivered this message to my Iranian counterpart, Mr Zarif, at our meeting in early January. I will do the same to my Russian counterpart during my next visit to Moscow. We will make every effort to ensure that, under the auspices of the United Nations, partners in Geneva can commit themselves to meaningful negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u78	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u79	Debates of the European Parliament 23093 by Mrs Pehlivan has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u80	Minister, I would like to ask you about your meeting with the Foreign Minister of Saudi Arabia. In particular, an agreement was reached between Saudi Arabia and Belgium during this interview to entrust the management of the Great Mosque to Belgium and to terminate the concession offered to Saudi Arabia. Two points still need to be decided: on the one hand, the authority which will be responsible for the management of this place, even if the recommendations of the commission of inquiry are quite clear on this point, and on the other hand, the double question of the financing of the establishment. What about the acquisition of the concession and the work in progress, as well as the financing for the future of the Great Mosque, which would therefore take on a dimension of representation of Islam in Belgium? Can you give us a debriefing of the meeting with your Saudi counterpart? In particular, you would have referred to Saudi Arabia's policy on Islamic institutions and Islamic centres. Can you tell us more? Have there been any financial agreements with Saudi Arabia regarding the termination of the concession?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u81	Mr Crusnière, during my meeting with Saudi Foreign Minister Adel al-Joubeir on 16 January, I addressed the concerns of Belgian public opinion regarding Saudi Arabia and the situation in the Middle East. The dossiers of the Great Mosque and the financing from the Gulf were therefore discussed. Saudi Arabia supports the efforts of the Belgian authorities to introduce an open and inclusive Islam into the Great Mosque. Minister Adel al-Joubeir also stressed the Saudi choice to clean up the World Islamic League and its activities abroad, including by renewing or closing, as a last resort, mosques preaching extreme Islam. This will is part of Saudi efforts to combat extremism in collaboration with its international partners. I have taken note of our common objective, reiterating the intention on the Belgian side to break the concession granted to the Great Mosque, through the Islamic Cultural Centre, which is currently under way with my colleagues from the Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, and for Justice, with regard to the reorganization of the management of the Great Mosque, involving all the Belgian Muslim currents, with a role for the Muslim Executive of Belgium (EMB). For your more specific questions on how to break the concession, I refer you to my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. I imagine that the Minister of Justice will be more aware of the definition of the actors involved in the management of the Great Mosque. With regard to financial flows from Saudi Arabia, we wish to establish a bilateral transparency mechanism. Such collaboration may be incorporated into Saudi law requiring that any funding abroad be possible only with the written consent of the host country. I also expressed my satisfaction at the forthcoming prospect of a MoU between the Financial Information Processing Unit, CTIF and Saudi Arabia Financial Investigation Unit (SAFU). The purpose of the agreement is to exchange information on money-laundering, terrorist financing and related crimes. With regard to the regional situation, I have addressed the conflicts in Syria and Yemen, the Middle East peace process and the escalation of the Iran-Saudi opposition. I took the opportunity to recall our position. It calls for an inclusive dialogue between parties or various conflicts, in particular, between the two major regional actors, Iran and Saudi Arabia. I have also reiterated our position, which is that of the European Union, on the need to preserve the nuclear agreement with Iran while engaging with that country in further dialogue on its role in the region and its ballistic programme. We had already had the opportunity to also mention the need for a dialogue between Saudi Arabia and Qatar, if we are to emerge from the crisis in the Gulf at the present time. I want to stress that these meetings are an opportunity to see a clear commitment – to monitor its implementation – to allow other directions to develop in the European Muslim communities and, in particular, in Belgium, through real control over external funding and the ability to take over, through the local communities, the management of the Grand Mosque of the Fiftieth Anniversary. This is an approach to be followed closely. There will, of course, still be discussions with my Saudi colleague in the coming months, to continue working on these various aspects, particularly as a result of the debates in the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u82	Minister, thank you for these answers. This will of Saudi Arabia must be acknowledged. Of course, this will have to happen quickly and continue to put pressure on him in this regard. This is an important issue that has been the subject of lengthy discussions in the "Attents" Committee. I really invite you to continue the work while exerting pressure to move forward in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt converted 23119 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u84	Madam President, Minister, I was alarmed by a collective of some 30 historians who sent an open letter to the Prime Minister and to yourself asking you to stop the transfer of the Belgian colonial archives. Indeed, the transfer of these archives from the FPS Foreign Affairs to the General Archives of the Kingdom is planned. The main researchers working on Belgian colonial Africa are expressing their concerns. According to them, the reclassification of all these archives will take time and this transfer of documents could unfortunately result in some losses of archives. Minister, what is your position with respect to the open letter addressed to you? Is the transfer of archives still on the agenda? If so, can you give me the reasons for this transaction and the technical details of such a move? What guarantees have you taken to ensure that this operation is carried out in an optimal manner, without loss of documents? What about access to these? This problem is of importance. This morning we had a very interesting debate in the context of the resolution on the Métis with the problem of access to state archives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u85	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, the memorandum of understanding signed in 2014 between the SPF Foreign Affairs and the General Archives of the Kingdom providing for the transfer of African archives was confirmed in 2017 and extended to the archives of cooperation and diplomatic archives of more than 30 years. This transfer operation continues and a little over a kilometre of archives have already been transferred to the Cuvelier repository of the General Archives of the Kingdom. The reasons for this operation are legal, economic and structural. The 2009 Archives Act requires federal institutions to deposit their archives in the Kingdom General Archives for more than 30 years. For the FPS Foreign Affairs, a transfer exemption may be granted for archives under the age of 50, which is not the case for African archives. The transfer of archives will also allow the FPS Foreign Affairs to eventually save staff and resources that can be reallocated to the department's more priority tasks. Finally, this transfer will give a new dynamic to the African archives, following an inventory meeting the new archival standards and the digitization of various research tools. The commitments made in these agreements ensure that the funds will remain available for research during the pre-transfer reconditioning phases and that the period of inaccessibility will not exceed 15 days during the physical transfer between the two institutions. This transfer is overseen by officials from both institutions, allowing for the optimal transmission of knowledge and documents. Once transferred, these archives will be made available to the Kingdom General Archives under the best possible conditions. I believe that there is some logic in wanting to professionalize the holding of archives in the same context, that of the General Archives of the Kingdom. We will, of course, ensure that all operations take place in the best possible conditions, reassuring all the researchers, whose concern I can understand. Whenever we consider moving archives from one place to another, it is normal for such concerns to be raised, but I think we are really moving towards optimal access and professionalization of archives management based on the new techniques that are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I can understand the motivations behind this move. I do hope that it will be done without loss of documents, which, of course, was the main concern of all these researchers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u87	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 231, by Mrs Capoen Mr Flahaux's 23174 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u88	Minister, I certainly do not need to give an introduction to the operation, which is ironically called Operation Olive branch. Meanwhile, President Erdogan defends himself by saying that he has the right to defend his own territory. That is indeed an international law, but a number of professors of International Law in De Volkskrant a few days ago indicated that there is no international legal basis for such action, since there is no registered attack on Syrian territory to Turkey. It is also in danger of becoming a humanitarian disaster. The French Foreign Minister said today that it is very serious when a war is added to a war, because there is already chaos around Syria. There's even a threat of ethnic cleansing. This is evident from a number of statements on the Turkish side. We must also remember that we have deployed the Kurdish militias that are currently under attack as an ally on the ground in the reasonably successful fight against IS. For these and a number of other reasons, I want to remain within the time frame of the question, I would like to ask you the following questions concerning the military operations in Afrin of the Turkish army. In what way do you intend to respond in the most efficient way, of course in the European context? Do you think it makes sense to pronounce a formal conviction? What possibilities are there in NATO, an essential part of our security structure, of which Turkey is a member?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u89	Madam President, Minister, there are many questions about this military campaign in the enclave of Afrin. This offensive would target the Kurdish militias of the People's Protection Units (YPGs), who were partners of the West in the fight against Daesh. Since the beginning of operations, 60 YPG fighters and pro-Turkish Syrian rebel groups have been killed, as well as 24 civilians. In parallel with this military offensive, there would be repression in Turkey against all those who oppose this operation. Westerners have been very concerned about the escalation of violence and continue to do so; this is obvious. In particular, France called for an urgent meeting of the Security Council. This meeting took place, but unfortunately there was no condemnation of the escalation in Syria. Minister, what is the latest information on this military operation? What is the position of military diplomacy in this context? Have you had contact with the Turkish authorities on this matter? Can this operation have consequences within NATO and the international coalition to fight Daesh in this region where, I would remind you, Belgian Defence is also active?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u90	Madam President, Minister, it has been months since Turkish President Erdogan planned to launch his army in the attack on Afrin, the enclave held by Syrian Kurds in north-western Syria. He even said "want to liquidate the nests of terrorists on Turkey's borders". On January 18, the offensive seemed imminent. Televisions showed reinforcements in men, tanks and armoured vehicles massed in the Hatay area along the border with Syria. Guns of artillery shelled the enclave unabated. According to the Turkish Minister of Defence, artillery thus prepares the ground in the Afrin region of Syria. Mr Minister, would an attack on Syria by Erdogan Turkey be legal from the point of view of international law? Turkey has made itself indispensable to the European Union in the management of Syrian and Afghan refugees. Is this not, in a way, a way of preventing any retaliatory action by the European Union against it in such a case? What is the reaction of the Russian forces occupying the Afrin region at the moment, when such a draft Turkish attack is taking place? The Kurdish forces conquered their territory over the Nazislamists. Is it not the time for the international community to intervene to enable this Kurdish people to enjoy the self-determination that has been discussed for so many years?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u91	Turkey, which invokes Article 51 of the UN Charter, the right to self-defense, and all relevant resolutions adopted by the UN Security Council, launched a military operation in Northern Syria on 20 January last in order to control the Afrim region. This region was previously occupied by the Syrian-Kurdish resistance group YPG, which considers Turkey to be part of the terrorist organisation PKK, in order to guarantee, still according to Turkey, the return of the original Arab population currently in refugee camps in the Turkish-Syrian border region. According to Turkey, the operation would contribute to the future stabilisation of Syria, which is carried out by the Geneva and Astana processes. The surgery caused a stir. For example, several Kurdish groups, including Belgium, have manifested themselves in order to charge the deaths of innocent civilian victims. There is no official confirmation of reports that Turkey would cooperate in the Afrim operation with Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, related to Al Nusra, which has been active in the field since the beginning of the conflict in Syria. As far as Belgium is concerned, our country has no relations with Kurdish groups or militias in Syria. Some Kurdish political movements in Syria are part of the Syrian opposition coalition officially represented in the peace talks in Geneva, which I recently met, as recalled earlier, with the negotiator, Mr al-Hariri. But this is not the case of the PYD and its armed wing, YPG, targeted by the Turkish operation in the Afrin region. The operation also has no impact on coalition activities in the regions where Belgium is active, which are mainly in Iraq. At the UN on 22 January, the Security Council, on the initiative of France, discussed the issue in a closed session. However, the Security Council has not taken a formal decision on this matter and has not taken a decision on it. Turkey also explained its operation during an informal discussion of the North Atlantic Council on 23 January. During this NATO session and my department's recent contacts with senior Turkish officials as well as with a delegation of Kurdish demonstrators, Belgium expressed its concern about the Turkish offensive in the Afrin region, calling on Ankara to act with reservation and to comply with its obligations under international humanitarian law, in particular with regard to the principles of necessity and proportionality, in view of the possible humanitarian consequences of its action. Humanitarian access must be fully guaranteed. Moreover, priority must be given to the stabilization of the region and to the so-called negotiations of the Geneva process, which could be complicated by this intervention. I have reminded the Special Envoy of the United Nations Staffan de Mistura that we very much hope that progress can be made in ceasefire situations, in situations of fully open access to humanitarian assistance, and of course in the resumption of political negotiations within the United Nations in Geneva. However, we will have the opportunity, in other NATO meetings, bilateral contacts or in other international forums, to revisit the situation and to reiterate our concern about these military operations, which have a disastrous impact on the civilian populations of this region of Afrin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u92	Minister, you are right to point out that citizens are the victims of the operation in particular. This is also evident from the reports in the international media. In my view, Article 51 of the United Nations Charter cannot be an argument for preventive action. In this way, threats can be placed everywhere under that article. The problem is therefore very serious for a number of reasons. I would like to thank you for taking a number of initiatives, but at the same time urge you to remain in favour of Mrs Mogherini and in NATO in the European Union, so that we do not see the issue moved away. After all, it is not just a humanitarian and military issue; it could even be an internal issue if the new fighting in a relatively quiet area such as Afrin created new flows of refugees. That too is a reason to remain very vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u93	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, we can only condemn these attacks. I believe that this must be done at the level of the international community and the European Union. You have also carried the file in this context. Above all, humanitarian aid must also be implemented. Also in this 3D strategy, we must not hesitate to initiate development cooperation to help families, who suffer greatly in this region.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u94	Mr Minister, in some respects the situation in Kurdistan is reminiscent of the situation in the same region before the First World War, when Tsarist Russia and the Ottoman Empire were already involved in the same problem. Clearly, behind all this, there is some kind of tacit agreement between Russia and Turkey about the Kurds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u95	Minister, I would like to ask you about the reopening in Turkey of the trial against human rights defenders, including the local director of Amnesty International. A release had been mentioned at some point, but unfortunately this was not true. Some human rights defenders have been incarcerated since 6 June 2017 and are charged with terrorism. If convicted, they face up to 15 years in prison. We were able to see this during our committee's visit to Turkey. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Can you tell me when your last contact with the Turkish authorities was in this regard? What was the content of this exchange? Since this situation is more than alarming, have you ever mentioned the problem with your European counterparts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u96	Mr Crusnière, I thank you, of course, for your question, which echoes my concern about the general human rights situation in Turkey - particularly with regard to human rights defenders. We have had the opportunity to raise this issue several times in committee. The state of human rights on the ground is discussed at every opportunity that we are offered to engage with our Turkish counterparts at every level. I have not had contact with them in the last few weeks, but I can assure you of our commitment, both on the part of multilateral bodies, such as the Council of Europe, and on the ground. In this capacity, I instructed my collaborators in Istanbul and Ankara to support Turkish human rights defenders through the presence of our diplomats at the trial of the persons in question. Thus, on 31 January, our Consul General in Istanbul personally attended the hearing of Mr Taner Kiliç, President of Amnesty International Turkey, who has been imprisoned since June. Prior to the start of the hearing, she was able to meet with Ms. Idil Eser, Director of Amnesty nternational Turkey, who has since been imprisoned and released, and Ms. Gauri Van Gulik, Director of Amnesty International Europe, to confirm our support. On the same day, our consul attended a hearing at the Academics for Peace trial. In addition, I am also making a public statement to clarify our position on the files in question. In this context, I have explicitly called for the immediate and unconditional release of Mr.Kiliç. It goes without saying that we are discussing, at all levels, with our European counterparts, the question of human rights in Turkey. While it is our duty to try to maintain dialogue on this matter with the authorities in Ankara, in particular through the Council of Europe bodies, it must be noted that these efforts have been unsuccessful. The recent renewal of Mr Kiliç's judgment is a further development which we can call extremely worrying. We had contacts with the Turkish officials responsible for European affairs who undertook to conduct this dialogue at Council of Europe level and with his Secretary-General, in particular. Unfortunately, however, I must note that, for the time being, these dialogues have not led to positive developments on the ground. We will continue to monitor the situation, on the one hand, very concretely during the hearings and possible contacts in Turkey and, on the other hand, to act in consultation with our European colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u97	I thank the Minister for his answer. I invite him to continue putting pressure on this issue with your bilateral and multilateral contacts at European level but also more directly with Turkey. At noon we had a meeting on the follow-up to the External Relations Committee's mission to Turkey. During the debate, we referred to the possibility of tabling a new resolution. We have to meet again after the Carnival holidays. Unfortunately, I fear that a new resolution will be needed in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u98	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Luykx 23283 was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u99	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his perseverance to be present until this late hour. My perseverance also amazes me, because I left Jerusalem at 3:00 a.m. tonight to be with you in good time. Minister, on 26 January De Morgen published an article on progress in a police investigation into threats to Belgians from the Turkish embassy. These threats are confirmed by the police investigation and took place in August and September 2016. On 2 September 2016, I asked Prime Minister Michel a written question about the closure of the Belgian edition of the Zaman newspaper, in a context of threats. I said at the time that it would be particularly shocking that a Belgian newspaper could not appear because of threats from abroad. That would constitute a serious breach of constitutionally assured freedom of the press. In the meantime, Zaman has vanished. Now that the investigation shows that people at the Turkish embassy have indeed committed these facts, it seems to me only natural that these individuals, and by extension the Turkish embassy, should be held accountable for this. The interference in domestic affairs by a foreign public authority.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I understand that it is difficult to meet the culprits when the diplomatic status would be compromised. With regard to the threats now confirmed by a police investigation from the Turkish embassy, I have the following questions. First of all, were any steps taken to call the perpetrators to account? Secondly, what method will we develop in order to prevent the Turkish Embassy from carrying out such reprehensible activities again?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u100	Madam President, Mr De Roover, I am pleased to see that you are reading De Morgen, as well as other newspapers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u101	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u102	Yeah, me too. For further information on this matter, I will have to refer you to the competent authorities responsible for investigating the complaints. They have not been in contact with my department in this respect. You may have more details from my fellow ministers. However, I can confirm that my services, on their own initiative and in the context of their mission to monitor the bilateral relations between the two countries, at the time discussed this unacceptable sedition campaign within the Turkish community in Belgium with the Turkish Embassy, and in particular the implication of a person who acted as spokesperson. The Turkish Embassy then distanced itself from the actions of this person, qualified as being carried out in his capacity as a private person and not as a spokesperson. It was also informed that the local contract with the person concerned was terminated and would not be renewed. So that is a clear response from my department as well as a concrete response from the Turkish embassy. The other person is not known to our ministry as a staff member of the Turkish embassy. In connection with the handling of the complaint, it may be possible to obtain more details. My department has taken an initiative, with consequences for the embassy spokesperson.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u103	Minister, in itself there has been correct action at that time. We must not, of course, be naive in this matter either. The Turkish embassy gives the impression too easily that these are personal initiatives in order to be able to wash their hands in innocence. We know that during a recent visit to Turkey, I have noticed that keeping an eye on people with mixed Turkish nationality abroad is a priority of the Turkish government. It takes this seriously and also devotes a great deal of resources to it. This will undoubtedly require a great deal of energy and effort, including in your services, in order to follow this in an appropriate way, but I think it is particularly necessary to do so. I would like to encourage you in these efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u104	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Dallemagne and No 23426 and Mr 23427 Mr De Vriendt converted 23451 into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Luykx's 23480 expires. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Grovonius and Mrs 23485 and Mr 23486 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u105	Madam President, Minister, the objective of your visit to Morocco and Algeria was to meet with the Heads of State and Government as well as with certain actors of civil society. Many topics were discussed during these various meetings, including the fight against terrorism and radicalism and the formation of imams. Minister, can you give me a debriefing of the various meetings you had in Morocco and Algeria? More specifically, can you tell me whether cooperation projects between Belgium and Morocco but also between Belgium and Algeria in the fight against terrorism and radicalisation and in the training of imams have been discussed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u106	Madam President, Mr Crusnière, I am pleased to be able, thanks to your question, to take stock of these successive visits to Morocco and Algeria and to highlight the open dialogue that I have had with the various officials of the two countries during these two missions. The aim of these missions was first of all to strengthen our bilateral relations and to intensify our cooperation, not only on economic issues but also on migration, security and, as you recall, the fight against terrorism and radical extremism. Regarding the strengthening of our economic and commercial relations, I recalled, as far as Morocco is concerned, the opportunity of the Belgian Princely Mission of November 2018. In preparing for this mission, I have emphasized the potential of trilateral cooperation in the African market, as our companies can benefit from the good knowledge of African markets with Moroccan partners. I have also pleaded in the interest of our companies for more transparency and readability of the new Algerian protective measures which are part of the current difficult economic context in Algeria and which seem to contribute to a certain reduction in our related trade more than likely, this has been repeated several times, to the fall in oil prices. With regard to migration, I have found that both Morocco and Algeria find themselves in a situation which is increasingly similar to ours, as a country of destination or transit. This development allows for a better common understanding of the respective issues. Good cooperation in this area is also on the rise. In the past, these countries were mainly countries of origin for migration. They have become transit countries for migration from the Sahel and sub-Saharan areas. Now they really have become countries of destination. Refugees, or rather migrants, settle in their territory. During these two missions, I also had the opportunity to discuss the strengthening and intensification of cooperation on Africa at the political level, in the light, inter alia, of the latest events in Central Africa, and of the place of Morocco and Algeria in the African Union since Morocco's return to this forum. The fight against terrorism as well as the question of the management of Muslim worship, and in particular of the formation of imams, was on the agenda of my meetings, both in Morocco and in Algeria. Good cooperation between police and intelligence services is essential to meet our common security challenges. My visit was used to further strengthen this aspect of our relations as a follow-up to the efforts undertaken by the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior. Together with Algeria, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on police cooperation was signed in July 2017. The appointment of a police liaison officer is under way. With Morocco, police cooperation is based on a 2014 treaty whose ratification procedure has yet to be completed on the Moroccan side. I have met with the Moroccan Minister of the Interior to stress the importance we attach to it. For both countries, contacts between intelligence agencies are taking place and deserve to be intensified, particularly in the context of the return of foreign terrorist fighters. Together with Algeria, we have agreed to establish an even greater strategic dialogue on security matters at the level of the respective administrations (police and intelligence services, justice, foreign affairs). I also wanted to develop a dialogue with both Morocco and Algeria on the management of Muslim worship, including the teaching of imams. Of course, we aspire in Belgium to the emergence of autonomous Muslim communities harmoniously rooted in our so-called Western society and in conjunction with the values advocated by the European Union, a Belgian Islam in line with the secularism of the Belgian state and with universal values. This does not prevent us from appreciating the Moroccan and Algerian teachings and responses to the challenges we share, in particular the fight against misinterpretations of religion with all the drifts that this entails, especially among young people, with hate speech and discourse leading to violence linked to radical extremism. The Muslim world, particularly in North Africa, has been confronted, before us, with the misdeeds of Islamic religious radicalization and has therefore begun to develop, before us, expertise to deal with it. It was in this spirit of exchange that I wanted to meet during my stay in Morocco both the Minister of Islamic Affairs and the Secretary-General of the Rabita Mohammadia of the Ulemas who is doing important work in particular in the deconstruction of the jihadist discourse and in the promotion of tolerance and moderation. In Algeria, I met the Minister of Religious Affairs in the same way. Both Belgium and Morocco and Algeria face interpretations of religion that, without being violent in themselves, pave the way for radicalism, as is the case with certain currents that could create fertile soil for radicalization. Transparent cooperation between competent authorities on these issues should be explored. Collaborating on the formation of imams to a degree and a framework that still needs to be defined seems to me to be an option worthy of reflection. On the organization of worship, we will obviously work in collaboration with the Minister of Justice, who is in charge of these matters. As far as the training of imams is concerned, there are already collaborations between certain Belgian universities and universities or training centres in the Maghreb. For these subjects, we will continue to work with the Communities which have a special responsibility in education. I conclude by saying that, of course, we do not have the same relationship of the State to religion in Belgium, or in Europe in general, as in Morocco or Algeria, but that does not prevent us from taking advantage of a number of lessons or practices present in these two countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u107	Minister, thank you for all this information. It was interesting to be able to take stock of the situation. I also met last week with the Moroccan Minister of Migration and Moroccans from abroad. He told me of all their difficulties in terms of migration. I think that, too, a European response will have to be found in the coming weeks. As for the fight against terrorism, as far as Morocco is concerned, I had the opportunity to visit with the OSCE Terrorism Committee – which is also visiting tomorrow and Friday in Belgium – the Institute for the Training of Imams. I know you've also visited him. You will have noticed that several African countries are sending imams to train there. France also has a special partnership for a three-year training of its imams. I believe that Belgium should also dig into this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-07-54-commissie-ic819x.u108	Debates of the European Parliament 23498 by Mrs Grovonius was postponed.
