ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u1	Minister, at our meeting on November 9, 2016, I asked you about the 21 measures in favour of the circular economy that you adopted in collaboration with your colleague in charge of the Economy. In your reply, you indicated to me that a monitoring of the planned actions would be carried out and that a first evaluation would be carried out by the end of 2017. In the meantime, you have brought many elements to this committee and even to the plenary. Thank you. Minister, therefore, an evaluation was announced at the time. I guess it happened. It would be interesting if you could give us an account of this. What progress has been made in favour of the circular economy? What further improvements are needed? In a recent communication, you announced "to launch a consultation project in 2018 to allow Belgium to remain a pioneer in the field." Can you tell us more about this consultation process?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u2	Mr President, an update on the implementation of the road map measures was carried out in late 2017 by the Public Health and Economy FPS, as well as the IFDD. I will reply here only for the measures within my remit, as well as for those carried out jointly with my colleague Kris Peeters. Several measures have been or are being implemented at this stage. First, a sectoral agreement was signed in early January between the Federal State and the federation representing the cosmetics sector (DETIC). It concerns the prohibition of the introduction of microplastics in rinse products and toothpastes from 31 December 2019 and lays down modalities for monitoring scientific developments and taking action if necessary. Various projects and studies have been completed or are still under way in order to contribute to the development of a product design allowing better use of resources. They also contribute in part to the work currently being carried out by the European Standardisation Centre on this subject, which will form the basis for future revisions of the different product categories covered by the Ecodesign Directive. A study started in January in order to support the development of innovative economic models through intelligent product design, allowing their dismantling and hence the recovery of their components. This study will include another case study: moving from the sale of luminaire equipment to the sale of lux with the ETAP company. So instead of selling physical objects, we sell light per unit through this company's project. A first report will be available within one year. Next, another study aims to define criteria that a product should meet in order to display that it contains recycled plastic. This study was carried out in 2016. It outlines the first avenues which still need to be worked out and supplemented, in particular by taking this aspect into account in public procurement. Another study aims to develop recommendations for longer product life. This study was conducted in 2017. It sets out various policy options to be discussed within a platform bringing together the administrations and stakeholders concerned. This platform is driven by the SPF Economy. One of the areas of discussion is how to strengthen product repair, in particular by promoting the availability of spare parts. Another study started in mid-2017 to define criteria for repairability. It will be completed shortly, in June 2018. It includes two practical cases: the dishwasher with Bosch/Siemens and the vacuum cleaner with Philips. This study is co-financed by the Benelux partners. Then, a strategic watch at recycling centres started at the end of 2017. The aim is, for different material flows, to identify designs that prevent proper recycling of products. From there, we will discuss with producers and distributors for their own branded products, in order to consider improvements. The first stream analyzed is the PMC. To support healthy recycling, a workshop on substitution of chemicals of concern was organized in November with the Public Health and Economy FPS. Follow-up of the courses of action identified during the workshop is now necessary. Finally, a study on plastic decontamination techniques began in early January. In the coming months, an information platform for the general public will be developed on heating appliances, with the aim of simplifying access to product performance information. The Federal Institute for Sustainable Development (IFDD) is also actively working to integrate the principles of the circular economy into public procurement. Sustainable procurement as a lever for a circular economy has been on the agenda of the IFDD National Conference on Sustainable Public Procurement on 11 May 2017. More than 1,250 participants took part in the conference, and there are numerous collaborations with regional authorities to integrate recycled plastic content into the market evaluation criteria, and with European and international levels to change the authorities' demands towards the provision of services that are more in line with the principles of a circular economy. Most of the actions carried out so far, in particular the studies, were aimed at preparing the necessary elements for the development of other actions. As you can see, the work is going very well. To support this positive dynamic, I have planned to organize different workshops in order to identify complementary avenues of work. The framework is not yet fully defined, but I want these meetings to be inspiring and incorporate the many societal innovations developed in Belgium and abroad on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u3	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, which contains the relevant elements that make it possible to move forward on the subject and to define a framework for work. The studies are numerous and interesting and offer concrete avenues for action. I feel your willingness to realize and value the results that will be achieved, which will be beneficial to our environment. I look forward to the progress of this project with you. Perhaps in the second quarter, we will be able to go back to the framework and find out what action has been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u4	Minister, in October 2017, it was reported that the European Commission had given notice to our country because of insufficient controls on imports of exotic timber. This finding has been shared and denounced for several years by various NGOs. Thus, while Belgium is considered a preferred destination for the export of wood from risk countries, only 26 controls have been carried out since 2013, which have not resulted in any sanctions. At the time, we had already noted their insufficient numbers. It is in the light of this mismatch between the volume of timber imported and the number of controls, but also because of their low quality, that the Commission has opened a procedure against our country for violating the European regulation governing this matter. Minister, do you confirm that since 2013, only 26 controls have been carried out? How do you explain it? What measures are you planning to adopt to strengthen controls and their quality? You had two months to respond to the criticisms of the Commission. What argument have you developed in order to prevent the procedure from moving to a higher stage? Is our country facing sanctions? In addition, Greenpeace has published a report denouncing the illegal export of wood from Brazil, an exotic wood source of trafficking and deforestation in the Amazon. According to the NGO, which relies on evidence of illegal activity, five companies based in Belgium would be customers of Brazilian exporters selling this wood. Minister, I have no doubt for a moment that you have read this report. What is your view on this? What follow-up are you planning to give to the file of the five Belgian companies involved in the illegal sale of wood?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u5	Mr Senesael, your questions were joined after my administration provided me with a basis to answer you. This explains the possible redundancy of my answers. I guess you won't have any trouble with that. In any case, this will give them a certain degree of completeness. As far as your first question is concerned, as I explained in detail at the end of 2017, due to a lack of capacity in the inspection department responsible for federal environmental matters, the timber import controls were carried out, by force of events, by the sole person responsible for the overall policy related to it. However, I significantly expanded and reorganized the inspection service concerned in the second half of 2017. A "species" cell has been created and is responsible for the control of CITES, the Bois regulation - better known as EUTR - and invasive species. It consists of eight people. In addition, this unit is supported by political collaborators from the administration, for example for risk analysis. After a training period, a few inspectors have started logging controls since the end of November 2017. In four months, a period partially devoted to training, 14 checks were carried out, which represents a significant increase over previous years in which, on average, five checks were carried out per year. For 2018, we are considering fifty to one hundred checks which, in terms of number of checks, will put us at the top of the European peloton. According to a report from the Member States over a period of six months (June to November 2017), only six Member States carried out more than 14 controls on their timber imports and only four Member States carried out more than 25 checks, which we are applying in Belgium. So far, the Belgian authorities have not imposed any sanctions under the Bois Regulation, but the situation is expected to change rapidly. Where appropriate, the inspection shall draw up a warning report or a report which may lead to criminal sanctions depending on the seriousness of the offences found. In the event of a warning, the undertaking concerned shall have a specific period of time to put itself in order. After that, a new inspection is carried out and a report is sent to the competent prosecutor's office, which must decide within three months whether to prosecute. If the prosecutor's office decides not to prosecute, the administration may, however, still impose appropriate sanctions. Currently, the inspection service has issued six warnings. In addition, four minutes have been drawn up during recent checks, but decisions on possible sanctions have not yet been taken. However, the Antwerp Prosecutor's Office confirmed its intention to resume a first case. As regards the quality of the controls, they are carried out by means of a periodically reviewed inspection plan based on a well-substantiated risk analysis. Complaints from third parties, such as NGOs, are always dealt with as a matter of priority. The controls are therefore targeted and focus on wood from risk countries. Cooperation with customs, in particular with regard to import data and the Royal Museum of Central Africa, in the analysis of wood samples, is helping in their realization. The competent departments have undergone intensive training and are in close contact with the authorities of the other Member States. In addition, various initiatives are being taken to coordinate the implementation of the EUTR Regulation at European level, in which our services are actively involved. For example, formal and informal meetings of the Commission and the NGO Conference are held at which Member States can exchange information and practices. Finally, my staff took two short courses with colleagues in the Netherlands. In my response to the Commission's formal request, I have mainly used, in addition to some statistical clarifications, the above arguments to show that Belgium has considerably improved the number and quality of its controls under the EUTR Regulation. In addition, I have also proposed policy initiatives such as: 1. the creation of a EUTR round table, a platform made up of representatives of NGOs and the timber sector with the aim of exchanging information and discussing problems concerning the implementation of the Regulation. This platform met for the first time in March 2018; 2. a study of the concept of due diligence in order to provide recommendations for the implementation of the Wood Regulation, both for the authorities and for the timber importing companies. If the Commission considers that our efforts are insufficient, it may refer the matter to the Court of Justice, which may impose fines. However, I am convinced that we are on the right track and that we will not get there. Of course, I will follow the situation very closely and, if necessary, I will take appropriate action. I'll take the second answer if you don't mind. I am indeed aware of the Imaginary Trees report on illegal slaughter in Brazil published by Greenpeace. This is the second report published by this NGO in less than six months. Third-party complaints concerning illegal imports of timber are always dealt with as a matter of priority by my competent departments. I just said it. The Regulation to combat illegal imports of timber is European Regulation 995/2010, EUTR Regulation. The majority of complaints are NGO reports, such as the Greenpeace report. Following the previous report, Blue Stean Timber, the competent inspection responded as it were immediately by checking the two Belgian companies involved in the import of wood from Brazil in particular. These importers were again mentioned in the report just published. The Federal Environmental Inspectorate then concentrated more on wood from Brazil and, in the meantime, several other Belgian companies were checked, including one mentioned in Greenpeace's new report. Of course, the other two importers will soon be subject to control. Various sources, including Greenpeace, indicate that illegal logging in Brazil is still a very current problem. After the decentralization of the implementation of forest legislation in 2006, the problem would have even increased, especially in the States of Amazonia, Pará and Mato Grosso. Due to different forms of fraud at different stages of the supply chain, official documentation cannot constitute a guarantee as to the legal origin of the timber. Recent reports focus on the specific aspects of illegal timber trade, namely violent conflicts and attacks on the local population, as well as large-scale fraud with regard to timber management plans and inventory of valuable timber species, such as ipe, as well as the laundering of illegally slaughtered timber, which would be carried out on a mass scale. Although Greenpeace identifies relevant problems in its reports, the functioning of the burden of proof system does not allow us to say that the Belgian companies mentioned actually imported illegally felled timber. This also applies to the last report. However, the EUTR provides for importers to apply a system of due diligence and due diligence requirements, namely: 1. importers must be able to submit the information and official documents required for each lot placed on the European market for the first time; 2. importers must carry out a risk analysis to verify that the risk of illegal timber is negligible; 3. If this is not the case, risk reduction measures must be taken to reduce the risk to a negligible level. Greenpeace reports state that the risk of importing precious timber from Amazonia is not negligible and also specify where the risks are. Belgian companies importing wood from the Brazilian Amazon therefore cannot deny that there are risks associated with it. Trust in official documents is not enough. A much more in-depth analysis is needed. Therefore, the competent inspection service may check whether importers have taken adequate and sufficient measures to reduce the risk of illegal timber and, where appropriate, impose corrective measures, such as third-party certification, independent audits, cessation of collaboration with certain suppliers, etc. Where appropriate, they shall take the necessary measures when establishing the infringement with a view to imposing effective and dissuasive sanctions. Finally, I would like to point out that my services will pilot, through diplomatic channels, a collaboration with the Brazilian police services that have shown their interest in such cooperation with importing countries, in order to better manage the fight against the illegal timber trade in this huge country on the spot. We will also advocate a coordinated approach to the problem at European level through collaboration between the Member States concerned and the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and reasoned answer to my questions and concerns on the first part of my question. By the numbers, by the collaborations initiated and the arguments you have given, we can be reassured as to the follow-up of this file. As far as the illegal traffic in ipe wood is concerned, I can hear your answer. I also hear your willingness to make a positive change in this matter. But the deforestation of the Amazon is an issue of international and even global magnitude. There are clear impacts on many factors related to our climate and our environment. We also know the seriousness of Greenpeace's studies and reports. I will consider two important points which I encourage you to pursue in the methodology: - on the one hand, cooperation with the police services mainly Brazilian because I believe that this coordination or harmonisation can be fruitful for our companies in Belgium; - on the other hand, the coordinated approach at European level because we are active on our own ground, this will not be enough to put an end to this illegal trade in timber, a global problem. Thank you for continuing your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u7	Minister, I was asking you recently about the progress made in the burden sharing for the period 2021-2030. As part of the debate that was initiated, you said to us, I quote: "Concerning the preparatory work for the burden sharing 2021-2030, the decision was taken, at the last meeting of the National Climate Commission (CNC) on 31 May 2017, to mandate a technical group to carry out an analysis of the elements to be allocated for the period 2021-2030 and a synthesis containing the principles that led to the previous agreement, and in particular the distribution keys applied in 2013-2020, as well as the other options envisaged." The rest of your answer surprised me a bit, since you said: "To date, the mandate needed to start the analysis has not yet been properly validated, which explains why the work of the technical group has not at present been possible." Minister, for what reasons, more than ten months after the decision to appoint a technical group to look at something as essential as burden sharing, has no progress been made? What are the elements that block the mandate required to begin the analysis? Can you give a deadline for the beginning of this analysis?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u8	Minister, I was already asking you on January 6, 2016 about the climate accountability mechanism. I returned to the charge on 29 September 2016 and 4 October 2017. Each time, you told me that the mechanism had still not entered its operational phase. I was asking you again on February 27, 2018 and you were telling me that discussions were under way in an intercabinets group and that you were confident that the climate accountability mechanism could be operational in the coming months. Today I wish to re-do this with you as the end of the legislature begins to point its noses and the cooperation agreement Burden Sharing has passed into Parliament. What is the position of each entity within this working group? When can we expect the implementation of the mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u9	Colleagues, the working group mandated by the National Climate Commission to prepare a pre-discussion report on burden sharing 2021-2030 presented its report to the members of the National Climate Commission at its meeting on 6 December 2017. In accordance with the mandate received from the National Climate Commission, this report includes an overview of the climate and energy issues related to the burden sharing file, and how these issues relate to each other. It also includes recommendations on the elements to be taken into consideration directly or indirectly, the second part of the report containing the principles applied in the context of the negotiations of the burden sharing 2013-2020 to distribute the various elements of the agreement, as well as different options on the basis of the principles formulated in the existing opinions of the CFDD (Federal Council for Sustainable Development) and in the information report of the Senate in particular. So all the tools are there to make progress. I'm going to deepen my answer a little bit before I come to the conclusion. Among the principles set out in the various opinions are the following: - first, the principle of mutuality. Each entity shall verify the possible impact of a measure on the climate policy of another entity and shall endeavour to act in such a way as to enhance the effectiveness of measures at all other levels of power. - Second, the fair and equitable distribution of efforts among entities, taking into account the specificities of each entity, based on objective and transparent criteria. - Third, the overall balance of the respective rights and obligations of the parties. - Fourthly, the accessibility of each of the parties to the solidarity mechanism put in place. - Fifthly, the anchoring of climate policies in a long-term sustainable development strategy that is the subject of a road map with quantified objectives. - Sixthly, the supervision of the work of the CNC by the Concerted Committee. - Seventh, the establishment of an annual monitoring and verification mechanism to implement corrective actions. These are the fundamental principles that we have drawn from our work when we have drawn up the political decision and the legal text which underpins it and which will soon form part of our legislation. Indeed, the parchment was sent to the King on 11 June 2018, after the recent vote in plenary session. These principles will have to be used to mark the work of burden sharing 2021-2030. The members of the National Climate Commission took note of this report, which is also available for consultation on the latter's website. They agreed to use it as a basis for initiating the necessary political discussions at an inter-cabinet meeting. In view of the link in this dossier with the preparation of the National Integrated Energy-Climate Plan 2021-2030 (PNEC), the Presidency of the National Climate Commission, currently under the responsibility of the Flemish Region, has set itself as a priority for 2018 to reach an early political agreement on the allocation of objectives, and then to appoint a legal and technical working group to translate this political agreement into a cooperation agreement. This means that the work will soon begin, at least I hope, since all the basic principles used in the previous consultation/negotiation for the burden sharing 2013-2020 have been developed, are known to all and can now be used as a toolbox, with obviously the work on the PNEC which, as I said to you, has to give a first interim report around June-July 2018 on the state of progress at the level of the various entities of the National Energy-Climate Plan. Since this work is intimately linked, it must be done together. I have no doubt that the Flemish Presidency will do what it announces and begin the work in intercabinets for the negotiation of the sharing of efforts 2021-2030. With regard to Mr Nollet's question, the National Climate Commission took note of the data from the 2015 building sector missions extracted from the regional greenhouse gas inventories at its meeting on 6 December 2017. There is always a very long time between the date of the evaluation year of these efforts and the report in this regard. I was told that, technically, it was not possible to narrow the gap by two years. However, the National Climate Commission has not yet approved the deviations from the trajectories set out in the annex to the special law on the sixth reform of the State, since the members of the National Commission have wished to discuss in advance the modalities of the application of the law and the possibility of a revision of the trajectories pre- and post-2020, in particular to take into account the methodological changes made after the adoption of the law. The members of the CNC decided that this discussion between the four entities would be conducted through inter-cabinet consultation. At the last meeting of the CNC on 21 February, the Presidency – which is, I would remind you, carried out this year by Flanders – announced that it would take the initiative on this subject. There has been no meeting since February 21. The federal government, currently contributing, has no preferred solution to the blocking points and is awaiting an agreement between the federated entities. Obviously, that's where the case stalls. As I have already informed you, the procedure for assenting to the cooperation agreement on burden sharing must be completed in each Parliament, even if it is not yet fully completed, in order to feed the climate accountability fund through the federal share of revenues from the auctioning of ETS emission allowances. In short, we paid the advances. However, before we proceed to formalizing the annual payment for each entity, we must wait until each assembly has voted on this text. I would remind you that the Council of State had insisted on the mixed nature of the agreement, which required the seven parliaments of our country to take a decision. I do not know the progress of the procedure. Having said that, since we lived together, you know that the federal government has practically succeeded. Indeed, I repeat, the scroll of the law of assent - voted here in plenary - was sent for signature to King Philip on 11 June. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answer. After a brief review, we find that we now have the tools to make progress. The basic principles governing the methodology were also detailed. You then tell us that the report is available and will serve as a basis for political negotiation. Similarly, the Flemish Presidency's priority for this year is the distribution of objectives. I thank you, therefore, for this state of affairs. Nevertheless, I will make two reflections, which you do not necessarily have to take personally. I also know that - in a commune, for example - we may want to move forward, if the appointed competent official refuses to act, we are very destitute. In short, I am well aware of the difficulties. However, it is unfortunate that we do not have a more binding mechanism in terms of timing and speeding up the procedure. You said it yourself: when two years pass between the expression of a will and its concresization, it is difficult to explain this slowness to each other. All I can modestly do is encourage you to follow up on the cases and show positive harassment so that we can make serious progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u11	Minister, I will only reply to the Climate Accountability Component. I understand your answer to the upcoming burden sharing. I note a lack of respect for those who negotiated the 2014 agreement, but also for the enforcement of the law. Today is June 2018. However, the 2014 law requires the introduction of a climate accountability mechanism, which is still lacking. This must be read politically; it is not just a matter of officials refusing to act. In reality, this reflects a lack of political will. You are telling us that the Presidency is currently in the hands of the Flemish Region – and that is correct – but you were holding it a few months ago, following a process of rotation. Since the passing of the law in 2014, each entity has had the opportunity to chair this commission. Clearly, there has never been a desire to make it a priority. I therefore ask you to punch the table and put the subject on the agenda of the Conciliation Committee. In this way, we will officially know – not only within the National Climate Commission, for example – what it is going on, why we are stagnating and how to get out of this situation. When you come to explain to us in 2018 that there are problems in the way a part of the law is applied, I find it quite frankly that it could have been amended three times if necessary; what I do not think, moreover. In my opinion, these are just excuses, but if they are made to use them. Ultimately, they reflect a lack of willingness to suffer the consequences of accountability for non-compliance with climate goals. This speaks volumes of what is happening in the various governments of the country, for which this issue is not a real priority. I ask you not only to regret it with me, but above all to put this item on the agenda of the Conciliation Committee. In this way, you will show that you are looking to unblock the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u12	Madam Minister, in February 2018, I asked you a written question on improving air quality. I had a number of partial questions. Some partial questions have not been answered. That is why I am now putting them again orally here in committee. Firstly, you promised three years ago in your reply to my oral question No. 1553 a new federal plan to combat air pollution. Is that a plan? Can we get it? What are the main measures in the plan? Over what period will the actions be implemented in the plan? If there was no plan, then what is the reason? Will you then draw up a plan? Secondly, in June 2015, for a large amount of fine dust in our air, our country was brought before the European Court by the European Commission. Five months later, the infringement proceedings were suddenly closed. I don't understand why and why. Do you have any explanation for that? Thirdly, what do you think are the most important measures to improve our air quality? Fourthly, what measures will the current federal government take in addition to introducing a mobility budget and a price increase for diesel at the pump? Can you tell me what you're doing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u13	Madam Minister, the quality of air in our country is an issue that concerns more and more compatriots. In 2017, the European Commission presented a report in which Belgium does not score enough in terms of air quality. In 2016, on your proposal, the government approved a cooperation agreement between the Länder and the federal level to further improve air quality, each level of policy within its competences. Flanders conducted a major scientific research into air quality in May 2018. A quality measurement was carried out by 20 000 participants under the name CuriousNeuzen Vlaanderen. The results of that measurement shall be published in September 2018. My questions are as follows. How do you evaluate the cooperation between the federal level and the Länder? Is a year and a half after the cooperation agreement needed to be adjusted? What efforts did the federal government make in the years 2016-2017 and in the first part of 2018 to improve air quality within its competence? What further initiatives will be taken in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u14	Mrs Dedry, Mr Janssen, I apologize, but I only have an answer in French. I hope this isn't a problem. I'm sorry. I'll ask the administration to do its job. Mrs Dedry, the original proposal, which focused on meeting our emission reduction obligations, has turned into a draft cooperation agreement, due to the limited residual competence resulting from the sixth reform of the State. The measures listed at the time, namely a mobility tax, compatible with regional emission reduction objectives, gave the Regions, which were seeking additional federal actions, legal certainty. The text is currently before the Council of State. Apart from the allocation of efforts to reduce emissions among the Regions, I would like to point out that the Regions are the only ones responsible for determining emission ceilings. Section 11 includes regional questions on federal actions. Most of the actions have already been implemented. Under this legislature, the federal government has increased diesel excise duties and has undertaken an in-depth reform of commercial vehicles, including an unfavourable differentiation for the most polluting diesel vehicles. These policies currently lead to a lack of interest in diesel vehicles when purchasing company cars. That's why it's working. Market surveillance has been strengthened and the sale of pellets and heaters has been intensively monitored. With regard to infringements of the PEN Directive, in 2017, the Commission confirmed that there was no longer any infringement, so we have made good progress. As far as air quality problems are concerned, only the NOx-concentration infringement remains. The procedure in this respect is continuing, but many measures, including the introduction of the Brussels low-emission zone, have been proposed to the Commission as corrective measures. As far as air quality is concerned, I do not think that there is one or more state-of-the-art measures currently in place to solve much of the problem, as was the case, for example, when lead was banned in petrol. This is where all the difficulty lies; we will now need many measures, with more modest means and fewer ambitions, in different sectors. These are mainly transport, energy production and domestic heating. To be effective, these measures, which are mainly of a technical nature, will have to be taken in a coordinated manner, which obviously reinforces the importance of a cooperation agreement between the Regions and, if necessary, the Federal State. This is to answer the last part of your question. Mr Janssen, collaboration between the federated entities primarily competent to implement the European directives effectively, namely the three regions of our country, is essential. It is on their initiative that cooperation agreements are proposed to implement our international obligations. The deadlines are linked to the interregional negotiation of the allocation of effort. This was validated by the Interdepartmental Conference on the Environment (IEC) in the fall of 2017, while the federal component, which is much smaller due to the division of powers, has been validated by the IEC since 2016. The completion of the correct legal drafting, the ministerial signatures, the analysis of the text by the Council of State justify the deadlines as you refer to them. As a follow-up, our action will focus on market surveillance. Are the standards, particularly those for engines and heaters, sufficient to meet the emission reduction requirements? If this is not the case, how can these standards be strengthened at European or Belgian level? This is the approach that we are applying to the Euro standards for personal vehicles – we are advocating for a better representativeness of these standards to real driving – or, for heating appliances, for which we have stricter rules than the European requirement. In addition, the Federal State has undertaken to review the mobility tax in line with the requirements of air quality and regional taxation. It should be borne in mind that these legal instruments are a response to the obligation to schedule emission reductions and that the measures necessary to achieve the objectives are already being taken, regardless of the parliamentary finalization of these cooperation agreements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u15	Madam Minister, I understand that you are very committed to a cooperation agreement with the Länder. However, I believe that this is contrary to what you said earlier, namely that you would not only take measures at federal level but that you would also take a coordinating role and therefore talk about a federal plan. I may have missed something, but I did not quite understand the European infringement procedure and why it was stopped. I'd like to get the answer to that, so I can look at it in peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u16	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive reply. I notice that the federal government and the federal states are committed to improving air quality. It can always be better, but I think we should first look at what the measures taken are, and then look at what else is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u17	Minister, you are aware that the modern economy is based on the development of digital technology and high-tech technologies. At the same time, global warming forces humanity to reduce its ecological footprint and promote the use of renewable energy. These areas are part of what is commonly referred to as the fourth industrial revolution. This revolution can only be achieved by massive exploitation of rare metals. But the specialists warn us about the shortage of these. Given that they are essential in the manufacture of high-tech technologies and renewable energy infrastructure, the future of our civilization is clearly called into question. Minister, I am aware that this issue is very technical to develop in a matter of minutes. This issue is likely to merit further parliamentary consideration. I would therefore like to focus my question on a more specific point, that of recycling. Indeed, one of the solutions advanced by specialists to slow down this future shortage would be to increase the efficiency of recycling techniques for these metals. Minister, as our country has an excellent reputation for its efficient treatment of waste, do you not think that we should make investments in recycling industries, particularly those related to metals, in order to encourage the development of this strategic sector for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u18	Mr President, I fully agree with you. The energy transition and the digital revolution create additional pressure on certain resources. In order to better understand this issue and to propose innovative solutions, I will gather international and Belgian experts during the second half of 2018 during a workshop entitled "Integrate the challenge of critical materials". Your question refers directly to certain critical raw materials, called CRM, identified at European level for their great economic importance and the risks to supply. Since 2011, the list of materials has been regularly reviewed to take into account technical knowledge and the global economic and political context. Currently, the list consists of 27 materials including indium, cobalt, niobium and rare earths. This list helps to identify priority actions in the areas of trade, research and innovation. CRM is also a priority in the European Commission's action plan for the circular economy. Recycling precious metals such as gold and silver is a major challenge. Due to their low concentration and quantity in specific components, they dilute and diffuse into several plastic and metal fractions during the crushing of waste. During metallurgical processes, they are diluted in basic metals such as steel, copper and aluminum, or are found in slag and recycling residues. These CRMs are nevertheless valuable and can be purified physico-chemically. The higher the concentration of CRM in waste delivered to metal recycling companies – for example Umicor – or metallo-chemicals, the easier it is for them to purify and the higher the benefits they will achieve. They may therefore be interested. Adapting the European CRM-specific recycling target would boost the high-value recycling scale that also produces high-value materials. However, labour costs, the collection of a sufficiently large volume of CRM-containing parts and knowledge of product composition remain obstacles to the development of these activities. Information based on the manufacturer's CRM content statement could make sorting smarter. However, this content needs to be easily recognized by a low-skilled worker – for example by means of a colour code system for rechargeable batteries – in order for sorting to be effective because the time required to detect CRM in a waste stream is very short. The availability of information on the use of CRMs in certain energy-related products, governed by ecodesign regulations under Directive 2009/125/State Council, is under preparation. The aim is to improve the exchange of information in order to promote the recycling of these materials. An example of legislation currently in preparation is the EU implementing measure on ecodesign criteria for electronic displays. The 2017 project requires the provision of information on the indium, which is a CRM. In addition, the European standardisation bodies have accepted a mandate from the European Commission to develop standards on all aspects related to the efficiency of materials in order to support the implementation of the Ecodesign Directive within the framework of product-specific measures. These will include standards that will provide, among other things, a general methodology for reporting the use of CRMs in energy-related products by 2019 and a general assessment methodology for recycling by 2020. I have asked the product policy department of the SPF Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment to follow this work closely and to open the dialogue with the many Belgian stakeholders. I would also remind you that the European Commission is also funding specific research and innovation programmes. Finally, as you know, I also support projects to extend product life by looking at several aspects such as repairability, availability of spare parts and longer product manufacturing guarantees. By using products longer – before they become waste – the shortage of CRM will obviously be reduced indirectly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u19	Madam Minister, the fact that you are announcing that a conference specific to these matters will soon take place proves that you are fully aware of this issue. On the other hand, I see that you have already forged a whole series of instruments for recycling. However, the extension of sustainability is already a partial solution, even if the best waste remains the one that is not produced. Avoiding the production of certain materials with these metals in short supply would obviously be the best formula. Minister, thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u20	Mr President, on the order of business, I would just like to point out to you that I have received a very nice and correct e-mail from the minister's colleague, who told me that for question 26045, the services had not been able to get the answer to the dimensions in time, but that elements will nevertheless be linked. So I'm going to read both questions, but I agree quite well, especially when I'm notified in advance, which allows me to organize myself at best. For question 26045, this will therefore be a little lighter in the prepared part.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u21	Minister, the European Union is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 from 1990 levels. At the next United Nations Conference on Climate Change (COP 24) in Poland, participants from the international community, including Europe, will be invited to review their targets, otherwise it will not be possible to stabilize the rise in temperatures to 2 degrees. Currently, the assessment of the commitments made by the signatories of the Paris Agreement leads us to a warming going beyond 3 degrees. All parties will need to make further efforts to comply with the Paris Agreement. This obviously applies to the European Union. In this respect, a number of European countries, including Germany, France and the Netherlands, to name but a few, have urged the European Union to revise its objectives more ambitiously. The Netherlands is calling for a 55% reduction in European emissions by 2030. My excellent colleague Nollet is well aware of the problem we are discussing in the Inter-Parliamentary Commission. Minister, I would like to know the position of the federal government in this debate. More broadly, can you provide us with an overview of the negotiations for COP 24? Since we have the return of all Parliaments, it is more than interesting to have the current pulse of government as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u22	Mr. President, thank you for your kind words. I will elaborate on both of my questions in view of what I have already said in the introduction. It is known that, in the current state of commitments by individual countries, global warming will exceed 3.5°C, 2 degrees higher than what is provided for in the Paris Agreement. In this context, different initiatives are suggested and taken by different forums and countries. Each country must choose its own side. Here we are, Madam Minister. Even today things are becoming clearer, since the trialogue is under way. Everyone has to take a stand. I would like to know the positions officially defended by Belgium in its various forums. What camp is our country on? I would also like to know the position of the Federal Government, which is different from the position of Belgium as a whole, in the intra-Belgian coordination meetings in preparation for Belgium's positions. I would also like to know the position taken by Belgium at the European Council on 11 June. Monday, you were at that meeting. I checked it because the video was on line. What position have you taken, beyond the on-line meeting, on renewable energy targets: 27, 30, 33 or 35%? Which camp are you on? Have you joined the group of countries that want to respond favourably to the European Parliament's position, set at 35%, or have you stuck to the 27% you were talking about in my previous oral question? I would also like to know the position of the federal government. That is the same question as before. There is the position of Belgium, and that of the Federal Government in the intra-Belgian coordination meetings to prepare Belgium's positions on this particular point. I would also like to know whether Belgium will respond to the call made in Paris on 25 April. Let us not confuse the Paris Agreement, which dates back a few years, with the call made in Paris by a number of countries. I would like to know the position of the Federal Government in the intra-Belgian coordination meetings in preparation for Belgium's positions on this particular point. My other question is specifically concerned with this dimension of the seven countries that met in Paris on 25 April to launch an appeal to raise the European Union's climate targets so that they can be re-established, as my excellent colleague Mr Senesael said, with the Paris Agreement. Madam Minister, why was Belgium not present at this meeting when all our neighbours were there? Will Belgium join this dynamic? How did Belgium respond to this call? Even if she was not present, she received the call. What is your position, Minister of Energy, within the federal government on this matter? What is the position of the federal government in this regard? What do you think of the position of the Netherlands, which, again this morning in the European Parliament, is defending a minimum EU target of 55% CO2 by 2030? During our exchange on 13 December, you announced that you wanted to "enhance our ambitions, not only with slogans, but in concrete terms". Five months later, I would like to know what you have done to enhance, not with slogans, but in concrete terms, our ambitions. How high are you considering this enhancement? During our exchange on 27 February, you told us that your administration was conducting "the first exploratory talks concerning a possible extension to the whole Benelux". The debate on the Dutch proposal to raise the targets to - 55 per cent was discussed. What's your status on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u23	Mr President, in response to your question, at the Paris Climate Conference, the parties decided to organise a dialogue in 2018 in order to establish the state of play of the efforts to be made with regard to the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The IPCC special report on the implications of a 1.5°C warming to be published in October is a scientific contribution to this dialogue. The outcome of this dialogue should inform the establishment or updating of nationally determined contributions, i.e. the national climate plans to be communicated for 2020 and the draft of which will be communicated in 2018. In this context, the European Heads of State and Government, meeting within the European Council, asked the European Commission in March to prepare, by the first quarter of 2019, a proposal for a long-term strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union, in accordance with the Paris Agreement. The Commission will probably present this proposal before the Katowice Conference in December, before COP24. This long-term strategy should serve as a framework for assessing the adequacy of the European target for 2030 and the need for a possible strengthening of this target. A group of seven Member States of which Belgium is not a member (France, Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Finland, Sweden, Portugal) had indeed requested that this strategy also consider an increase in ambition and define a path towards zero net greenhouse gas emissions, in accordance with the Paris Agreement. On 6 June, my Spanish colleague, the new Spanish Minister for Energy and the Environment, Teresa Ribera, also indicated that Spain would also join this group and, according to some indications, Italy would also join it. The Netherlands is taking the lead in this initiative. They are calling for an increase in ambition, i.e. a reduction of 55% in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. However, before defining a new figure for a revised European ambition upwards, it seems to us better to wait for the publication of the IPCC special report and the analyses of the European Commission. Together with other Member States, Belgium participates constructively in the Talanoa Dialoque, named after the traditions of the Fiji Islands, which chairs COP23. Belgium has thus actively participated in exchanges between countries and other actors in this context during the recent negotiating session in Bonn. In response to the invitation to hold Talanoa dialogues at regional and national levels, a European dialogue organised by the European Commission is taking place today. We have been informed that several Member States of the European Union have already organised, or will be organising, dialogues at national level in the coming weeks and months. As far as Belgium is concerned, I am organising, in cooperation with Luxembourg and the Netherlands, a Benelux Talanoa on 24 September in Brussels. I will not fail to keep you informed of the results of this event. In this context, you know that we have signed a declaration between Belgium, Holland and Luxembourg in order to exchange good practice and to have our administrations work within the European framework for the consultation of national energy-climate plans. The adoption of the rules for the implementation of the Paris Agreement, known as the Paris Rulebook, is the second major mission of COP24 in Katowice. Progress had been made at the last negotiating session in Bonn, but much work remained to be done. You know that our Belgian team is extremely efficient and well-known for its expertise in such a work. The discussions are technical, very complex and politically very sensitive. That is why the parties to the Paris Agreement have decided to organize an additional negotiating session, to be held in Bangkok in September, specifically dedicated to discussions on the Paris Rulebook. Given the importance of these negotiations, Belgium remains involved in this process. Mr Nollet, unfortunately I have only one answer to your question No 25959 of 7 June and no answer to your question No 26045 of 12 June. It will be worth it to come back to this because your questions are very specific and I would like to go into the answers. With regard to your first question, the European Heads of State and Government meeting within the European Council asked the European Commission in March to prepare, by the first quarter of 2019, a proposal for a long-term strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in accordance with the Paris Agreement. I have just referred to the group of seven Member States, to which Spain has just joined. I told you that the Netherlands is taking the lead and we are waiting for the IPCC report. My services are analysing a report from the Dutch Environmental Planning Office on the implications of the Paris Agreement for the Netherlands' climate objectives. We want to draw on the expertise of this report and get the IPCC report before we position ourselves and give the impetus at the Belgian level. I will make only one comment because I would like to answer your second question in more detail – possibly in writing. At the European Council and in the informal debate that followed, I experienced exchanges between European countries to try to obtain a unity of view in the head of the European Commission and an agreement – which has not yet been reached – and it turns out that the current orientation is around 30 or 31%. It is therefore far from what some people are demanding and even further away from what the European Parliament is demanding. In order to tell you exactly what has been said, I would like time to write my answer. As far as Belgium is concerned, we have, in the concert of relations between our entities, a difficulty which is expressed relatively strongly by the Flemish Region. Whenever we enter into discussions of consultation to elaborate the Belgian position, we face strong reluctance – and the word is weak! – to advance and advance ambitions. It is also necessary to continue to evolve in interaction with the different levels of power. The Belgian specificity, well known at European level, means that each time we find ourselves with countries in Eastern Europe, which have concrete and less formal ambitions – which, in my view, is problematic. I give you my spontaneous feeling. On the other hand, I will come back to you with a more complete answer as to the technical details which would give a concrete idea of how the negotiations are moving forward for the time being, knowing that, at European level, equalisation is beginning to take place around 30 or 31 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is not a great secret, I am not an expert in this matter and, with great humility, I can tell you that the elements of answer that you bring, we know them. It has been made known through the media or through the various bodies in which each can sit. I'm going to make a little bit more political, minister. I'm sorry for a bit of a chill. As you said, we're still under a lot of pressure. The Benelux Prime Ministers have said this for a few years now: "We want to strengthen ties within the Benelux. We want to work in a common, joint, dynamic and proactive way." The Netherlands, an important component of Benelux, is taking the lead. They argue with force, conviction and arguments for the 55%. Belgium remains the cross arms – in any case it is the impression we have – in this concert of the triptych Benelux. I have the chance or opportunity to be a member of the Benelux Parliament. There is a plea among parliamentarians to adhere to this positive and proactive dynamic. At the level of governments, and in particular of the Belgian government, we feel this chill. As you said, there are strategies in this country, at the level of language communities, which may be different. It is felt very strongly at an interparliamentary meeting when it comes to drawing up a joint declaration for COP24. We feel that in the Walloon Parliament, all parties together, unanimity can be found. This is not the case at the level of the Flemish Region. We invite you to more ingenuity, to more voluntarism, to more ambition so that we can join the countries – which Spain has just joined – that have decided to plead with force and conviction for these 50%. We can make Talanoa. We can give all the names we want to make to the dialogue we want to establish or to what is put on the table. We must be a country with hope in this area, Madam Minister. I strongly urge you to deploy your energy – and we know that you are capable of doing so – so that we are part of the countries of conviction and leadership, and that our statements in COP24 do not place us as the student who remains behind, who does not know how to decide or, worse still, who joins those with far too modest ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u25	Minister, this is a key issue, a pivotal moment until COP24. You couldn't answer a series of my questions. Don't worry, it happens. Can you pledge that we will still have a commission in your presence before 21 July?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u26	With regard to the answers you have given, you have pointed out the Flemish Region, I understand that this is a difficulty that you are facing in the intra-Belgian dialogue. Mr Senesael also referred to what was happening in the Walloon Parliament, for example. But you didn't say what you defended at the federal government level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u27	It is my intention to reply to this question at a later stage and in a technical way, because, in consultation, each one defends positions. I would like to see what is technically the element of consultation that the federal government is putting forward in this dialogue between the entities of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u28	This means that, for the time being, the federal government has not yet taken a position on joining the seven countries, which have become eight with Spain and will become nine with Italy. Do I have to understand that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u29	I mean, 55% CO2 at the request of the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u30	Excuse me for cutting you off, but I'm not talking about the numbers here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u31	You are talking about the union of these ambitious countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u32	What will be the federal government's response?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u33	But this is part of the dialogue. The federal government cannot join an international position issued by centralized countries if its entities do not agree to follow it. So I need to know first what the elements specifically put forward by the federal government are, in the context of the consultation, and then answer that question. The answer you are asking for on the second question will come from that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u34	It is logical: Belgium will defend a position once each of the entities has taken a position. I just don't want to be wrong in saying that the federal government has not yet adopted a position of its own and not of Belgium's own. Is that so?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u35	He cannot take a stand of his own.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u36	Excuse me, but in intrabelgian meetings, he has to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u37	In intra-Belgian meetings, it can do so, but not in international meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u38	I agree, but my question was: has the federal government, in intra-Belgian meetings, already adopted a position?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u39	Mr Nollet, I will ask the question and come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u40	So, as Minister of Energy, you don't know that...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u41	Technically, and very honestly, I don't know. I'm not the one who's taking part in these meetings. The consultations are organised through working groups. Therefore, it is not the ministers who meet to define such a position, as it depends on extremely complicated technical considerations. In addition, a report is being prepared within the framework of the National Energy-Climate Plan. All these questions are intertwined.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u42	Minister, I just want to know where we are. The reason for this stagnation is not necessarily that the government has not yet defined a position, but it is that you remain in ignorance. That's what I'm doing at this point. Like Mr Senesael, I will plead, as long as it is useful. I hope this is all the more so as you have given us important information, announcing the meeting on 24 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u43	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u44	In the pivotal period leading up to COP24, this seems essential to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u45	The question is: what will Benelux do?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u46	In particular Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u47	There you go.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u48	We know the position of the Netherlands, which is the clearest in terms of principles and figures: 55%. They have just said this this morning in the European Parliament. For its part, Luxembourg recalls that it is a signatory to the Paris Appeal. I am referring well to the appeal issued a few months ago and which was heard by eight countries; not the 2012 Paris Agreement. Nevertheless, the Grand Duchy is clear, even if it still has to specify its figures. For the moment, Belgium - and I am talking about our country, not the federal government - is not taking part in the Paris Appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u49	It is not present because it has not yet defined a position on this subject. Moreover, you have seen that Spain has only just joined this group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u50	Yes, yes, so it's always feasible. The advantage is that we can still join the Paris Call Group. Rendez-vous is scheduled for September 24th. So I'd like to re-examine you after the holidays. The aim is to ensure that Belgium's position on this date is clear. I'm going on. There are things on which, yesterday, Monday 11...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u51	It was the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u52	You took a position in the meeting you were attending on behalf of Belgium. As a result, debriefings at European level ranked countries. The countries we have just mentioned are ranked positively for renewables: Lithuania, Luxembourg, Portugal, Italy, Spain and Sweden are included among those who want 35% renewables. We are no longer in the least 55% of CO2.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u53	Which countries did you cite?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u54	I have here the debriefing at European level, which was done by Cañete. These are six countries: Sweden, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Portugal for the renewable component, but not for the energy component, Italy and Spain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u55	Yes, I understand. You see that the Netherlands is not part of it, and Luxembourg is not. I know, but I've lived it as I tell you, and so I see.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u56	You are right to see, as I see it myself. But I'm not talking about CO2, I'm talking about renewables. France is 33% renewable and 32% energy efficiency. Belgium, for its part, is classified - and this is what shocked me in the debriefing done by the European Commission - among the "coal countries", the Visegrád group, with Hungary, the Czech Republic...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u57	Yeah, I told you that myself earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u58	It's still serious!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u59	It's very serious! Every time I go, I see it as something very serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u60	Very sincerely, it reassures me that you consider this to be really problematic. But we can't stay there. I say it with conviction, and I hope I can convince you too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u61	I am convinced of that, but for the time being I am not able to move things forward as I wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u62	I can hear you. I'm going to join Mr. Senesael again. There is one tool for this: this is this interparliamentary conference. No one is bound by a government text, so far, and no one needs a government agreement. We're working on it between parliamentarians. A meeting is scheduled for 25 June. I would point out to our colleagues who will read the report that the MR has a key role to play. If he aligns himself with the position he has defended in the Walloon Parliament, we have a majority in this interparliamentary body to take the position of joining the ambitious countries - without giving any figures yet. The question of numbers is something else. But already, join those who, as now Spain and Italy...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u63	Mr Nollet, I have only one thing to say in relation to this, and it is linked to my temperament, as you well know: I always want to analyse the technical possibilities of achieving ambitions. This does not mean that I have less ambition, on the contrary! But I also do not want ambitions to be issued as some others do, whether in our country or internationally in countries that join this coalition, without any real effort being made. I note, for example, that for greenhouse gases, Holland has extremely strong ambitions and that it is 33 % as regards efficiency and renewable targets. Still, there are amazing things. I'm very wary of slogans. It's in my deep nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u64	It's all to your honor. I have also noted that on the occasion of your reply, you said that you had launched an analysis on the involvement of the Netherlands. All this is very well, as long as we respect the timetable for the Benelux meeting on 24 September, which will require a firm, definitive and formal position.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u65	Absolutely. I'll even tell you that I trust such a platform. I feel like we're in the real world. These three countries have a working habit of more than sixty years. For me, this is a very important step.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u66	I say this with great respect for the uncertainties in your answer, but also for the point of appointment you have set on this subject. That's an important point. The parliamentary dialogue will be part of it. So it is also important as far as we are concerned. However, admit that there is a gap with the position of the Netherlands, which agrees with a 55% reduction in CO2, and which are therefore the most ambitious. This position is translated into 33% renewable, whereas it should normally be said 35.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u67	Still!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u68	But the 33% is still something other than the 27% you're defending, as you said in your previous one-and-a-half-month answer. You said that Belgium was defending 27%, at this stage, for the time being. That was the little shade you introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u69	Yeah, but we could try 30. However, I am not going to move forward because I am the only one involved in this idea. First of all, I have to make a technical-administrative tour of our country's expertise in order to be able to answer you precisely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u70	Of course. But you stated your position on energy efficiency on the 11th: that's 30%. I have heard the reservations, but if tomorrow is 30 per cent in the area of renewable energy, we will not be in the Paris Agreement, nor will we be in the 55 per cent reduction required in relation to the commitments currently made. You'll work, and you'll see by then. I'm just saying that the MR has a shot to play before September 24th. Appointments to Parliament are scheduled for 25 June and 9 or 10 July. I'm just paying attention to you because it's not your role.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u71	It is the freedom of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u72	Exactly. But within this position, we can help you, since you say you are "frustrated" to be classified as coalworkers for the moment, although this is not the exact term you used.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u73	Mr Nollet, we have to find a majority. That's all I have to tell you. It's parliamentary freedom.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u74	We are working very seriously on this, with Mr Senesael and others, and we will continue. The agenda items you provide will be helpful in unlocking things. I hope that Belgium will soon regain a leading role. Indeed, being, as now, ranked alongside the four countries of Visegràd, is frankly shameful in relation to the stakes and history of Belgium. Indeed, it has always appeared in the European cockpit, to take up an expression that the Prime Minister likes. It is here in the wagon of the rejected, far behind the platoon. I'm not talking about those who escaped and shoot the others! I thank the President for the latitude he has given me, given the length of my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u75	I thank everyone for this very fruitful exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u76	Minister, this is a logical follow-up to our discussions. I am nevertheless developing it in order to act on certain details. You threw a famous cold at our exchange on 7 March when you said that Belgium's position in the trialogue launched following the European Parliament's desire to raise the share of renewable energy sources (SER) to 35% in 2030 was to defend the maintenance of a target of only 27%. The only reservation you made was that this was the position "currently" defended by Belgium and that we were only at the start of the trialogue. It is known that the trialogue has continued since then, particularly on 20 March and 16 May. First of all, my question is whether Belgium's position has moved or whether you are still in this position. We know a 30% proposal is being tested. You said what you thought about it in your personal capacity. My question is also about whether Belgium has agreed in COREPER on this proposal or whether we have remained in the camp of the most pastoristic countries at 27%, which can be the position even if it can evolve. Finally, I would like to know whether the planned bilateral between Belgium and the European Commission on 17 May – which was part of your previous reply – has taken place and, if so, what information has been gathered on the part of Belgium in the event of an increase to 35% and to 30% for the 2030 RES targets. We should remember that all the figures that Mr Senesael and I are talking about are figures relating to the European level; they are not figures relating to Belgium. An intra-European distribution will follow. We all know the logic. I wanted to clarify that in my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u77	Mr Nollet, it's always the same question. That is a precise complement to the answer. Informal expert-level meetings between Belgium and the Commission on the revision of the RED II Renewable Energy Directive took place on 17 May and 6 June. According to the Commission, which did not provide concrete and written evidence of what I am going to explain to you, an increase in the 2030 European renewable energy target of 27 to 30% would have an impact on Belgium, which would entail an increase in the costs of the energy system of around 1.6%. A European target of 32% would imply a Belgian target of 21%. These are the figures for what I was saying right now. The trialogue is taking place today and the Bulgarian Presidency wishes to conclude an agreement with the European Parliament before the end of June 2018. So the work goes on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u78	Minister, you say that the cost of a 30% RES energy system in 2030 is +1.6%.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u79	Yes
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u80	Then you say that the change to 32% would be 21%.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u81	This would imply a Belgian target of 21%.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u82	It's not the same thing at all. My question was about what a 30% target would mean for Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u83	I don't know. Unfortunately, I do not have the answer. A little less, I guess.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u84	And the cost increase to 32% would be 1.6% or more?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u85	These are technical data. So I'm giving you what I'm looking at. But I repeat that we do not have a writing from the European Commission. A renewable target of 27-30 and even 32-33 would have an impact on Belgium, which would increase the costs of an energy system by about 1.6%.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u86	So that's the whole thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u87	I do believe that is the whole thing. I'm careful. In any case, it would be worth returning to the subject with written elements. Today's trialogue is due to conclude a meeting of COREPER on 20 June.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u88	Since we have made a commitment to hold a meeting of our committee before 21 July, we will come back to the figures in detail at that time. I hope no technical problems arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u89	I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u90	But admit that this 1.6% should be specified on 30 or 35%, just as the 21% out of 32 in Belgium would deserve details on 30 and 35%.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u91	In addition, Mr. Nollet, 1.6% of what? For my part, I like concrete things. When I am told that this represents such a financial value or such concrete efforts to be made, I will see if it makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u92	And then how many savings does it represent? Indeed, we are also moving towards a reduction in consumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u93	There's nothing to do, if we can't visualize these elements, we're talking "in the air."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u94	That's right, minister! So let's be careful about this and set this meeting by July 21, 2018 to talk about it more precisely and less "in the air" than today, even if I found this discussion useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u95	I did not say that it was useless, but that it was not based on specific elements. Percentages don't mean much. These are percentages of what? Politically, however, the intentions are there, but we have to see what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u96	Madam Minister, thank you for your commitment to come back before the parliamentary holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u97	I take note of the absence of Mrs Isabelle Galant. His questions Nos. 22756, 25631 and 25878 were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u98	Minister, the Office of the Plan recently provided an update on the implementation in our country of the 17 global sustainable development goals adopted by the UN in 2015. These objectives are intended to enable all countries in the world to develop economically and socially without annihilating the environment, thus guaranteeing future generations a high-quality economic, social and environmental future. This assessment by the experts of the Plan reviews the 34 indicators that our country has chosen as representative of its progress in this area. While a number of developments appear to be favourable, it appears that for the 17 indicators with a target for 2030, the current trend will only achieve the target for three of them, perhaps five. Projections also show that the 2030 targets will not be achieved for poverty and energy efficiency and that the trajectory is not the right one for renewables, greenhouse gas emissions and the importance of cars in transport. Madam Minister, following the publication of the results of this review, you argued that we should also see "enthusiastic things". Yes! But in a matter as essential as this one cannot be limited to that. We must act enthusiastically in all relevant areas that contribute to putting our country in a concrete way, beyond slogans, words and good intentions, on the road to sustainable development. Minister, what concrete actions are you planning to take in order to achieve the 17 global sustainable development goals? In this regard, the Planning Office is calling for you to quantify the objectives that are not yet stated. When do you expect to make these estimates and make them known to us? Finally, it appears that you are promulgating a "federal mini-plan" for sustainable development before the end of the legislature. Can you tell us more about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u99	Mr. Senesael, as you note, the Federal Office of the Plan maintains a long tradition of assessment and foresight in the area of sustainable development. Indeed, this is a task that has been legally entrusted to him since 1997. The recent publication you are referring to focuses on foresight through scenarios relating to the evolution of poverty and income inequality, energy and climate as well as the transport system. These scenarios allow us to see potential developments with unchanged policy, with new policies or with predefined objectives. This work shows us the need to change our production and consumption patterns if we are to achieve the goals of sustainable development. Indeed, with no policy change, the scenarios advanced do not reach them. The indicator component of this report, published last December, is less surprising, as it is based on information widely published during the year. Indeed, the government asked the Federal Bureau of the Plan to define two indicators by SDG following the presentation by Belgium of the voluntary national report on the progress of the SDGs, which took place at the High-level Political Forum in July 2017. You'll remember that. It is important to note that, given the independence of the Federal Planning Office, these indicators consist of proposals developed from its own scientific work. However, they cannot be considered as indicators for monitoring GSS by Belgium for several reasons that I will list you. Thus, the definition of "DGS monitoring indicator" represents a long work, still under way at different levels. First, the United Nations is in the process of clarifying some of these and updated its work last December. Secondly, our own statistical experts continue their work within the Interfederal Institute of Statistics. Secondly, this work of statistical experts must meet the work of the content indicator experts on each of the SDGs. For example, statistical experts should meet with FPS public health experts who follow WHO health indicators. In addition, the choice of indicators should ideally be coordinated with the experts of the federated entities, as many DGS are shared competences between the levels of power. Finally, it seems to me that before we define indicators for monitoring the SDGs for all Belgian entities, we should agree on common objectives. The national sustainable development strategy adopted last June is a first step in the right direction, but we will now have to translate these international objectives into the Belgian context in a costed manner where possible. That said, these proposals provide a robust basis for starting discussions on indicators in the coming months. The federal sustainable development report is a source of inspiration, as is the recent gap analysis commissioned by the IFDD to assess the distance between the government's existing commitments and the 169 targets of the SDGs. In addition, the recent voluntary national report for the United Nations last July also contains a great deal of interesting data in order to assess our current situation. With regard to the actions I intend to take to respond to this assessment, I referred to several points in my policy note. You have identified the new avenues that I intend to take at the beginning of the year. In January, I mailed my government colleagues the results of the gap analysis with respect to their skills. I asked them both to complete the inventory of commitments with any missing data and to indicate what measures they intend to take in the coming months to meet the challenges proposed by this evaluation. I have already had the opportunity to make my colleagues aware of this by sending a letter in July 2016 with this inventory asking them to indicate in their policy note how they thought they would contribute to the achievement of the SDGs. On the basis of these proposals, I hope to compile a piece of action covering the end of the legislature – hence the term "mini-plan", since it does not cover the whole legislature – in order to undertake the first concrete measures. At the same time, the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development has developed a series of tools to ensure that federal services integrate GDS into their policies. The inventory work carried out at the interdepartmental conference on sustainable development allowed for ownership of the new agenda and awareness of how everyone can contribute to it. A manual for the drafting of an action plan by SPF has been prepared. Meetings were held on the exchange of good practice between SPFs. It is also envisaged that administrative contracts will incorporate sustainable development objectives. New versions of these contracts are expected in June 2018. Gap analysis can therefore be a source of inspiration in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u100	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The elements you announce to us contribute to a vision until the end of the legislature, with concrete actions. For example, I will cite the manual prepared by SPF and the administrative contracts that are expected to come into being in June 2018. We can only encourage you to continue along this path that you have outlined.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u101	Madam Minister, it appears that of the 157 000 tonnes that enter recycling systems each year, 25,000 tonnes end up with the incinerator. This residue may result from sorting errors but not only. Thus, a study of the federation of recyclers tends to show that another factor is involved in this problem, namely the very design of packaging. Behind the generic term "plastic" are materials which, if recyclable separately, are not when they are married together or even when some additives are added to them. Minister, what measures are envisaged to remedy this situation? Do you intend to contact distributors to encourage them to change their packaging in order to further encourage recycling? Does this issue of sorting for PMCs also arise with regard to glass and electronic components? If so, in what proportion? Are measures planned to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u102	Mr President, as you know, I am very interested in this issue. The study to which you refer is under way. It is led by the Federation of Recycling on my initiative. It has a duration of three years. It analyses several waste streams entering the recycling sector. The aim is, for each of the streams studied, to identify products that cannot be recycled in practice for reasons related to their design and therefore to arrive at recommendations to improve the recycling of these streams. This identification is done directly by contact with technicians in sorting or dismantling centres. This explains the long nature of the study. The first stream to be analyzed is the PMC. The results were presented to producers and distributors and were also discussed with the Regions, environmental NGOs and other stakeholders. It has been concluded, on the basis of these first meetings, that a more structural dialogue will be set up in the coming weeks with the packaging designers, whether at technical or marketing level. This dialogue will take place not only through producers but also through distributors who have an impact on their own brand. The aim is therefore to make them aware of their choice of design and to direct them towards solutions that allow easy recycling. Binding product standards can also be envisaged, but I always prefer to give priority to dialogue between the parties concerned so that they themselves can propose appropriate solutions. Monitoring will of course be put in place to analyse progress and, in the coming months, other flows will be analysed: other plastics, hollow and flat glass, textiles, end-of-life vehicles, WEEE, tires, batteries and accumulators, construction waste, paper and paperboard, small hazardous waste, scrap and organic waste. You can see that the task is likely to be very long.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic920x.u103	Minister, thank you for this answer, which gives me complete satisfaction.
