ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u1	Question No 24258 by Mr Gautier Calomne is postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u2	Minister, earlier on, I saw in the news that you were in Ghent with the Minister of the Interior. On 1 March last, in its annual report on fundamental rights in the European Union, the European Parliament adopted a text calling on the Member States to ban conversion therapies. Organized mostly by religious groups, these consist of a diverse set of "treatments" (testosterone injection, psychotherapy, etc.) with the aim of changing the sexual orientation of "patients". The aim is therefore to make homosexual people heterosexual. Through this vote, the European Union joins the United Nations, which has already condemned this practice on numerous occasions. To date, only the United Kingdom and Malta, as well as some Spanish regions, have legislated to prohibit these conversion therapies. In the world, Brazil and China, as well as several states in the United States, have done the same. Mr Minister, first of all, do we have an idea of the extent of this phenomenon in our country? Then, we have always been – and I'm proud of it – a pioneering country in defending LGBTQI people. One can, of course, think of the introduction of marriage for homosexuals in 2003 – which I took advantage of – or, more recently, the new law on transgender people. Do you not think that once again we could set an example in this area? Whatever the scale of the phenomenon in our country, I think it would be a new strong symbol in the defence of LGBTQI people. What, then, do you think of the opportunity to seize this request of the European Parliament by legislating in our turn on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u3	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, I have taken note of the recent initiative of the European Parliament. It is clear that, as a matter of principle, I intend to support such a motion. Indeed, sexual orientation, gender, gender change, gender expression or gender identity must be seen in our rule of law as individual freedoms to which everyone is entitled and in no way as diseases to be cured. In the context of the reforms of the Criminal Code, attention is also paid to this issue. Thus, contempt or hostility towards a person on the basis of sex, gender change or sexual orientation is incorporated into the definition of discriminatory motive so that offences committed deliberately can lead to an increase in the penalty. In addition, gender expression and gender identity are included in the criteria for protection against discrimination and hate crimes. However, the possibility of a legal ban on certain medical and therapeutic treatments aimed at curing these protected freedoms must be the subject of an approach requiring full legal prudence. Indeed, this prohibition must not lead to perverse effects and thus legally prohibit the transgender patient, for example, from undergoing hormonal or therapeutic treatments that he or she wishes. However, I am of the opinion that this request falls far more within the competence of my colleague, Minister of Public Health, since it concerns both therapeutic practices and the rights of patients who already have legal protection. Finally, I would like to point out that the application of unjustified medical or therapeutic treatments causing serious physical and psychological damage may already be subject to criminal prosecution, such as assault and injury.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u4	Minister, I would like to thank you, as I did at the time of the Transgender Act, for your openness in this matter. I understand that the issue depends in part on the Minister of Health, who I will also question. At the very least, we should look at the new legislation as it exists in the United Kingdom, which until now is still a member of the European Union, and in Malta. We could see what we could learn from it from the interest in setting up a possible project in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u5	Mr President, Minister, in February 2016, Danny Byltjes, an employee of the company Power Climber, stayed in India. Unfortunately, he didn't return because he died there. Officially, he died of cardiac arrest, according to an autopsy report made up in India. However, a new autopsy report prepared in Belgium by a law doctor revealed that Danny Byltjes would have died from the effects of severe blunt bruising, resulting in a major liver rupture and a skull fracture. In addition, a number of organs were missing. In the meantime, the Belgian court started an investigation. However, this research is very difficult. The answer to a series of questions can, of course, only be clarified on the spot. A rogatory letter was therefore charged with the investigation. Apparently, this committee would not be welcome in India, two years after the facts, which is obviously very painful for the family members concerned. An international request for legal aid was formulated through the Federal Office, which would be dealt with by diplomatic means and Eurojust. This procedure is not proceeding as it should be expected. Despite diplomatic démarches, we still cannot count on the cooperation of the Indian authorities. The absence of a bilateral convention on legal assistance in criminal matters between India and our country does not help the cause. Minister, what are the reasons why a rogatory letter is not welcome in India? What stage is the handling of the international legal aid application? What is the possible cause of a slow process of this handling? Can the use of the videoconferencing technique help in this case? If not, why not? What initiatives have you already taken or are planned, possibly together with your colleague responsible for Foreign Affairs, to make progress in this area? How is it that there is no bilateral convention on international legal assistance in criminal matters between our country and India, even though the talks have been going on since 2010? Do you think there will be an agreement on this in the near future? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u6	Mr President, Minister, there has indeed been a lot to do in the media over the past few weeks about the investigation into the death of Danny Byltjes. The Fleming, specializing in windmill technology, died two years ago during a work trip in India. According to local authorities, this was a natural death, but an autopsy in Belgium gave a different light to the case. The man would have been killed in a violent way and also lacked both heart and kidneys. An investigating judge from Antwerp would now like to send a rogatory commission to India, but India does not give permission to do so. There would also be an international legal aid application. I have some very specific questions about this. What exactly has the Belgian Justice Department done since the investigation started in Belgium? What are the precise problems facing the Belgian court with regard to the cooperation of the Indian government? What initiatives have you taken in your capacity as Minister of Justice? Did you or did the Foreign Minister have any contact with your Indian colleague? If so, what are the results? Where are we on the handling of the legal aid application that would be pending? What further initiatives will you take to allow the Justice Department to find out the truth? For years, I have been told that since 2010 a legal aid treaty has been under way between our country and India. How come no agreement has yet been reached? What are the obstacles? When can such an agreement be concluded?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the ongoing investigation, I can only give partial answers to your questions. It goes without saying, however, that this is a situation on which we are very concerned and which is fully committed to the federal court, which gives me the following information. The judicial investigation was opened on 9 March 2016 following the preliminary claim by the federal prosecutor of unknowns for the murder of the Belgian national Danny Byltjes, who died on 11 February 2016 in India. As a result of the death, an autopsy was performed in India, in which no cause of death could be determined. The body was repatriated and again an autopsy was performed in Belgium, in which the law doctor came to the conclusion that Danny Byltjes died from the effects of severe blunt-fouling violence. All possible research actions that could lead to the truth finding in Belgium were carried out as follows: the hearing of the widow and son of Danny Byltjes, the trace research of the trunks, the interview of the aftersales coordinator of the company Power Climber, the hearing of the plant manager of the company Power Climber, the examination of the mail traffic of Danny Byltjes on his mission to India, the examination of the ipod of Danny Byltjes and the reading of the work and private phone of Danny Byltjes. To date, a total of three requests for legal aid have been addressed to the Indian authorities. In May 2016, the investigating judge addressed a first request for legal aid to the Indian authorities in order to carry out further investigations on the ground. A second legal aid application followed at the beginning of August and a third on 12 December 2017. During each legal aid investigation, the Indian Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed that this request was transmitted to the competent authority. There was no response from the Indian authorities, despite the fact that they were informed of the urgency of the request for legal aid. Various interventions by the Belgian embassy and the Dutch liaison officer in New Delhi also remained unsuccessful. The liaison officer was informed that the Indian authorities consider the request for legal aid to be carried out by sending the post-mortem report. The Belgian embassy has recently made additional démarches to the competent Indian authorities to facilitate further contacts. You can rest assured that we will continue our efforts unwaveringly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I assume that those involved have been able to count on the Belgian Justice Department to carry out all possible investigations in Belgium. I also note that the international requests for legal aid are making every effort to make progress in this respect. I can only ask you not to let go of the matter and continue to press for a correct truth finding. I'm assuming the federal attorney will. Minister, did you say anything about the bilateral treaty? Or did that escape me?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u9	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u10	I assume you'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and understand that you cannot go into the details in the light of the ongoing investigation. My questions were therefore rather focused on identifying the means available to the Belgian authorities in general in order to make progress. I think it's a terrible thing. It is, of course, a personal tragedy, but I am deeply disturbed by the fact that a judicial investigation cannot be carried out as it should, due to a lack of cooperation from the other partner. I'm disappointed, too. I thought India had a well-organized government, with a legal system with a rich tradition. I am very sorry that we are not able to work together on such an important dossier, a murder dossier. Mr Minister, what you have said shows that Justice and Foreign Affairs have done what they can, with the commitment of our embassy, liaison officers and three times a question for a rogatory commission. There should therefore be no reproaches about the approach in Belgium. The question is whether we can go even further at the level of ministers and governments, at a higher level, if we cannot go through the level of the embassy. I would therefore ask you, and perhaps also the Foreign Minister, to include it on the agenda for our international contacts. I believe that's what our country should do. Finally, I also had a question about the Legal Aid Convention. You didn't answer that. Maybe you don't have the elements of answer. Apparently, they've been working on it since 2010. What's the status? What are the possible problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u12	I shall return to those two questions, Mrs Van Cauter, Mr Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u13	Will you let us know in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u14	Yeah, I'll do that by e-mail next day. Then you can come back to it, but at least you already have the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u15	It could perhaps open the door and help the concrete dossier forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u16	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 24470's question will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u17	Mr President, Minister, in his edition of 8 March, the weekly Le Vif, in an article on the ambitions of a candidate for the municipal elections of October 2018 in Verviers, states that the Vervietian ASBL Aksahum, which was called a global terrorist entity by the US Treasury in 2003, has not been banned in Belgium. According to Le Vif, this ASBL was created in Verviers in 1993 by Mohammad El Hajjaji and by Jordanian and Syrian Muslim Brotherhood in exile in Aachen. It is the Belgian branch of the Al-Aqsa Foundation, which raises funds around the world, mainly for the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip. Branches were banned in Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Denmark, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, but not in Belgium. According to the weekly newspaper, an investigation by the prosecutor's office in Verviers turned out to be short. The ASBL has not published any accounts in the last 10 years and it appears that banks refuse its deposits because of its involvement in several international reports. Minister, what do you know about this ASBL, its origin, its founders, its social object, its links with the Muslim Brotherhood or other radical groups? What do you know about his activities? Does it pursue activities that could threaten public order, social cohesion, national security? Is it linked to groups of mosques or radical preachers? Why can this ASBL continue its activities in Belgium when it has been banned in other European countries? Do you confirm that she hasn't published her accounts in ten years? Is it legal? Do you confirm that the money collected does not appear on bank accounts? Is it legal? What do you know about the amounts of the fund-raising? Is the TIFC responsible for clarifying financial flows?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u18	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, the ASLN Aksahum, formerly called Al-Aqsa, is known to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. It was the subject of a reactive dossier initiated in 2002 in which very many investigative duties were carried out: investigations - banking and tax - in-depth, telephony, international letters rogatory, coordination meetings at Eurojust, etc. These various duties did not reveal elements of infringements; the file was therefore closed in June 2007. The Liège Public Prosecutor's Office provided me with information that the ASBL had deposited its annual accounts with the National Bank of Belgium as long as it reached the turnover required of it. In 2015, sales fell sharply and fell below the required threshold. The obligation then limits itself to depositing the accounts at the court registry. If the local prosecutor's office finds that an association does not comply or more with the obligations covered by the NSAs Act - such as keeping a case in court including the statutes, an updated list of members and the composition of the board of directors and annual accounts, etc. - appropriate measures are taken to correct the situation. This procedure resulted in the dissolution of eight BLSOs and the regularization of 77 others. I am currently working with the Minister of Finance on a project to improve financial transparency in the non-profit sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer. I encourage you to persist in your interest in this ASBL, which obviously continues to raise funds, which obviously continues to worry and has been clearly banned in all the countries in which it had representatives, but not in Belgium. I'm surprised and I'm worried. You say this file is from 2002 but it's 2018. The parameters and information that the Department of Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office, had access to at the time may no longer be the same as those to which they could have access today. I therefore believe that it would be worthwhile to go into the matter in greater detail, in the light of the threat that radical Islam can present today in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u20	Minister, one of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks concerns the recognition of mosques. Indeed, the recognition of mosques allows for control, including financial flows, and enables the Belgian Muslim Executive to exercise its role and its supervision as a coordinating body. The Board of Inquiry has issued its recommendations for almost six months. Minister, what has been the evolution of the total number of mosques in Belgium since that date or, failing that, between 1 and 31 December 2017, in total and by Region? What is the evolution of the number of registered mosques, in total and by Region? How many mosques are currently in the process of accreditation? What are the obstacles and difficulties encountered in the approval of mosques? How many mosques have been refused approval and, if so, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u21	Mr Dallemagne, currently 83 Islamic communities are recognized in our country: 39 in the Walloon Region, 24 in Flanders and 20 in the Brussels-Capital Region. Thirty requests for recognition of Islamic communities addressed to the Regions on 23 December 2016 were the subject of a favourable opinion, namely 5 in the Brussels-Capital Region, 5 in the Walloon Region and 20 in the Flemish Region. The representative body of the Islamic cult has just asked me to suspend one of its opinions for one of these Flemish mosques following an ongoing judicial investigation into possible abusive sexual behaviour. Last year, only the Brussels-Capital Region recognized three Islamic communities, by decree taken by the government of the Brussels-Capital Region on 19 July 2017. The Flemish Region has withdrawn the recognition of an Islamic community. In the Walloon Region, this is the status quo. With regard to the evolution of the processing of cases of recognition of Islamic communities, the Flemish Region, through the KUL, is currently conducting a study of the criteria for recognition of local cult communities, the results of which are expected at the end of 2018. The Walloon Region, for its part, issued a decree on 18 May 2017 in which the recognition files already assumed by the Walloon government will be updated and additional supporting documents issued. This decree was the subject of an order of execution of the Walloon government on 25 January 2018. The Brussels-Capital Region continues to investigate several cases of recognition of Islamic communities in its territory. Four applications for recognition in the Brussels-Capital Region are being investigated by the Justice FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u22	Minister, you are not quite answering my question, because I asked you what the total number of mosques was. You have answered me only about the recognized mosques, which number 83. According to the figures in circulation, the total number would reach 350. As I understand it, it has not evolved much since it was considered necessary to recognize mosques. The status quo is maintained, but you don't give the reason. This is a crucial aspect of our Committee of Inquiry's report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u23	The answer was implicitly given to you, Mr Dallemagne, since Flanders highlighted the need to examine the issue by ordering a study at the KUL and also because Wallonia took the time to see and refine its recognition procedure by a royal decree of January 2018. As a result, these two regions are lagging behind in the recognitions requested by the Belgian Muslim Executive. So I have just explained my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u24	If I understand correctly, for Flanders, we will only be informed from 2019 onwards, since the results of the study are expected by the end of 2018. So we're going to be very late. This will still pose security problems, as we will not know much about certain places of worship, particularly about their financing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u25	There, Mr Dallemagne, you ask me questions that I cannot answer, because I cannot predict the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u26	Minister, I'm talking about the present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u27	In this case, ask the competent Flemish and Walloon ministers!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u28	It is up to the federal government to take into account the concerns expressed by the commission of inquiry about mosques receiving funding from abroad that are not officially considered places of worship, so that they may be of concern to public order. I am thinking in particular of the threat posed by radical Islam, which could continue to flourish there. I therefore remain concerned about the government. That is why I do not think it wise to refer the ball back to the governments of the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u29	Question No 24409 by Mr Gautier Calomne is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return to the raid on the Brussels non-profit organisation Globe Aroma, which came into being a few weeks ago. I asked your colleague from the Interior first. It seems, however, that I had to turn to you. So I would like to come to the Justice Committee to listen to your answer. A number of questions have already been asked and a number of questions answered. We know that the raid within an action was part of the BELFI project. However, after questions on the Brussels city council and police council, it remains very unclear on the basis of what information that non-profit association had been included on the BELFI list. However, it is the Brussels local police who asked for the action, as Mr Close's answer to questions at the city council shows. It was the Brussels local police who had asked for the action and put the association on a list. BELFI controls are carried out in the context of suspicions of radicalisation. In the meantime, the mayor has also stated that the non-profit association should never have been on the BELF list, which is very remarkable. After all, it is his own police who put the association on the list. So the question is how things could have happened. That is why I have a number of very specific questions. Firstly, what are the concrete criteria on the basis of which local police can include a legal person on a list that will be the subject of a BELFI action? Are there any criteria that need to be assessed in order to include a legal person on such a list or not? Secondly, is there any provision for a control mechanism to check that the criteria are being correctly applied? Thirdly, are you aware of the reasons behind the inclusion of NGO Globe Aroma on the list of legal entities that would be subject to a BELFI audit? For example, it has been pointed out to the city council that there was a suspicion that there would be an illegal tap installation. I'm not talking about a tap to bug, I'm talking about taping beer. That was given as a reason to get on a BELF list. Was the action justified? Fourthly, do you agree with me that it would be appropriate or possible for the P Committee to investigate the way in which and the procedure followed by local police to include certain legal persons on the list? We know that there is an investigation by the P Committee into the actual police action itself. Perhaps your answer will contradict me, but I think it is necessary to examine in detail the way in which local police or local police authorities include legal persons on such lists or not. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u31	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, first of all I would like to remind you of the objective of BELFI. In this context, associations and companies whose involvement in the recruitment of persons for the armed struggle, their contribution to the radicalisation of persons, logistical support for persons moving to a conflict zone, financial support for the families of those who have left for a conflict zone and are related to terrorism, drugs, weapons and false documents shall be audited. BELFI is therefore not used in the search for foreigners without a valid residence permit. If people are found without valid residence permits, they will of course be identified. The actions shall be carried out within the legal framework and within the powers of the departments concerned. In the framework of BELFI, the actions are addressed in an integrated and comprehensive way. All services concerned shall align their actions and cooperate. BELFI has no purely judicial finality and the prosecution does not authorize the actions but, of course, directs the judicial aspects in this matter. Operational coordination is in the hands of the federal judicial police in Brussels. A BELFI list does not exist as such. Each service may, on the basis of its own information, make individual proposals for control and, on the basis of the above criteria, it will then be examined between the departments to what extent an integrated action is appropriate. The control mechanisms are included in the various special legislations applicable to the different departments. An unlawful act may be sanctioned by the court. The prosecution does not intervene, except in the case of possible criminal matters. The action at Globe Aroma was organised at the request of the local police in Brussels who apparently had information in line with the BELFI criteria. On the basis of a complaint lodged, the P Committee is responsible for conducting an investigation into the events during the implementation of the Globe Aroma control action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u32	Minister, your answer did not help me much. You outline very broad what BELFI means, but we already know that. The question is how such an association ends up on that list. You say there are no BELF lists. However, you also indicate that the association was listed at the request of the local police, or that the name was passed on to certain authorities. You say that control mechanisms are in place at all levels. How is it possible that such a non-profit association ends up on that list? What checks were carried out? The mayor himself says that that association should never have been on that list. Apparently, the only clue was the presence of an illegal tap system. Then I wonder why the local police are taking up these legal entities. You can't answer it either. Then the question is, who is going to do this? The mayor doesn't know. You don't know. Homeland doesn't know. No one knows how this association ended up on the list, what criteria have been used and what controls have been carried out or not. The consequences are serious for an association if it turns out that it is wrongly accused. Such an accusation is not least when one receives a visit in the context of a BELFI action. Then one gets the stamp of a place where terrorists are active and radicalism thrives. As far as the P Committee is concerned, I know what it needs to investigate, namely police action itself. My question was more specific. I repeat that I believe that it is necessary to examine very closely the criteria on which certain legal persons are to be selected to qualify for a BELFI control. That must be done in a serious way. It mustn't happen lightly. The association runs into walls everywhere because no one can help them. No one can tell how it happened or who they might be dealing with with their complaints. In my view, therefore, there is still a great deal of work to be done to refine these procedures in the context of the necessary legal protection for citizens and associations who believe it to be good in this society.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u33	Debates of the European Parliament A written question by Mrs Pas has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u34	Minister, the issue of mobile phones in prisons remains important. Now, more and more inmates are using miniature gsms, only a few centimetres large, more difficult to detect. Several months ago, you announced the end of the use of fixed wave jammers in our prisons. At the time, only those in Beveren and Marche-en-Famenne were equipped, and only the latter had a functional device. You announced at the same time as the sweating system, developed and become very effective, would now be privileged to fight against the use of mobile phones in prisons. You also announced the future use of mobile wave jammers. Minister, can you tell us whether the fixed system of Marche-en-Famenne, the only one that was functional, is, ever since, still in operation or has been deactivated? Can you tell us whether the use of mobile sweating and jamming systems is now widespread in all our prisons and, if so, whether their results are positive? Do improvements still need to be made and, if so, what kind of improvements will they be?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u35	Mr Flahaux, I would like to confirm to you that we are currently carrying out the steps to abandon fixed wave jamming systems at Marche prison, due to the numerous technological developments. Operators, in particular, change their parameters a lot, resulting in almost permanent adaptations. This results in a significant financial impact. The cost-benefit ratio is disproportionate. On the other hand, this mobile wave jamming system is not yet on the agenda, but it is envisaged for future new prisons. The sweating system is generalized to all establishments. This control system has already existed in recent years, but its organisation and execution were reviewed at the end of 2016 with the aim of making more sweatings and operating more efficiently. A local sweating team has been set up within each prison and each institution has its own sweating equipment or uses the equipment of a nearby facility. This is for example the case for the two prisons in Leuven or for the establishments in Namur and Dinant. Special training on the execution and organization of sweating was provided to the prison staff concerned. The local sweating team must carry out, in its establishment, a specified number of sweatings per year, according to a prescribed frequency, i.e. once a week in DeRadex sections, in Ittre, twice a month in satellite prisons, in Andenne, Lantin, Ghent, Bruges and Saint-Gilles, and once a month in other establishments. The required number is therefore the minimum number of sweatings to be made. Each institution may decide to do more. The National Sweeping Team of the Support, Buildings and Security Service of the Prison Service carries out monthly sweating checks in DeRadex sections and satellite prisons as well as random sweating checks in all institutions Thus, the 316 sweating operations, conducted by both the national team and local teams during 2017, made it possible to capture 336 gsm. In 2016, 82 sweeping had been organized and seized 186 gsm. This system is therefore satisfactory.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u36	As a result of your answer, I would almost tend to ask you, without you having to answer me, what they do with these seized gsms. Is the gsm returned to the inmate at the end of the imprisonment? Or, are these gsms resold, to the extent that the inmate was caught in violation unless they are sent to the third world? This question is worth it, but I do not oblige you to answer it right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u37	Mr President, on a specific matter which has also been written in the press, I would like to put the general problem to you. The specific case concerns a murder committed on 13 December 2009. After an extensive investigation, the public prosecutor believes that there is sufficient evidence to prosecute a suspect. In its claim of 16 March 2017, the court asked the council chamber to bring the defendant before the court of assistes. On May 12th, the council chamber referred the defendant to the correctional court. The parole board is appealing against this. Since then, the situation has stopped. It is not yet about the substance of the case, just about the procedure. The simple appeal relating to the procedure was still not established before the Board of Appeal. When the victims, who have been waiting for the trial for more than nine years, express their concern about this at the first President of the Antwerp Appeals Court, they are informed that the reason for the interruption of justice in this case is due to the savings measures taken by the Minister of Justice. You will agree with me that it is inexplicable and also incomprehensible that crimes of this kind, i.e. murder, should wait for a trial. Firstly, are the reasons cited by the first President, namely savings from the Minister, indeed the cause of the apparent inability of the competent court to judge this serious crime? Secondly, if no, what is the real reason why this case has not been established for the procedure of the Board of Appeal? Thirdly, if it is a matter of savings, what initiatives will you take to speed up these and similar cases before the competent court? Fourthly, do you not fear that the reasonable period, which has already been nine years, will be threatened by this non-treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u38	I think it is just as important for you to know that criminal proceedings are dilapidated and that the lead times are strictly controlled and controlled. I have discussed this several times with the College of Attorneys General, which closely monitors the passage times of criminal proceedings. If it is a serious matter, with a major impact on the victims and the relatives, I regret even more than otherwise any delay in the course of justice. Your question concerns a specific individual decision, with a power of the judiciary, in which I cannot intervene as a minister. Following the conclusion of the judicial investigation, the court brought a final action in order to allow the Chamber of Inclamation to issue a judgment making a referral. As regards the implementation of the framework of the Antwerp appeal court, I can tell you that 92% of the framework is currently in place. At that time, I tried to limit the number of assists by means of the possibility of generalised correction, at the request of most chiefs of the magistrate. This has led to a drastic reduction in the delay in the courts of appeal in this type of case. For example, since Potpourri II, 27 files have been dealt with by the correctional courts, which were previously required to be assessed by a court of assistants. Since the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 21 December 2017, which, by the way, maintained the effects of cases referred or dealt with before 8 January 2018, more cases will inevitably have to be dealt with by the courts of assists. This Committee on Justice is currently considering the future of the Court of Assists. Yesterday, Tuesday 27 March 2018, the Justice Committee organised the work on the issue of the Court of Assistes. As I recall, there will be hearings here on Wednesday 25 April on the future of the trial of serious crimes. The assessment of the impact of a possible exceedance of the reasonable time limit falls within the exclusive discretion of the court on the substance. So I'm not allowed to comment on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u39	Thank you, Minister. Of course, you cannot comment on specific matters. That goes without saying. Here, however, it is the first President of the Court of Appeal who claims to be willing but unable to do so because of your savings. I'd like to put that to you. Is it true that these matters are not established because the Minister saves too much? You say that 72% of the framework has been completed, which, according to the first President, is not enough. You vouch for the general organization. If such things happen, they will not be helped if you get rid of them by saying that you cannot say anything about the concrete case and the future of assists and that we all need to think very carefully about how we want to see serious crimes tried in the future. Hence my appeal once again to make sure that such serious matters are dealt with, because this is not a traffic accident, and it is not a traffic accident that is being brought to light by the departments within your jurisdiction. This will not be the only case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u40	Mr President, Minister, as you know, too many victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016 have still not received a euro of compensation. We have already discussed this in the Monitoring Committee of the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks. This is clearly unacceptable. Together with the Prime Minister and Assuralia, you have committed the dome representing all insurance companies, that each victim will receive the financial advances to which he or she is entitled, even if legal proceedings have been initiated by the victims. This has been repeated several times in the committee, in the plenary, in the press. It's important. Unfortunately, on the ground, this is not systematic. Even today, there are victims who specifically refuse advances on compensation to which they are entitled. It's a real problem. This morning, La Libre Belgique published a carte blanche d'Assuralia on this issue, repeating that everyone is entitled to compensation, even if a trial is initiated. Recently, I also had contact with the victims' associations, which confirm the problem. This is emergency number one. I believe that this is the priority among all the measures you announced last week with your colleagues, Maggie De Block and Steven Vandeput, in the Monitoring Committee: the creation of the Single Window, the creation of a special section for victims in the Victim Assistance Commission, and the coverage of the increase in legal fees. All this goes in the right direction and is in line with the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, but I really think that what concerns compensation for victims and, therefore, as a matter of priority, advances is fundamental. Today, however, there is a blockage. I don't want to know whose fault it is. I would like to know what you intend to put in place to solve this problem. You have committed yourself, with the Prime Minister and Assuralia, that everyone is entitled to his or her advances, even if a trial is under way, because that is often the obstacle at the legal level. Some lawyers do not advise victims to accept advances. What to do in this case, as it concerns several dozen victims, families, relatives of victims of the attacks of 22 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u41	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vanden Burre, my services have prepared a draft bill to adapt the Act of 1 August 1985 organizing the current system of financial assistance to victims of intentional acts of violence. The purpose of this draft bill is to simplify and accelerate the provision of financial assistance to victims of terrorism through a number of organizational measures. They include, in particular, a reform of the procedure with the Commission, with the establishment of a permanent president, the organisation of the subrogation in favour of the State which will allow the Commission to grant to victims recoverable advances from insurance companies, but also the recognition of a new form of damage, which allows to intervene in the costs of defending victims of terrorism under the specific legal aid. The preliminary draft law will also include provisions to ensure that foreign victims who were not resident in Belgium have advantages equivalent to the national solidarity status which is not directly applicable to them under Article 3, paragraph 3, of the Act of 18 July 2017. I am committed to having my department take charge of this element, since this particular category of victims is not covered by the national solidarity statute, which is a national security mechanism. This issue is relatively complex in that it requires the implementation of a wide range of skills, including the reimbursement of medical care for victims who do not reside in our country. This bill is still under discussion in intercabinet. My goal is to table the text in the House as soon as possible. When these various measures have been adopted, including the possibility of subrogation from insurers after the granting of financial aid, I believe that a certain period of time will be necessary to take up the outstanding cases before the Commission and to grant the advances to all the victims who so request. The first discussions will, of course, be much faster, within a month or six weeks of the coming into force of the law. To the extent possible, the cases of the victims most seriously affected and still facing significant medical expenses will be treated as a matter of priority. A supplementary budget was made available to strengthen staff. As you know, insurers' compensation is not within my jurisdiction. In this regard, I would refer you to my colleague responsible for economic affairs. In order to overcome any misunderstanding, the government is soon organising a moment of individual contact between all victims who so wish and representatives of the Commission for Victim Assistance, as well as experts on national status and the insurers concerned. At this meeting, each victim will be able to meet with these experts individually and ask them the questions she wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u42	Thank you for your answer, Minister. In the Monitoring Committee, you had already announced the text on subrogation. Of course, we will participate in the discussions. In principle, you know that we obviously support this approach, which is again linked to the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry. On the second point, everything related to insurance is in the hands of your colleague, Kris Peeters. My question was about the legal proceedings in progress. Under cover of these proceedings, some victims refuse the advances to which they are entitled. It is essential to organise a moment of exchange between all these victims and the experts, because I think that today it is mainly a question of communication and pedagogy. There are a lot of victims who are not aware of all the possibilities, of all their rights, of the benefits to which they are entitled. They follow, and it's normal, the lawyers around them. This direct contact between the experts, the people of Assuralia, the members of your cabinet, the cabinets of the other competent ministers with the victims, is fundamental, because too many people feel, still today, really lost. De facto, as they do not know all the mechanisms, they do not have any compensation. We all regret it. This is the current emergency. Your initiative in this area is positive. I hope that I won't have to go back to the subject and that the file is moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u43	Minister, together with Mr Van Vaerenbergh, I have been following up on the issue of the temporary ban on housekeeping in the case of intra-family violence for some time now. Since June 2012, a prosecutor has been able to impose a temporary home and contact ban on a mature person whose presence poses a serious and immediate danger to the other roommates. Following such a measure by the prosecutor, the case comes before the family court, which can lift or extend the measure. In 2016, you gave figures showing that in the first three years only 103 offenders of intra-family violence were temporarily banned. This is a small number, given the annual 40 000 to 50 000 reports of intra-family violence. Moreover, the figures showed that in one in three cases the house ban is infringed and that the measure is applied differently according to the district. At that time, the College of Attorneys General was also evaluating the letter on the house ban. In September last year, the report of the college was published. This showed that magistrates often opt for heavier intervention, for example arrest, or lighter intervention, for example police mediation. Apart from that report, an updated version of the COL 4/2006 on partner violence was published in October 2015. As a result, for the first time, police and justice were imposed specific rules in such cases, with particular emphasis on the children involved in intra-family violence. Mr Minister, can you provide more recent figures, namely for 2016 and 2017? How many times was a restraining order imposed by a judicial arrondissement? Can you also provide more information on the subsequent decision of the family court? What initiatives were taken or are still in the pipeline after the publication of the College's report? How will the updated COL of October 2015 be evaluated?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u44	Minister, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu and I have indeed been following up on the problem for some time. The College of Attorneys General has made a detailed evaluation report on the laws on the ban. It formulated practical and legislative recommendations. The practical recommendations were the adaptation of the joint circular COL18/2012 on the temporary house ban in the case of domestic violence, the rationalisation of the administrative procedure associated with the temporary house ban, the formulation of proposals on how the support services will carry out automation and dissemination of the models laid down in the COL18/2012, the promotion of the emergency procedure by the College of Attorneys General in the context of its criminal law policy, the place of the temporary house ban as an instrument of criminal policy and the adoption of new criminal policy guidelines on the temporary home ban by the College of Attorneys General to allow the culture of the public prosecutor to evolve in that direction. Minister, which of these recommendations have already been implemented? Which of them are planned? By when will that happen? The evaluation also proposed the following legislative changes. The duration of the temporary ban would be extended from 10 days to 14 days. The urgency procedure laid down in the law would be adopted as the only procedure. The parties would be allowed to bring any other requests concerning the family situation before the family court during the duration of the temporary ban. The penalty rate in case of non-compliance with the temporary house ban would be increased to one year, so that an arrest warrant could be issued. Finally, non-compliance with a temporary house ban extended by the family court would be accompanied by the same sanction. What progress has been made on the proposed legislative changes, Minister? Are you also planning to effectively transpose the proposals for amendments into legislation? Finally, I would like to join Mrs Lahaye-Battheu in asking for more recent figures on the use in practice of the temporary ban, if possible by arrondissement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u45	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, for the College of Attorneys-General, it is impossible to provide statistical data on oral questions, given the short time span. The recommendations formulated following the evaluation were examined. My administration is currently putting the finishing touches to the preparation of a legislative initiative. It concerns both the criminal and civil law aspects of the home ban. This draft law will be discussed in the coming weeks by an Inter-Kabinette Working Group. I also refer to the new Criminal Code, which examines, among other things, the criminalisation of the violation of the home ban in the context of the punishment of crimes against the administration of justice. In addition, the evaluation and recommendations are also part of discussions at various levels, such as the Inter-Ministerial Conference of Justice Houses and the meeting of the College of Attorneys General with the Länder. It is true that the COL4/2006 provides for an annual evaluation, but this will now be done through an annual discussion on the Crimes against Persons expertise network, not through a formal evaluation study. In the meantime, you will have noticed in the last evaluation that there are considerable regional differences in the application of the expulsion. In some jurisdictions, therefore, the measure is seen to be beneficial, in others very little so far. The results are very positive where they are seen. I mention, among other things, the case of Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for the state of play. I note that you will come up with legislative initiatives. Perhaps I will add some legislative proposals from myself, among other things. To be continued, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will continue to follow up on the issue and look forward to the bill. Hopefully it's in line with our legislative proposals. I suppose it goes in that direction, because the texts also correspond to what the College of Attorney General himself recommended. Finally, I will put a following written question to you about more recent figures, if they are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u48	Mr President, Minister, at a meeting of the Council of Europe's Legal Affairs and Human Rights Committee, the Copenhagen Declaration was discussed. One of the issues raised was the challenge facing the European Court of Human Rights, namely that there are still a lot of cases waiting for treatment and judgment. The draft declaration states that Member States may be called upon to remedy the delay through secondments from their own Registrys to the Registry of the Court. I have the following questions. Are clerks of our courts and courts seconded or otherwise made available by our country? Are you aware of the Copenhagen Declaration in which this is advocated? How many cases is Belgium involved in the European Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, very recently I was in Strasbourg for a thematic debate on overpopulation in prisons and detention conditions organised by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. As a result of this work visit, I also met the President of the European Court of Human Rights and discussed the workload and other challenges facing the Court. The document Analysis statisticique 2017, available on the Court's website, indicates the workload of the Court by country and at every stage of the procedure. For Belgium, 321 cases were pending in 2017. There are countries that temporarily send seconded persons to support the Registry of the Court. Last year a one-year Belgian posting took place within the framework of a European programme. Moreover, there is a very good interaction between both the Court and the Committee of Ministers which follows the implementation of the judgments and our administration. The 2010 Interlaken High Level Conference launched a reform process aimed at defining the objectives of the Treaty and ensuring its sustainability. In addition, it must provide instruments to improve the functioning of the European Court. This work continued in Izmir in 2011, Brighton in 2012, Brussels in 2015 and now in Copenhagen in 2018. In the Brussels Declaration of 27 March 2015, under the Belgian Presidency, I already emphasised the shared responsibility in the implementation of the European Convention on Human Rights. I have recalled the subsidiary nature of the control mechanism established by the Treaty and, in particular, the primary role to be played by national public authorities, both by the executive, judicial and legislative authorities. Facilitating applicants' access to information in relation to the Treaty and the Court, the formation of key actors, providing effective national remedies to respond to alleged violations, and others are very useful in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u50	Mr President, Minister, thank you for this state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u51	Mr President, Minister, the Salduz Act provides that minors may also be questioned only with the assistance of a lawyer. The College of Attorneys-General has now drawn up new guidelines in the context of the extension of the Salduz Act, the Salduz Plus. This allows the police to ask a minor caught on small facts to fill out a form instead of being interrogated, i.e. without the assistance of a lawyer. The Order of Flemish Balies and the Commissioner for Children's Rights oppose this new instruction, as they consider it to be contrary to the Constitution. Since minors are a vulnerable group, the Salduz Act provides that they must be extra protected and cannot waive assistance from a lawyer. The Order of Flemish Balies and the Commissioner for Children's Rights also judge this way. Meanwhile, I hear that the Salduz Plus creates practical problems, absorbs a lot of capacity from the police forces, reduces the effectiveness of the police work and costs a lot of money. According to the police, the rights granted to minors by Salduz Plus would not be proportionate to the facts and reality. For example, for each additional question to a minor suspect, a lawyer should first be called again. Also for questioning a witness, who may also be a suspect, a full procedure must be initiated, in order to get information from a witness in the end. Also, except in the case of arrest, the defendants may not be questioned for more than ten days. These are two concepts of differing opinion. For what reason was this new instruction issued for minor facts with minors? What does "small crimes" mean? Will you withdraw or execute the letter? What's your verdict? What is your position on the two different opinions? How do you assess the constitutionality of this? Is there an evaluation planned? If so, who will participate? When will it be carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u52	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, the Criminal Policy Service is putting an end to its new evaluation report of the Salduz Plus Act. I will soon receive and study this. As regards the questioning of minors for criminal offences, two European directives must be read together. It concerns procedural safeguards for minors in criminal proceedings, which is the so-called Minors Directive 2016/800, which concerns compulsory assistance, and the Access Directive to a lawyer in criminal proceedings, the Salduz Directive 2013/48, which regulates the right to assistance. The Minors Directive does not change the scope of the Salduz Directive but grants further rights to minors. The Minors Directive explicitly provides that the Member States of law may lay down conditions to derogate from compulsory assistance where it would not be proportionate, for example if the person concerned remains free, if it is a minor offence or if the facts cannot give rise to a restriction of liberty. These criteria may also be combined with the consent of the person concerned and his lawyer. Following a note from the Youth Protection Expert Network of the College of Attorneys General, in July 2017, there was a commotion with the Order of Lawyers, which read a violation of the Minors Directive. This led to a consultation with the College of Attorneys General. I refer to my previous answers on the subject. On 8 March 2018, the Youth Protection Expert Network submitted a new note for approval to the College Attorneys General. It maintains that an interrogation of a minor, who has not been deprived of his liberty, remains possible without the compulsory assistance of a lawyer under strictly cumulative conditions. The College of Attorneys-General also insists that the necessary flexibility should be demonstrated for interviews on invitation when setting the date of the hearing, so that the consultation and assistance of the lawyer remains possible as far as possible. The College of Attorneys also points out that many simple and minor facts can be sufficiently demonstrated on the basis of established findings and do not need to be questioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u53	Minister, I understand that an initial evaluation is already foreseen within a very short period of time. As a result of the definition, the small facts do not, in practice, give rise to deprivation of liberty. I believe that we must maintain the balance, in the sense that we must, on the one hand, protect minors and always assist them, and, on the other hand, be open to the smooth handling and practical solution of the problems that arise. We certainly look forward to the first evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u54	Mr President, Minister, minors from 12 years of age have the right to be heard by the judge in matters of interest to him or her, for example on the residence regime. Since the Royal Decree entered into force on 1 June 2017, the minors have been summoned by a letter that is more accessible. That is a good thing, because the forms previously used were not sufficiently adapted to the language of children. In form, this is a step in the right direction. According to content, there is also room for improvement. My colleague, who agrees, and I myself have already asked you a few questions about this. You have already stated in the past that the Family Court Working Group is also looking at the right of minors to hear and any improvements to it. In our ongoing search for improvements in this area, we have found studies that contain interesting information when looking up international legislation and comparative law. In Croatia, for example, minors are not being questioned by a judge, as is the case with us. There the conversation takes place through a psychologist, adapted to the level and age of the child. The interview is recorded on video and then watched by the judge. Interrogation outsourcing to an expert has several advantages. Thus, the judge gains valuable time, but also by assessing the video recording, the opinion of the minor can be interpreted correctly. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, what is your position on such a video recording of the interrogation of minors? Secondly, magistrates must be properly trained and supported to communicate with minors. Can an expert's interview provide a solution to this? Thirdly, do you take these suggestions, both with regard to video interview and the questioning by an expert, for example a psychologist, to the Family Court Working Group?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u55	Minister, my colleague has already outlined a number of things. The interrogation of minors at our family courts takes place on the basis of a mandatory invitation from the age of 12. A number of problems arise. The conversation with the judge is often very short, sometimes barely five minutes. The real problems are not always dealt with in this way. At the time of the hearing, the minor sometimes did not see the other parent months and/or only heard negative cases about that parent or grandparent. That makes it difficult to conduct an objective interview. Sometimes minors get things whispered in by the other parent until they go into court. That also makes it very difficult to properly assess the situation. The interrogations of our family judges are of very different quality. That is why I have a number of questions. What about the training of family judges for such interviews? Is there an evaluation of the way in which they're being interrogated? Pursuant to Article 1004 of the Civil Code, maintenance shall take place outside the presence of any person, unless the court decides otherwise. Is it true, in practice, that there is mainly only interrogation? Or are there often deviations, which means that other people are also present? What are the responses to the new models of invitations and information forms for minors?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u56	The outsourcing of the interrogation of a minor to an expert and the video recording of it is undoubtedly an interesting idea, but I would like to add a few reservations. In the first instance, the question arises as to whether the family judge is not the best placed person to question a minor. After all, the judge is the central figure in the procedure before the family court where the principle of one family, one file, one court is applied. According to Article 1250a of the Civil Code, the family court takes into account all the useful elements contained in the file. The judge in the family court therefore has a complete overview of the file and knows the whole evolution of it. The court can therefore very well assess the questions which need to be put to the minor in order to make a decision, unlike an expert who is outside the file. The practical way in which the minor's interview takes place may vary from arrondissement to an arrondissement. The remark that the conversation is often very short should certainly not be generalised. I should also like to point out that, under Article 259s of the Code of Justice, all family judges must undergo compulsory training organised by the Institute for Judicial Training, the IGO, before they can be appointed to this post. This specialized training includes three modules: three days of family law, three days of youth law and two days of 'hearing of children and minors'. The module 'hearing children and minors' includes the following topics. Firstly, the legal framework concerning the hearing of minors in family matters and in matters of youth protection, secondly, developmental psychological aspects in relation to communication with children and adolescents in which appropriate communication techniques are taught, thirdly, police insights regarding the hearing of minors and fourthly role-playing games concerning the hearing of children and minors. Judges hearing minors shall, like all magistrates, be evaluated in accordance with Article 259noys and undecies and 360ter of the Code of Justice. The evaluation shall take into account the manner in which the duties are performed and shall be carried out on the basis of criteria relating to personality and intellectual professional and organisational capacities. The Institute for Judicial Training has provided for the evaluation of this specialised training in the second quarter of 2018. Finally, I do not have any information on the practices in the various districts as regards the possible assistance of children and the possible reactions to the new models of invitations and information forms. Moreover, as I have already pointed out, practice may vary from arrondissement to an arrondissement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u57	I think we all agree that the quality of such an interview is very important. Such an interview leads to great differences in the future for the children, but by extension for the whole family. So it is and remains very important to bet on that questioning. Training given to family judges should be efficient and more than sufficient to effectively interrogate children. If, in practice, this does not work, for example, because it leads to too much workload or too little satisfaction for children or parents, I think we should also consider alternative ideas. I am thinking, for example, of the interrogation by outsiders, expert people who are used to having such conversations. Justice must be open to that. We also use external experts in other matters. I think they can offer added value here too, of course, on top of the skills of the family judges themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u59	Minister, figures I requested from Minister Peeters on the issue of distance purchase show that in 2017 5 535 notifications were already registered at the free recent hotline, of which more than 2 000 were on the Pamperbox. The company Luierbox offered subscriptions for the monthly delivery of diaper boxes at a competitive price. However, the diapers were not delivered or hardly delivered and over time the company was unreachable. After the FPS Economy filed a complaint with the public prosecutor, the manager of Luierbox was finally arrested for con and a correctional follow-up was given. Through a group claim of Test-Achats, a case was also brought against Groupon, one of the partners or sellers of the Luierbox. I have the following questions, Minister. Has there already been a ruling in this case, both on the correctional and on the group action against Groupon? If so, what is the decision and will the injured be compensated for the damage suffered? If not, when is the verdict expected? How many bourgeois parties have taken part in the correctional case and how many people have participated in the group action? Is there anything Justice can do to avoid this kind of scam in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u60	Mrs Uyttersprot, on the basis of the information I received from the Leuven parquet, I can inform you of the following matters. The FPS Economy received complaints about the facts you cite and prepared a report on 23 January 2017. On 24 January 2017, the Leuven District Court brought an action for fraud and numerous infringements of the Code of Economic Law. On 21 January 2017, a suspect was apprehended, who was later released under conditions. The criminal investigation is ongoing and is aware of normal progress in view of the size of the file. At present, it is not known how many people have already placed themselves in a bourgeois party. In view of the large number of victims, two hotlines were chosen to be created, where victims can register. A first was created in the womb of the FPS Economy, a second in the Netherlands at the National Information Point Internet scam. In addition, many victims have filed complaints throughout the country. For your question on measures to be taken, please refer to my colleague, the Minister for the Economy, and his powers in the fight against such practices of fraud, deception and scam.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that the criminal investigation is still ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u62	Mr President, Minister, in October you proposed your "Court of the Future: more accessible and punctual, and therefore more just." One of the innovations is the provision of a more efficient building park that starts from a new structure, namely a head office and a maximum of two additional branches. Such branch has neither a correct chain nor a cell complex. This lecture led to my question from the end of last year, in which I asked you, among other things, whether I made a correct interpretation by assuming that for East Flanders the correct chain of Dendermonde should probably disappear. You replied to me that this is a reform that will last for a number of years. In your view, however, this did not mean that there was no ambition to start the initial preparations now and to look at where pilot projects might be. You added that the sites mentioned by me may be eligible for this. Meanwhile, the latter was raised by the mayor of Dendermonde, namely that the court will be modernised and housed in a new building. He also announced that the Dendermonde court would even be the pilot project for modernisation, with a correctional court and in a new building. The site of the Dutch Barracks was created. I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the timetable for organising a head office and branches? In your answer to my earlier question, you said that the initial preparations had already been made. Where and how are these preparations already under way? Could you give us a little more explanation on this? Secondly, will a pilot project be launched in Dendermonde, as announced by the mayor? If so, where will this happen? Is there a follow-up to the piste of the Dutch Barracks? What will this pilot project entail in concrete terms? Does it simply mean a redeployment of the infrastructure and/or a redeployment of the service itself? What is the deadline?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u63	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, following on from what I have already explained, I can confirm that the Justice Department is very clearly interested in implementing a new pilot project in Dendermonde. The current housing situation of the judicial services in Dendermonde is inadequate. Justice continues to ask for a good project to be developed in the territory of Dendermonde in the future. If the site of the Dutch Barracks, to which you refer, offers an opportunity to realize this, this certainly seems to be a piste that needs to be explored further. However, the overall picture and its practical application to a pilot project require some preparation and thinking. We are working on this right now. The ultimate goal is to achieve some sort of standard need programme for a front office. However, it is too early to give concrete timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u64	Minister, I take it that there are no real concrete plans yet, but that there is certainly the ambition to tackle the outdated infrastructure. And that is absolutely necessary, the infrastructure is outdated and fragmented throughout the city. We look forward with great enthusiasm to what will happen in Dendermonde.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u65	Joined Questions 24449, 24587 and 24588 by Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu and Mr David Clarinval are transformed into written questions. Question No 24595 by Mrs Annick Lambrecht is postponed. Question No 24605 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u66	Mr President, Minister, the automatic door management system in Tournai prison has been defective for several months. Microcuts have been occurring for almost a year and are due to a problem in the high-voltage cab that requires urgent compliance. The measure put in place at the moment at the prison which acts as a "bis" system or "bricolage" intended to prevent these microcuts does not work. Moreover, on the weekend of 17 and 18 March 2018, the system was completely stopped. As a result, all doors, from the entrance to the inside of the prison, could only be manipulated manually, which, in view of the staff currently assigned to the prison in Tournai, is totally unmanageable. In view of these two factors, namely a manual door system and the personnel framework that is not intended to perform this task, the situation becomes alarming. Indeed, when the system no longer works, it is the visits that are reduced as well as the exits to the meadow and the phone calls. Tension will thus only increase within the inmates, which also tends to deteriorate the climate between the inmates and the officers. Minister, since when has the Support, Buildings and Security Service (SABS) been aware of the malfunction in the management of the doors of the Tournai prison? Will he act urgently to upgrade the high-voltage cabin? Will the automatic door management system be effective in the short term? Could you give me a specific schedule? More broadly, do you not believe that this malfunction poses a significant security problem for the prison and its surroundings?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u67	Mr President, Mr Delannois, the SABS is indeed aware of the situation. Long before the problems encountered, the SABS had taken the initiative to replace the door management system. The request for assistance was forwarded to the Régie des Bâtiments and this file is regularly monitored. Since the weekend of 17 and 18 March, the Régie has been seized of the file and has requested its commitment on emergency credits. In addition, to ensure minimum prison security, other interventions have been carried out, such as the placement of an inverter a interruptible power supply (UPS) last weekend. UPS is a kind of battery that allows you to take over computer equipment in the event of a shutdown on the power grid. SABS also plans to purchase a few spare parts. In parallel, the Régie should provide an UPS of sufficient capacity and announce an investment deadline by the end of this month. All of these interventions are used to temporarily maintain the existing facility pending full replacement, which will take longer. Concerning the high voltage cabin, the start of the construction site is announced by the Régie des Bâtiments in May-June 2018. So the SABS and the Régie took actions for a short-term solution as well as a final, longer-term solution. Finally, I must point out that the SABS is not a troubleshooting service. It is a facility support service for the very technical aspects of prison security facilities in particular. As such, the SABS is the privileged interlocutor of the Régie des Bâtiments
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u68	Minister, I don't know if you know the movie "The Tuch". The main actor, Jean-Paul Rouve, does not lose a bank card, nor two, but a fortnight and he asserts that it is possible. I don't know if the director of the film was inspired by a different fact that happened in Tournai but know that in 1983, in Tournai, it was not an inmate who escaped, not even two but 38! At the time, we had been the laughing stock of the whole world. You know I don't necessarily want this kind of publicity anymore. I understand your answer. You're telling me about the Régie des Bâtiments. Very honestly, by talking about the latter, you don't necessarily reassure me. Recently, I visited the prison and realized that a brand new building had not been used there for months because we forgot to place cameras there. In the prison itself, I saw a huge picture with a series of screens connected to broken cameras. When I'm told that the Régie des Bâtiments will start working, it's a bit like Dalida, I think I'll wait a long time. I'm not at all reassured and the prison staff is no more reassured. I thank you for your cooperation in hoping that you may be able to intervene with the Régie so that they may be a little more serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u69	Any person refusing a right of visit granted by a court commits a crime for the non-issue of a child and is therefore punishable under Article 432 of the Criminal Code. Only a judge has the power to deprive a person of the right to see his child. When the parent exercising parental authority flees the country without informing the other parent, it becomes very difficult for the latter to maintain a personal relationship with his/her child residing abroad. In such cases, assistance may be sought in Belgium from the Belgian Central Authority for International Child Abductions. After all, our country is bound by several international instruments which contain measures to combat the unlawful transfer of children from their habitual residence. These instruments should promote administrative and judicial cooperation between States in order to prevent the parent from fleeing with the child abroad and the new situation that this creates. It still appears that very many parents who bring a claim have little or no result in order to obtain the right to visit. The Potpourri V Act provides for an improvement of Regulation 22/01 of 2013, inter alia, in order to combat and facilitate the fight against child abductions within Europe. I have a number of questions about that. Can you already assess whether the return of children from abroad is progressing faster and more smoothly in the meantime? What steps can the parent who is left powerless take himself? What procedure is followed in the event of an enforced enforcement of the judgment conferring rights of access? What is the average duration? Are there countries with which Belgium maintains a better relationship and where the duration of the solution is considerably shorter than that of other countries? These countries can serve as an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u70	When an international parental child abduction occurs, a person or institution holding parental authority over a minor may appeal to the Belgian Central Authority for International Child Abduction, which is part of my services. The Potpourri V Act has entered into force too recently to have a clear view as to whether procedures can be dealt with more quickly since its application. The foreign central authority should provide assistance in the treatment of return or handling requests, including with a view to obtaining a legal decision as well as its implementation. It is clear that the requests to which the Central Authority intervenes are made on a civil and judicial level. However, the applicant is always free to follow the criminal procedure. For this aspect, the Central Authority always advises the applicants to contact the local police department or a lawyer. If the Central Authority intervenes in a file declaring a return to Belgium abroad, the rules of the other Member State should be applied as regards forced enforcement. It depends on how long this can last from country to country. If the Central Authority intervenes in a file declaring the return to a foreign country in Belgium, the Central Authority shall, in consultation with the competent Public Prosecutor's Office, proceed to implementation. In the first instance, an attempt will be made to proceed with voluntary implementation, for example the minor may finish his school year after which the return will follow. If this fails, a plan for forced implementation will be developed in consultation with possible various actors such as local police. There is no fixed deadline for forced execution. The Belgian Central Authority has the most experience in handling files with neighbouring countries. However, Member States still decide for themselves what their internal procedure is for applying the child abduction treaty. The Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Germany generally handle their procedures smoothly. For example, the overall lead time of the court proceedings in the Netherlands is on average two months from the submission of the application to the judgment. In this context, reference can be made to the discussions currently taking place in the European Council on the settlement of the Brussels IIa Regulation. The aim is to speed up the procedure by setting deadlines, an idea which I myself am in favour of.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u71	... (without micro).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u72	In this context, reference can be made to the ongoing discussions within the European Council on a recast of the Brussels IIa Regulation. The aim is to obtain an acceleration of the procedure by setting time limits. This is an idea I am in favour of.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u73	Minister, I agree with the latter. I had a feeling this was important. When it comes to breaking up the relationship between parent and child, we must try to avoid or at least limit time limits in terms of duration. If we look at lost time, of course, it does not cheer us up. We look forward to initiatives that can limit time when it comes to the lead time for contacts with central authorities, the duration of procedures, public prosecutors, implementation, etc. Time is money, especially when it comes to kids.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u74	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Laaouej has converted 24687 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 24519 was postponed. Merged Questions Mr Maingain's 24525 and Mrs Cassart-Mailleux's 24593 were also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u75	Minister, the law establishing a DNA database Missing Persons was already adopted in 2013. Its entry into force has been postponed on several occasions and finally adopted on 1 July 2017, but that deadline has also been largely exceeded. Technically, everything is ready to start the database, but the services concerned are waiting for the necessary resources from the Justice Department. I don't need to convince you of the need for such a database. For example, there is a disappearance case in which a Belgian man disappeared while scuba diving in France. Some months after the disappearance, a body was recovered, but in order to confirm that it was an effective person involved, a DNA study was obviously needed. The missing person's son gave off a DNA sample for this. If there is a database, one can simply press a button and the data is automatically exchanged with France. We must also do so once and not every time something may be found which may be linked to the person concerned. Since there is no database yet, the exchange of DNA data with abroad could not happen and a separate DNA study should have been carried out that would have been waiting for months, which could have been completed on a few days. I asked about the cost of the database. I was told that EUR 113 000 should be sufficient to make the database operational, hence my questions. What is the state of play today regarding the introduction of the DNA database? After all, it is about adopted legislation. For what reasons was practical implementation postponed all this time? Will you find and use the necessary resources to finally make the database operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u76	Mrs De Wit, on the implementation of the Law of 17 May 2017, with a view to establishing a DNA database Intervenants, of which you were the author, I can say the following. This database will indeed be very useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u77	Mr. Secretary, my question was about the missing persons. My next question is about the interveners. I have two questions. The chairman talked about the DNA database for missing persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u78	The questions were merged.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u79	Mr President, in that case I have another question to ask. Mr Minister, the legislative proposal we submitted on the DNA database Interventions is, of course, also very important. It would allow more efficient research. It could exclude a lot of those involved in the investigation when processing the tracks. Many people come into contact with the tracks, for example police inspectors, investigators and lab technicians. So they often leave their own DNA unwittingly. That was the reason to approve the bill on a DNA database Interventers. However, there is still a lack of an implementation KB to be able to enter that database. What is the status of this database? As far as missing persons are concerned, my question is, in particular, when can the budget be found to enter that database, because that law has already entered into force. Excuse me, Mr President, but I came directly from the Kazachgate Committee and did not realize that those questions were merged.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u80	Now that you have also asked your second question, I will answer both together. Mrs De Wit, on the implementation of the Law of 17 May 2017, with a view to establishing a DNA database Intervenants, of which you were the author, I can tell you the following. This database will indeed be very useful. The interveners concerned and the further rules for the collection and processing of their DNA should be determined in a royal decree. To this end, a working group was set up, consisting of my policy cell, the federal police, the prosecutor's office and the NICC. Several opinions were also sought. During this work, a gap was identified with regard to privacy and the limitation of the finality with which the DNA is collected. The law will therefore be amended in order to examine scientifically, on the basis of a detailed legal and criminological study, the interveners to which the scheme should apply and how the DNA should be stored and secured. This study is currently being carried out by the NICC. This will include a legal and practical comparison with other countries. Various partners will be questioned. These findings are expected for the summer. Regarding the implementation of the Law of 21 December 2013 with a view to establishing a DNA database Missing Persons, I can inform you of the following. This law was passed through a bill. In order to operationalise the database, two personnel need to be trained. The funds to finance them will be released. Meanwhile, we have not been idle preparing the DNA database Missing Persons. A circular letter was issued by the Attorney General's colleague. Processes for the use of the database were established. A technical alignment of the CODIS database was carried out, made available by the FBI for the management and comparison of DNA profiles. The database was technically developed. Once the means of operation are allocated, this database can be operationalised. I am busy releasing the equipment, Mrs De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic859x.u81	Minister, I am pleased to hear that the means of operation are being released so that legislation can have an effect on the ground. Did I hear correctly that there would still be study work for the Databank Intervenants? I'm surprised. I thought there was already an answer to a lot of questions about privacy law. Anyway, I'll wait and see the results of the study. I have noted that you expect it before the summer. Further steps can then be taken in this area.
