ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u1	Minister, several municipalities announce mergers and will soon merge. One of the consequences is of course the name change of some streets and squares. It is of the utmost importance that bpost fully supports these mergers. In the case of a move, bpost applies a three-month period, which seems to be too short for collective address changes, inter alia because it is not a result of an individual decision of the addressee. A possible paying extension would apparently no longer be possible either. I would have liked to ask the following questions. Will you urge Bpost to maximise its support for mergers and, if necessary, will you tighten up the royal decisions in question? For how many months will bpost forward mail to the new address in case of a collective change of address? After that period, can residents request a paying extension similar to the transfer and forwarding service of bpost? Will bpost pass on the collective address changes to the publishers of newspapers and magazines with which bpost collaborates for the distribution? To whom do the postal codes and their systems belong? Does BIPT guard the public character of postal codes in a similar way to, for example, the numbering area of fixed telephony?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u2	Mr Yüksel, in Flanders, 15 municipalities have taken the decision to merge on a voluntary basis in recent months. From 1 January 2019 there will be seven new municipalities: Aalter, the merger of Aalter and Knesselare; Deinze, the merger of Deinze and Nevele; Kruisem, the merger of Kruishoutem and Zingem; Lievegem, the merger of Lovendegem, Waarschoot and Zomergem; Oudsbergen, the merger of Meeuwen-Gruitrode and Opglabbeek; Pelt, the merger of Neerpelt and Overpelt; and Puurs-Sint-Amands, the merger of Puurs and Sint-Amands. Bpost informs me that the company has set up a constructive cooperation with all the municipalities involved in order to ensure that the address changes that inevitably involve such mergers are smooth. Bpost will forward the correspondence of the residents and companies concerned free of charge to the amended address for a period of four months. An extension can, but then the transmission is paying. The changes made to the national register automatically change the address for social security institutions, the family allowances funds, the mutualities, the OCMWs, the occupational accidents insurance companies, the cash for the holiday allowance, the funds for the security of living, the regional housing companies, the Child and Family, the VDAB, Actiris and FOREM. The customer must be responsible for transmitting address changes to all other institutions, utilities, companies or private persons, including the publishers of newspapers and magazines. The municipalities are competent for the address components street name and house number. bpost is responsible for the postal codes and their systems on the basis of the management contract. Postal codes have, by definition, a public character.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u3	Thank you for your reply, Minister. The EESC welcomes the fact that Bpost is involved in these merger operations and, of course, is also able to facilitate them as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u4	Minister, in the context of the new security challenges we have been facing in recent years, in particular terrorism in our country, we have prevented the sale of anonymous prepaid cards for mobile phones and smartphones. Since the summer of last year, every consumer who buys such a prepaid card in Belgium must register and therefore identify with one of the operators. I do not need to convince you or my fellow Members of this House of the importance of the measure. Recently, we found that the system is not completely waterproof in practice. The annual report 2017 of the Ombudsdienst voor telecommunications shows that a plejade of fictitious names ranging from cartoon characters to brand names of charcuterie and incomplete address data are given to obtain such a prepaid card. The ombudsdienst rightly had serious doubts about some registered personal data. The BIPT has imposed a fine of more than 200 000 euros on the British operator Lycamobile for non-compliance with the rules on prior identification of prepaid card end-users in our country. Our security chain is only as strong as its weakest link. I would like to refer to my written question submitted on 7 June 2018, but I would like to put a number of questions to you today. Firstly, are you aware of the problem in general and specifically with regard to Lycamobile? Are there any problems with other operators? If so, which one? How is it checked whether telecom operators actually comply with the rules? Are there any checks with samples? Should operators detect suspected fraud or incorrect data? What is your response to the comments made in the annual report of the Telecommunications Ombudsman? Secondly, do you agree with me that stricter agreements should be reached with operators on prior identification of the end-users of prepaid cards? Thirdly, do you intend to sit with the operators on these matters in the short term? What possibilities do you see for enforcing legislation in practice? Do you think there should be more severe punishment for hard learners? Fourth, how many prepaid cards were registered on 1 July 2017, 1 January 2018 and 1 July 2018 respectively? How many prepaid cards were in use before registration was required? Finally, what is the average number of foreign SIM cards active on the Belgian network?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u5	The rules for the identification of prepaid cards are already very strict and are respected by the majority of operators. Operators who do not or do not apply the rules correctly should be addressed. The BIPT carries out checks on operators, both in the sales outlets and in the operator's database, on the basis of samples. In addition, BIPT deals with complaints from competent administrations in the context of prepaid identifications. For some operators, a report was prepared and presented to the King's Attorney. The fine imposed by the BIPT on Lycamobile is a good example of the punishment of a hard learner and of the possibility of enforcing legislation in practice. If operators remain hard learners, their licence may be revoked. The operators do not need to actively look for fraud. If there are indications or complaints about incorrect data or fraud, the operators must, of course, follow up. On the basis of the Royal Decree, they are obliged to reidentify the customer and inform the competent authorities. As regards the ombudsmen's annual report, the issue was raised only last year. As operators had to identify existing customers by 7 June 2017, incorrect registration data were previously possible. Recently, such cases were no longer known to the Ombudsmen's Service. On 1 July 2017, around 2.8 million prepaid SIM cards were registered. The figures for 1 January and 1 July 2018 cannot be delivered in such a short time. Based on the available data of the number of call minutes in 2017, it can be said that approximately 6% of users on the Belgian network are roaming.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The problem is very close to my heart. I welcome the legislation, of course, but we must also monitor its compliance. I hope that the fine for Lycamobile effectively sets an example for other providers. Such practices must be closely monitored by the public authorities and other services. I am also counting on your services to keep up with this issue. In this way, we can ensure that legislation is properly respected and that terrorists and other criminals are not given free rein on the mobile network.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u7	Minister, postal services play an important role in the economic and social fabric and contribute to strengthening economic and social cohesion. Competition in terms of operational excellence and innovation is appropriate rather than competition on the basis of working conditions or through false self-employment. There are signs that the quality of postal services does not improve. Given the shrinking market, it seems that bpost will remain de facto the only major provider in the coming years. Individual consumers and small businesses deserve protection. They have hardly any bargaining power. Clear objectives and results commitments are an asset in achieving high quality postal services at affordable prices. E-commerce and innovative Internet services are important from an economic and social point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u8	Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the state of play regarding the preparation of the next management contract and what is the timing? Secondly, what framework do you envisage to further improve the quality of postal services? Are you in favour of binding results commitments? Thirdly, how can the enforceable implementation of the management contract be strengthened? What additional sanctions in relation to the current framework will be provided for in the event of non-compliance with the management contract? Will it be possible to impose a financial penalty if bpost fails to comply with universal service obligations and if bpost does not receive compensation for unreasonable burden on the State for the provision of universal service? Fourthly, will you encourage bpost to use innovative services, such as printing and delivery of digitally sent registered shipments, photos, etc.? Fifth, will bpost support the development of e-commerce in our country from both large platforms and start-ups and small webshops? Will you provide for the necessary levers in the management contract? Sixthly, what deadline should outgoing domestic mail packages be brought to the border? Does this deadline allow small webshops to compete with suppliers in neighbouring countries? Seventh, what approach do the other Member States take to reduce the cost of universal service? Finally, when the financial equilibrium of the universal postal service is threatened, will bpost deliver its proposals for amending the postal law directly to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u9	Mr Yüksel, the discussions on the new management contract on universal services are under way. Those talks should lead to a new management contract, which will enter into force on 1 January 2019. Like the current management contract, the new management contract will also pay sufficient attention to the interests of users and the quality of the service will be guaranteed through binding performance commitments, controlled by BIPT. This is accompanied by intelligent sanctions that require bpost to further invest in quality. Even if bpost does not receive any financial compensation for the implementation of the universal service, such penalties may be imposed. It is logical that bpost welcomes digital developments, because digital products and the growth of e-commerce can partly compensate for lost volumes of letter mail. It is also logical that bpost does so for both large players as well as for SMEs and start-ups. The acquisition of Radial, which has more experience in e-commerce services for small businesses, also fits in. The packages collected are usually processed and shipped to the country of destination on the same day. It is a highly competitive market, both on the part of logistics operators and on the part of e-commerce companies, which put high pressure on all actors to provide fast and high-quality service, as an e-commerce company will change operators if the quality is inadequate. For the calculation of costs, work is carried out within the framework of European legislation and the best practices within the EU when preparing the Royal Decree for the calculation of net costs. If the risk of net costs increases, bpost will have to proactively formulate proposals to the government to try to avoid those net costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u10	Mr. Secretary, I have one more question. You say that the new management contract will have to enter into force on 1 January 2019. It's now July 2018. Do you think the timing will be met? Will the government's management contract be approved in good time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u11	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce that no questions will be postponed. We're at the end of the session. Therefore, as we do every year, the questions will at most be transformed into written questions. Please send the message. I believe that the minister agrees with this method, because we must not exaggerate: we will not repeat fifteen questions in October. Therefore, please inform Ms. Jadin who wished to postpone a dozen questions. All she had to do was be present at this last committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u13	Madam President, Minister, at the start of this legislature we decided together to introduce a legal possibility to lower public shares in bpost and Proximus to below 50%. This could be a reduction by selling part of the stake. This could also be the result of a transaction, a merger or an acquisition, with the result that the government share would fall below 50%. There are several reasons for this. One of these is the guidance from the government agreement that public participations should be actively managed in the context of deleveraging. One of your colleagues, Minister Van Overtveldt, has already managed to do so in part by reducing a large part of the participation in BNP Paribas in a very favourable way, a transaction that produced several millions, directly in the reduction of public debt. From an economic point of view, it is also useful to reduce public intervention in the postal market. It may be a very healthy ambition for a postal company to continue to operate in the parcel market, also abroad, but it is not, of course, a core task of the Belgian State to compete with Amazon in the US or to shop abroad. The legal provision allowing for the reduction of public participation entered into force on 12 January 2016 and expires on 31 December 2018. The dumbest thing we can do today is to make a sale when the stock market capitalization of bpost is halved. I don't think this stock market capitalization really represents the current value of the company. Minister, what criteria do you consider to determine the appropriateness of selling public shares in bpost? What elements other than a high stock exchange rate do you consider relevant? How do you evaluate the period from January 2016 to now? In January 2016 you opened the door. Didn't you see a momentum to proceed to a healthy transaction like BNP Paribas? Do you believe that a correct liberal policy is to maintain dominant public participation in a liberalised sector, both at low and high share prices? What will you do with the deadline of December 31st in sight? Isn't it better to move this deadline forward again and not let ourselves put the knife to the throat anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u14	Madam President, Mr Dedecker, the comparison between BNP Paribas and bpost and Proximus is limp. After all, the context in which these companies operate is completely different. Moreover, history as a public undertaking is lacking. In deciding on an operation which would result in the State's share in bpost falling below 50%, the following matters are important: the strategic importance of a participation in bpost, the need for Belgian anchoring, the essential contribution that a company can make in the pursuit of sustainable economic growth, its social usefulness and the impact on employment. It is not intended to sell the share in bpost with deleveraging as the sole motive. Any capital movement that leads to the State's share falling below 50% should fit into an industrial project that strengthens the company's future, facilitates the transition to a parcel and e-logistics company, secures employment and promotes the economic development of our country. Since January 2016, there has been no opportunity to fulfil these criteria. As long as these criteria are not met, the State will maintain the share in bpost regardless of the level of the share price. Indeed, the government's ability to go below 50% is ending. It should be considered whether it is appropriate to extend this possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u15	Madam President, Minister, you say that we should consider whether it is appropriate to extend the deadline. Well, that's definitely timely. It's not a good idea to let us put the knife to our throats by a deadline. We must be free to respond to an opportunity when it presents itself, either a sale or a different type of transaction. We can't let them tie us up. In this respect, we will certainly be taking part in the effort to move the deadline forward for at least five years and perhaps even to carry it off. It's not a good idea to get us tied up. I have a second comment. The history of BNP Paribas and its participation in BNP Paribas, Proximus and bpost are indeed different. It is a different history, but the evolution is, of course, that today it is all companies operating in a liberalised market, with competition, and that there are no more core tasks for the government that cannot be fulfilled through the award of a public service contract. The time has passed for us to keep mordicus state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u16	Minister, in autumn 2017, Parliament approved your draft law on postal services, with the aim of further developing the necessary liberalisation of that sector. The impact of the interventions will be cleared in the coming months. Maybe it has been partially cleared out in the period between January and July. My question dates back to May, by the way. Minister, in what period will you provide for an evaluation of the postal law? What criteria will you use?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u17	The Postal Act entered into force in January this year. The postal law itself does not provide for an evaluation or a deadline. I suggest that that law should work for a certain period of time first. I assume that an evaluation of the postal law will no longer fall within this period of government. On what basis is it to be evaluated, the Minister responsible will determine at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u18	Thank you for your answer, Minister, but I am somewhat surprised. The fact that an evaluation will no longer be carried out in this legislative period seems obvious to me, but we have nevertheless had a number of objectives in mind in the creation of the postal law. The most obvious and logical thing is, of course, that we make an ex-post evaluation based on our objectives. Some of these objectives seem to me to be further opening up the postal market, boosting competition, creating jobs for new or growing companies and creating new players who can offer a better service at a lower price for citizens and SMEs. I'm surprised you don't see any criteria in that. These seem to me to be the criteria that we will have to apply in the event of a possible evaluation of the postal law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u19	Minister, over the past few weeks, the CEO of bpost has expressed some wishes through the press and explained them in this House. I think that was a very good meeting and a very good explanation. There were a number of requests regarding the flexibility of the postal market, including some of the older proposals that we all remember. A number of necessary measures have been advocated for some time to safeguard the profitability of the shrinking mail market. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, one of the most concrete proposals is a possible reduction in the number of mailboxes and a distinction between prior and non-priority consignments. What is your position on this? Secondly, what is your position on the possible abolition of daily postal services in places where there is no demand on that day? There was no mention of geographical criteria, but of demand criteria. How do you see that? From when do you consider the conditions fulfilled, as indicated in the new Postal Act, which allow an exception to the obligation of daily delivery?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u20	Mr Dedecker, at the hearing in the Infrastructure Committee, the CEO put forward a number of proposals concerning the adjustment of the network of red mailboxes or the extension of the range of products to a non-priority service. The principle of collection, sorting and distribution of correspondence at least five days a week throughout the territory of the Empire, involving all residences, remains a guaranteed principle. In order to safeguard the profitability and the future of the company, bpost must always find a balance between, on the one hand, the legal framework and the quality of the service offered and, on the other hand, the reality of the falling mail volumes. This seems to me to be the only way to maintain a high-level universal service, without having to rely on public resources, and to finance this universal service. In any case, in the discussion on the management contract, there are no changes to the coverage that should be provided by letterboxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You make it very clear that it must be the ambition not to ask taxpayers for contributions to the universal service. I think this is an important principle. We cannot, after all, invest taxpayers' money in something where market demand has declined so much. Of course, we must keep the universal service as strong as possible without state intervention. That is why I call for some flexibility, especially with regard to red mailboxes and the provision of services on the basis of administrative criteria rather than market criteria. I think that we should abandon these administrative criteria and look much more closely at what citizens and consumers are asking for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u22	Minister, in the case of bpost, strikes cause inconvenience, because letters can only be delivered later. Bpost invokes force majeure in order to refuse compensation. However, the question arises as to how far the holding may go in that refusal. For example, we have heard that obituaries were introduced on Tuesday 15 May 2018 with the aim of informing people of a funeral on Saturday 19 May 2018. In some cases, the letters were only delivered on Wednesday 23 May 2018. Some letters have not even arrived then, on 23 May 2018 and thus a while after the funeral. Of course, that is a very painful matter for those concerned. Even when we charge the strike day of 16 May 2018 and the holiday of 21 May 2018, delivery has only taken place after three working days, while the ambition of bpost is to take buses on day + 1. Anyone who complains to bpost about this will receive a rather dry message from bpost stating that there can be no compensation for force majeure. Meanwhile, Bpost announced through official communication that there were a number of strikers both in the sorting centres and in the transport, but that there were no blockades and so the operations continued. Because of fewer staff, fewer letters and packages have also reached the distribution centres. Thus the message ended. In addition, in Distripost's general terms and conditions on obituaries, Bpost states that the distripost shipment is available at the retail offices for all customers who wish to report a death and that it will be dealt with regardless of bpost's planning capacity. In other words, even if there is less capacity, some priority will be given to obituaries, which is quite important. First, how many complaints were submitted to bpost following the strike day of 16 May 2018? Secondly, how many complaints have reported longer delays than one day? Thirdly, how many complaints did Bpost rely on force majeure due to strike and no compensation or compensation granted? Fourthly, were there any local strikes at bpost on Thursday 17 May 2018 or Friday 18 May 2018? If so, how many obstacles did they cause? Fifthly, to what extent can there be force majeure at all when bpost states in its own communication that the operations were simply carried out and the company should have complied with its own general terms and conditions and should have given priority to such messages? Sixth, can bpost rely on force majeure due to strike, if a delay takes longer than the number of days stopped? I assume that if there is no strike award, everything will be thrown into the sorting machine the next day and handed out. Therefore, the impact of a strike should not be overestimated. Seventh, to what extent can strikes be regarded as force majeure at all? Are there circumstances for which the company itself bears no responsibility? So is it something that happens to the company, like a natural disaster? After all, a distinction can be made between irresponsible wild strikes and announced strikes. A good social environment is, of course, not only the responsibility of the trade unions but also of bpost. Finally, to what extent do you think the time has come for public undertakings which have a de facto monopoly on a particular service, such as bpost, to provide a guaranteed service by analogy with rail? Indeed, a monopoly includes certain responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u23	On 16 May last, there was a trade union day against the government's pension policy. As was the case in other companies, there were a number of participants at bpost. However, although most of the work could continue, there was a delay in the distribution, as fewer letters and packages were delivered to the mail centres. Bpost tells me that there is no precise figure of the number of complaints about delays that can only be related to the day of action of 16 May. Moreover, the number of absolute complaints is not really relevant, as this must always be linked to the volume processed. Therefore, the number of customer contacts per ten thousand delivered is always looked at. The day of action of 16 May did not show an absolute increase in this area. If a strike is the result of internal business matters, Bpost will not rely on force majeure, as in such cases the responsibility of the company cannot be denied. In the case in question, the action day was held for reasons outside the company's responsibility, which led to force majeure being invoked. On 17 and 18 May there were no strike actions at bpost. Since bpost operates in a liberalised European postal and parcel market, I am not considering carrying out a mandatory minimum service. Finally, without details of the place of issue or address, bpost cannot initiate an in-depth investigation into the specific case of the obituary referred to in the question. In any case, Bpost regrets the particularly painful incident. Such a delay is indeed unacceptable. The company wishes to apologize for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, in which you distinguish between situations where force majeure is invoked or not. In my view, it is correct for Bpost not to invoke force majeure in the event of a strike involving its own operations. Nevertheless, it seems to me that it is a problem that a policy of government has been stopped again and that citizens, businesses and consumers are the victims of it, in particular the company bpost. You say that you have no ambitions for guaranteed services, as the company operates in a liberalised market. This is linked to my previous question, namely what has been liberalised and to what extent there is genuine competition. Competitors need to use bpost's basic infrastructure for a piece. This is similar to the competitors of SNCB using the tracks of Infrabel. Therefore, there is still a certain monopoly, so that the debate on the guaranteed provision of services can be held. As long as there is no real competition, I believe that the other debate will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u25	Madam President, Minister, Proximus has launched the Epic packages, aimed at young people, where use of social media and, in the more expensive packages, also music streaming does not count in the normally used data limit of 3 gigabytes. In this context, the notion of "not counting" is somewhat misleading, since this applies only to the first 20 gigabytes consumed, because those who exceed that amount are still outside the bundle and are charged strangulation rates in comparison to the normal bundles. In the past, Proximus has already experimented with similar possibilities, which were found to be valid by the BIPT, since there was no obstacle or negative discrimination against certain service providers or distortion of competition. I agree with that reasoning. The Epic offer also received a green light from the BIPT for the same reasons, while the BIPT accepted the argument that "all applications of an equal category are included in this zero rating." The BIPT therefore argues that equal treatment should be applied. Minister, how do you evaluate the promotion that is being made for that package, with the emphasis on the unlimited fact that it does not seem to be so unlimited? How do you evaluate the similar situation at Orange, which, for example, advertises at bus stops with large posters for an offer that seems to be unlimited, but in which after some time the consumer ends up on a small band with the somewhat absurd speed of only 512 kilobytes? Despite the BIPT's claim that all applications of an equal category are included in the zero rating, it does not appear to be the case for Linkedln, which is also a social network. The data traffic of that social network is outside the scope of application, unlike other social networks. What has the BIPT's theorem been used for? Is a difference in target group, in particular a business social network versus a private social network, sufficient to speak of a different kind of service? On LinkedIn there are also quite a lot of personal messages, and although things are a bit more serious, the distinction with Facebook is sometimes limited. In my opinion, there is a similar service. Can similar social media or music streaming services apply to make use of the same possibilities? What is the role of BIPT in this? Today zero rating does not distort the market, due to the conditions applied and the wide possibilities of alternative offers without zero rating by the same or other operators. Continuous monitoring of such developments in the market will, of course, always remain necessary to ensure the free competition of other applications. In what way can BIPT ensure such monitoring?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u26	The task of ensuring that zero rating on the Belgian market does not limit the open internet is a permanent matter. Therefore, BIPT requests an update of figures and data several times a year to assess whether intervention is necessary or not. The most recent monitoring report on net neutrality for the period from 1 May 2017 to 30 April 2018 was recently published on the BIPT website. As far as the new subscription is concerned, the BIPT has been in contact with Proximus about this new offer. According to the first data received, the offer respects the rule that the unlimited use must stop when the 3 GB is used up. In this respect, the BIPT sees no problem. In addition, the European regulation on net neutrality does not contain a black and white ban on the provision of unlimited dates. The regulatory framework aims to assess the impact of an offer on consumers and service providers in practice. This impact analysis should be based on, among other things, actual figures that the BIPT will request from Proximus. The answer to the question of whether the selection of zero rated apps in the new offer limits the rights to an open internet will only be answered by the BIPT after completion of the second phase of the study, which will determine, among other things, what similar services are. The BIPT has never stated in the press that all applications of an equal category are included in zero rating. Finally, as far as fair advertising is concerned, there are no rules specifically in the telecoms law but in the Code of Economic Law which falls within the competence of the Minister of Economy. With regard to the formulas with unlimited offers, I assume that you share my view that, should there be more competition, there will probably be more of these offers on the mobile market. I assume that you and your party will support me in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u27	Minister, you referred to the European legislation which certainly seems to me to be in order on this point. In my question, however, the main focus was on the right communication. These are matters that are also covered by the telecoms law, which to a large extent falls within your competence. I assume you will contact your colleague Minister Peeters on this matter if necessary. Then perhaps you can also talk on occasion about competition in the telecoms market, something for which he also invited you. You said there were no statements from the BIPT in the press. However, I read the Time Quotes of the BIPT. Since the passage in question was in quotes, I assume it was a quote. The piece in De Tijd said "because all applications of a similar category are contained in it." If I do not question the reliability of the journalist, it seems to me to be a quote from the BIPT. Please do not contradict me in that regard. An investigation into what similar services are, I think, is very important in this matter. I am very interested in the outcome of that. I hope this doesn't take too long. Allow me to call for urgent procedure on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u28	Madam President, Minister, TBC, the only current bpost competitor, which is expanding (it targets 30% of the market by the end of 2018), has recently launched a call to change postal codes. According to her, the current system is not accurate enough and is a source of error. By adding two letters to the already existing four figures, as is the case in the Netherlands in particular, the situation would be greatly facilitated, she said. These two letters make it possible to refer directly to a specific neighbourhood. This solution would have the dual advantage of being inexpensive and particularly efficient. It would also benefit other market players, such as parcel delivery companies or emergency services. According to the Organic Law of the Autonomous Public Enterprises of 1991, the operator of the postal service takes over the management of these codes, and according to the law of 13 December 2010, in case of a desire to change them, it is up to bpost to make a proposal to the IBPT, which then has to give you a reasoned opinion. Mr Minister, have you already received a concrete proposal on this subject? If so, or if the question arises in the near future, what is your position on the matter? Do you see any obstacles to such a proposal? Finally, in concrete terms, what would be the stages of such a process and how long could this possibly be finalized?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u29	Mr Flahaux, to date, I have not yet received a concrete proposal on this subject, nor have I been informed that a proposal will come to me in the near future. It is impossible for me to take a position on this issue without having thoroughly analysed the real need for a change in the postal code system and its financial and practical impact on postal users and providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u30	Madam President, I see from your expression that you also find this answer a little light. We could already analyse the results of this measure in the countries that have adopted it, such as the Netherlands, in order to draw up a list of advantages and disadvantages. I think that would be helpful. Thank you, Minister, for your first answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u31	Minister, on the sidelines of a recent informal dinner of EU Heads of State and Government in Sofia, European Commission Vice-President Jyrki Katainen presented the institution's digital strategy. The document, entitled "Completing a Digital Single Market Building Trust for All", places particular emphasis on data protection in the business context such as that of the British company Cambridge Analytica. This text sets out Europe's good intentions on digital issues and states that it aims at creating a single digital market as soon as possible, as a herald of the protection of privacy. However, these statements cannot mask the obvious digital delay that Europeans have accumulated. Since the first presentation of the Community strategy in 2015, 29 legislative proposals have been put on the table, but only 12 have been adopted at this stage. Minister responsible for the Digital Agenda, in the face of this worrying delay, how can you explain the blockages that prevent the creation of a genuine single European digital market? How does Belgium position itself vis-à-vis its European partners? In the context of the entry into force of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and of the various scandals concerning the digital world, how better to protect European citizens in this field? Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u32	My colleague, the work on completing the digital single market is continuing, in accordance with the ordinary legislative timetable of the co-decision procedure between the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament. In this regard, some issues may be more problematic than others, leading to longer debates between the institutions concerned. Thus, to illustrate this point, I will mention the recent discussions on the abolition of the over-tariff of international calls within the European Union. The European Parliament made it a matter of principle, which had the effect of prolonging the trialogue debates on the adoption of the future Electronic Communications Code. In a similar vein, with regard to the future regulation on the free movement of non-personal data, the Council of the European Union reached a compromise at the end of December 2017, but the European Parliament waited six months before starting negotiations and trialogues on this issue. As regards the position vis-à-vis European partners, Belgium is primarily concerned with the defence of national interests. To illustrate my point with another example related to the future Electronic Communications Code, we have adopted a common position with the Netherlands in order to support a legislative amendment aimed at providing the IBPT with adequate regulatory means to impose remedies stimulating competition in the telecommunications monopoly market that our two countries are experiencing. As you can see, we are looking for points of convergence with our European partners, in order to best defend our interests in the Council of the European Union. Thus, in the context of the negotiation of the future regulation on the free movement of non-personal data, Belgium was one of the Like-Minded Countries which advocated the speedy adoption of this text by inviting the European Parliament to take up this matter as soon as possible. With regard to the protection of the personal data of European citizens, the provisions of the GDPR, which came into force on 25 May, should be applied, which aims precisely at ensuring a very high level of protection. It is therefore necessary to allow the competent authorities the time to draw up their case law on the matter. In any event, the European Union has a legislative arsenal that should enable it to ensure optimal protection of the personal data of its citizens. For more information, I invite you to ask my colleague, Philippe De Backer, Secretary of State for the Fight against Social Fraud, the Protection of Privacy, the North Sea, Deputy to the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health. Member States shall make every effort to close all cases relating to the single digital market by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer, which this time is lengthy and thorough. I know how interested you are in the digital agenda. You are helping to ensure that Belgium, which was a little late, is now in the lead. It is not yet at the level of Estonia, for example, which I believe is the model. I realize that the way in which legislation can move forward in the European Union can take time. But it is not up to us, as Belgians, to give lessons to the European Union. It is sometimes very long also when it is necessary to have a text adopted by the country's seven parliaments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u34	Minister, you are currently finalizing the Royal Orders for the extension of licences for the frequency bands from 2021 and for the opening of new bands. These licensing auctions are an important issue for Belgium. They represent a financial manna of the order of 700 million over 20 years and allow, through the obligations associated with the licences, to influence the configuration of the telecommunications networks. User rights are granted for a period of 20 years, renewable for a five-year term, without the obligation to amend the rules at that time. So it's a matter of not missing the check. There are several points in your approach that affect me. I would therefore like to put different proposals on the table. You have announced that minimum coverage will increase from 98% to only 99.5% of the population. This is a level already reached by the three existing mobile operators. And you announced that the minimum speed would increase from 3 to 6 Mbps (megabits per second). In practice, you will tell me that 0.5% of the population that would not be covered is derisory. I do not share this view because this 0.5%, combined with grey areas, makes it very difficult to cover rural areas, cross-border areas or mobility. When you move around, there are regular cuts. Moreover, with a minimum speed of 6 Mbps, there is little that can be done. It is true that we have basic access to internet pages, etc. But for downloads or video conferencing, it takes a minimum speed of 6 Mbps. In addition, you have announced an obligation to cover the railways for service providers who provide wifi on the train. However, SNCB has since announced that it will not continue the wifi track on the train. The only alternative for the user is direct 3/4G connectivity. In my view, the obligation should aim at this direct connectivity to the user rather than to the intermediary that the wifi service provider would have represented. You propose to set the coverage and quality requirements once for the 20 years of licenses. However, the conditions for licensing must encourage operators to make investments in network quality on a continuous basis, not once every twenty years, when the licence is renewed. The quality requirements must, in my view, evolve in parallel with the growing consumption needs. These needs, as we know, are likely to increase. In this regard, Test-Achats had made an estimate which concluded that, in a service package, which should be offered for the use of all Internet users, the minimum speed currently required to use this service package is around 10-12 Mbps. This sale of licenses is, in my view, an opportunity to eliminate grey areas. The question is how, including when travelling, to avoid disruptions and to have a better network at all times and to compensate for the often fragmented networks of operators in the most remote regions. This should also be an opportunity to eliminate grey areas from the fixed internet. In this context, it seems to me that consideration should be given to opening up the possibility of internal national roaming - not the international aspect relating to foreigners coming to Belgium. My point is not to provide for roaming throughout the country, because there is the whole issue of cost and competition. So far, the sale of the zones stipulated the exclusive use of the spectrum by the acquiring operator, with a ban on sharing. Internal roaming, at the level of the whole territory, could hinder the competition of networks. I am not referring to roaming throughout the country, but rather to internal roaming paid between operators or the combination of frequency bands of different operators, exclusively in the most rural areas for which coverage is hindered or possibly in certain areas with low mobility links. This would allow users to win and, as it would be strictly localized, it would not stifle competition. Other countries provide examples. This is the case for the sharing of waves in Scandinavian countries. It is done only in rural areas. Such mutualisation improves connectivity, reduces the cost of investment through co-investment and sharing of equipment, and reduces the environmental impact of antennas and their outreach, while preserving competition again, since most of the country would not offer any possibility of roaming. Minister, I come with a series of questions: 1. Consultations are now complete for your proposed royal decrees. You are in the last straight line before publication. What is the level of coverage and quality required by these orders? Do you confirm that you target 99.5%? How do you justify it? Why not eventually require 100% coverage in increments? Based on what criteria have you opted for a minimum flow rate of 6 Mbps? Why not impose a quality criterion with a minimum speed for the 900 MHz band? 2. What obligation to cover the rail network will you impose? 3. How will these obligations evolve throughout the licence term? Why not require successive step-by-step advances? 4. Will you allow internal roaming and the combination of frequencies in the most rural areas for operators who wish to do so? 5. In order to address future spectrum scarcity problems, consideration was given to placing spectrum in a common pot and using it collectively. It's frequency pooling. What about it? 6. Should we not, finally, provide for a framed mechanism of derogation from the obligation to cover sectors, villages or communes which would deliberately request to remain in a white zone in order to meet the needs of people who are electrosensitive? This would require a sufficiently broad framework and acceptance framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u35	Mrs Fonck, as an introduction, I would like to point out that we have very good coverage in Belgium, in comparison with other countries. We forget it. Coverage can always be improved, certainly in some places; but those of us who travel to nearby countries, for example in France, find that coverage is not at all comparable, even in populated areas. There are interesting advances in Belgium compared to white areas. At the beginning of the legislature, there were 39 white areas. Today, I think there are 16 white areas. This is a huge step forward. That's a good thing. This has been achieved through partnerships, not through legislative changes or increased obligations. We tried to look, with the operators, how it was possible to invest more in these white areas. A good example is the agreement between the Walloon government and the operators concerning the tower tax. This is a good logic: instead of paying a tax, the operator invests the same amount, if not more, in the networks. It would be nice if the same thing were done with the provinces, because there are still provinces that tax the towers. It is not surprising that if the towers are taxed, operators are less enthusiastic about installing them. The same people complain that the coverage is not sufficient. Specifically in response to your questions, an increase of 99.5% to 99.6%, 99.7% or 99.8% is a very costly operation for operators. The increase in cost per potential customer is increasingly disproportionate as these percentages increase. 100% coverage is impossible. There will always be a few places without cover. For the 800 MHz band, a flow rate of 3 Mbps is retained. If an operator, in excess of 10 MHz duplex in the 800 MHz band, acquires 10 MHz duplex in the 700 MHz band, then it has twice as much spectrum and the imposed flow rate can also be doubled. In the 900 MHz band, 2G is still used. These are the relatively narrow 200 kHz channels, in which more flow is possible. You say three or even six Mbps aren't enough. I'm not convinced. Netflix streaming is now done on the fixed from three or four Mbps. This means that with this bandwidth, you could stream on mobile. That's the information I have. Look at the statistics Netflix publishes itself. These show the flow levels in different countries. Belgium is still in the top; we are one of the best countries. You will see that the necessary bandwidth is in that spectrum. Let me turn to your second question. The possibility of covering the main train lines is under consideration. I am positive about that. As you know, I'm rather a fan of the idea of having wifi on trains as well. To do this, we need to introduce mobile coverage on railway lines. We're looking at this. There is, of course, a great difference between the broad lines and the smaller ones. As far as your third question is concerned, the planned deployment of the radio-electronic network along the railways must be carried out in a gradual manner. On the subject of national roaming, the subject of your fourth question, the shared use of infrastructure between operators will be possible throughout Belgium on the basis of commercial agreements between operators. The regulator will not impose radio access network sharing and national roaming will not be imposed on existing operators either. Why? When national roaming is allowed, it is a barrier to competition between infrastructures. You are referring to Scandinavian countries, but you will agree with me on this point: the topology of Scandinavian countries is radically different from that of Belgium. In these countries, they have done so in some areas where the population density is very low. Some areas have a low density in Belgium, but this is not comparable to other countries. In all international comparisons, Belgium is rather well placed in relation to coverage. If we were to do domestic roaming, I think it would be a hindrance to investment. This is not what we need in Belgium. In relation to your fifth question, the shared use of frequencies between operators will be possible throughout Belgium, also on the basis of commercial agreements between operators. Finally, in relation to your sixth question, I have seen this concept of a village that would deliberately ask to be a white area but, for the moment, I have the impression that it is a theoretical concept. I have not yet seen any requests on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I sum up what you're telling me, the cover is good in Belgium. That is true, but it is forgetting that, in some areas, and I am talking about white areas, but also grey areas, problems persist. The objective of a public authority, in this case the federal government, must not be to say that there will be costs, brakes, etc.On the contrary, it is to show a strong ambition which is at least similar for all the Belgians concerned. Yes, there are rural areas, but I repeat, there are difficulties in cross-border and moving areas. You can't make a trip between two big cities without having one or more cuts. Excuse me, but this is a real problem! The government cannot say that it will be satisfied with the current situation. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, since we are talking about a framework for the next twenty years, the needs will explode. How are you going to make it clear that, in terms of health, citizens will have to connect and will not be able to do so? How, economically, can we say that if it is a small SME based in a rural area, so much so for it? I don't think that's right. You're putting the cost ahead. That is why we are putting forward the alternative of homelessness. You answer every time by making it look like I'm proposing a national roaming. No! I know, since I've just talked about it, the competition issues. In my view, this roaming should be possible only where the coverage is low. This is already the case, since foreigners who come to our rural areas benefit from homelessness. In short, technical arrangements do exist. Minister, we are calling for a much stronger ambition on your part. The speed of the flow requires, in fact, more demanding standards. Whatever the location, the cover must be much better than the one currently available. Otherwise, you will leave a part of the population on the side, without even saying that it is quite possible - and even reasonable - to benefit from a 99.9% coverage in technical and financial terms. Madam Chair, I will not repeat the various aspects of my inquiry, but I will table a motion of recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u37	Mrs Fonck, I still need to clarify some points. First of all, you exaggerate a little when you blame me for a lack of ambition. On the contrary, we are in the process of tightening the cover obligations contained in the contracts. Second, there are opportunities other than national homelessness. For example, the assigned spectrum can be shared. One of the major challenges arising from the deployment of a network is the acquisition of sites where antenna poles will be installed. In particular, the sharing site is possible. These methods are not entirely consistent with that of national homelessness. However, at the financial level, they are fairly comparable. Finally, I agree with you that maximum coverage must be encouraged. Moreover, we see that telecom operators use it as a means of competing with each other. I note, moreover, that the entry of a fourth operator into the market would have a positive impact in terms of investment and coverage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u38	Mrs Fonck, the last word is yours, but I only give you a minute to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u39	Madam President, I promise to be brief. Minister, thank you for your additional information. However, I must remind you that the 99.5% level is already reached by the three already active mobile operators. No further steps have been taken at this time. A minimum speed of 3 to 6 Mbps remains low. Just now, you were telling me about France, but look at the level at which it has reached: it is far beyond that speed. For our part, we propose to gradually achieve, within the next twenty years, a minimum speed of 10 Mbps. Roaming already exists, at least in some areas. Other methods are in fact applied. If you do, this proves that you can agree with the idea of achieving a coverage rate of 100% or, at least, 99.9%. Otherwise, you would contradict your words. Indeed, you say that efforts still have to be made, while leaving a fringe of the population on the side. Therefore, review your ambitions upwards by assuming these opportunities and target a rate of 99.9% in 20 years, following a successive step-by-step path.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-10-54-commissie-ic945x.u40	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post Office, asks the government - adopt the ambitious target of 100% or 99.9% coverage of the population with a minimum speed of 10 Mbps in contrast to the conservative target currently set in the project of 99.5% coverage with a flow of 6 Mbps. A 10-year long transition period may be given to a potential new entrant to increase from 99.5% to 100% (99.9%) of coverage; - this target of 100% coverage and increase in flow must be achieved in successive stages throughout the 20 years of licence term; - allow national roaming (from one operator to another depending on the quality of the signal, e.g. when travelling) and the combination of frequencies between operators to increase the flow in very rural areas. This national roaming could count in the calculation of the level of coverage of the population by operators; - to provide for an obligation of means for the coverage of railways for users on trains, in addition to or instead of the obligation to cover railways for a service provider providing wireless internet access on trains; - to allow a mechanism of derogation from the obligation to cover villages or communes which would deliberately request to remain in a white zone, for example to accommodate persons who are electro-sensitive or intolerant to electromagnetic waves." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development Cooperation, Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post, asks the government - embrace the ambitious objective of a range of 100% or 99,9% for the population at a minimum rate of 10 Mbps, as opposed to the conservative target currently set in the design of royal decree and providing for a range of 99,5% at a rate of 6 Mbps. A potential new entrant may be granted a 10-year transition period to move from a range of 99.5% to 100% (99.9%); - ensure that that objective of a 100% range and an increase in speed is achieved in successive steps during the 20-year period of licences; - to enable national roaming (change from one operator to another, depending on signal quality, for example during travel) and the combination of frequencies between operators to increase speed in very rural areas. This national roaming could be included in the calculation of the penetration rate; - provide for a commitment to reach the rail network for the benefit of rail passengers, in addition to or instead of the obligation to reach the network for the service provider providing wireless internet access on trains, - to provide for a derogation mechanism for the mandatory range for villages and municipalities which explicitly request the conservation of a white zone on their territory, e.g. for persons with hypersensitivity or intolerance to electromagnetic radiation.' A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Peter Dedecker. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Mr Peter Dedecker. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
