ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u1	We have read in the press that there are two studies by Lockheed Martin, which show that our F-16 fighter planes can be deployed longer. A copy of these two studies is now delivered to the members of the committee. The Minister asked for an explanation on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u2	Madam President, I agree with your proposal. I would, however, like to ask that the comments on the Minister's explanatory statement be respectful of those colleagues who have put forward interprelations or questions and therefore respect the order in which they are presented.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u3	We shall, of course, do so, Mr Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the media, I would like to thank you, first and foremost, for being here so quickly. The statements published here and there in the media today are indeed important enough to bring together in the short term, so that I can give you an overview of the facts as they are known to me at the moment. It is true that this government has already decided in the coalition agreement to replace the strategically important capacity of air combat equipment. Our F-16s will soon be forty years old. Last year we proved that they are still very good at what we need them for today, but the question was whether they will be in the future. That is why it was important to make that decision at the time. Whoever is particularly interested, I can refer to one of the Flemish channels, where tonight a series starts about the woe of the people who work with the great and still high-tech F-16s. Nothing, however, has eternal life. That is why the government agreement at the time already included the decision in principle of replacement. The replacement file has had a long preparation time. Numerous studies have been carried out. Finally, on 17 March 2017, the government decided to initiate a procedure with a competitive position between state agencies. In the meantime, I hope, the course of this procedure is well known. On 14 February 2018, the team concerned, the so-called ACCaP team, received two regular best and final sacrifices, which are currently being assessed and evaluated by seven independent evaluation teams. I would like to point out that more than anyone else, I am aware that this is a material replacement program involving a huge amount of money. This program will have a significant impact on our Defence for many years or even decades. I have chosen to act as transparently as possible at the procedural level. Thus, the specifications are public and I have always answered questions from Parliament and the citizens. It is in this spirit that I am here before you today, and I am going to provide you with the reports referred to. Perhaps we could ask the services to provide the members with a copy of that report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u5	That's what's happening now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u6	This morning it was announced through the newspapers that a study would exist on the extension of the age of our F-16-year-olds. In addition to a number of technical questions, however, there are a number of political questions which I would like to address here. What are the main political questions? Firstly, have I, as a competent minister, deliberately or unconsciously, withheld crucial information from the government or from Parliament? That would indeed be unacceptable for a minister responsible for such a dossier. Secondly, why has a report, when it comes to extending lifespans, never been submitted to the Minister? Thirdly, what does this mean for the ongoing procedure concerning the replacement of Belgian air combat capacity? There are also a lot of technical questions. I have no doubt that, once you have had access to the famous reports, you will have more questions, to which I will answer as much as possible. Next to me is Lieutenant General Debaene, the Director-General of the Material Resources section, who will be able to provide more technical insights if necessary. I will certainly try to give more insight into exactly what is in the two reports and in that way on the scope of the reports. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that the explanation I will give is about the facts that are known to me at the moment. I have already told the media that I want to see the last stone turned around in this. Research will therefore follow, but I hope to clarify a number of things very quickly. That's why I instructed the Chief of Defense this morning to give me a detailed account of the chronology and the decisions taken. In addition, I will also consider and proceed to call on an external service to carry out an audit on the procedures, especially in order to prevent information that might be important from hanging somewhere too low in the chain. Let me first give a chronological overview of the facts. I would like to distinguish between two different processes: the political process in my cabinet and the government, on the one hand, and the process or procedures in the Defence Staff, on the other. First of all, in 2015 we started studying and preparing a Strategic Vision, in which clear choices are made for the next fifteen years' investment in the different dimensions in which Defence operates. The most striking investment in that package is, of course, the replacement of our air combat fleet. In preparation for this Strategic Vision, we have, moreover, conducted an internal investigation into the various options for ensuring our air capacity in the future. Several scenarios were examined, including an extension of the age of our existing fleet, the creation of a mixed fleet or the maintenance of a part of older aircraft, which are used longer and are subsequently taken out of service in stages, and even, in particular for some members of the commission, the purchase of second-hand F-16s. For several reasons, these options were not retained and the government decided on 17 March to compete between states for the replacement of air combat capacity. You will recall that there have been several questions here in Parliament in the meantime relating to an age extension, which I have always answered in the best possible way. I have explained the extensive studies and tests, including the continuous application of vibrations to the second generation F-19 life extension device. Lockheed and the US Air Force have therefore carried out thorough tests for what is called block 40, which could increase the number of hours of the F-16s of the second generation from 8 000 to a maximum of 12 000 hours. What has happened in the meantime in the area of equipment management, according to my data? That's not the team working on the purchase. I'm talking about the people who are working with the Defense Staff to manage the current F-16 fleet. First and foremost, Lockheed announced in August 2016, in the context of the tests that Lockheed has just done on the F-16's of the second generation, that a new theoretical model was developed for the F-16's of the second generation to ensure the flight security of those aircraft. On 25 January 2017, our equipment manager asked at an international meeting of all the countries using F-16 chassis, whether that new theoretical model would also be applicable to the F-16. That is a question he asked at the time from his position in order to be able to manage his fleet optimally. On 26 April 2017, the equipment manager... I never received that report...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I can add that, after this morning's consternation, I asked the question whether that was the last thing left behind. Apparently there is also a second report by Lockheed Martin, dated 12 February 2018, which is also distributed today, which corrects the first report and includes additions to our F-16 fleet. I'm gonna go over to what, I suspect, will be your first question. Did I have any knowledge of the report referred to by Mr Crombez? I can answer that question no. I saw the report in question this morning for the first time when it invaded my electronic mailbox. A few hours later, I received the second report which I have now had distributed and which contains a correction to the first report. So I would like to repeat that I have never deliberately withheld any information, either from the government or from Parliament. The question that then arises is the following: why has the report not reached me, the Minister? If you ask me if the report should have been communicated to me, I reply in full: yes. You're asking why. To answer that question, we need to look again at the actual thrust of the report. In this context, I would like to remind you that there are people working within the Defence Staff to manage the fleet as effectively as possible and to allow it to fly as efficiently as possible. This means that for each aircraft it is monitored very closely how many hours it flies, in what conditions it flies and that's more. In that context, the material manager asked Lockheed to obtain a photograph of the real condition of the aircraft on the basis of Lockheed's theoretical model. So far, always had gone out... I'm trying to rephrase it. The F-16s are essentially scheduled for 8 000 hours of flight time. So we have always kept track of the actual flight hours. It turns out that 8 000 hours are not all the same hours. We have other dossiers here in Parliament, and it is noted that one day is not the other. This actually means that there are the actual flight hours (APH) mentioned in the report, namely the number of hours the plane is in the air. However, there are also the equivalent flight hours (EFH), which are equivalent flight hours or recalculated flight hours, to which a coefficient based on the actual use of the aircraft is applied. I would like to invite you to take page B5 of the document of 26 April 2017. You will see that we have gone through the concrete numbering of our devices, for obvious reasons, but you can see the age dependent, age dependent, severity factor (SF) there: to what extent does an hour really mean an hour. That coefficient shall be applied to it. So you can see that we can achieve more equivalent flight hours for a whole pack of devices than actual flight hours. For a number of other devices, however, the factor is higher than 1, which means that they will not be able to fly 8 000 hours according to the theoretical model. The Defence Staff has always assumed the actual flight hours until 2017, not the equivalent flight hours. The material manager must plan the deployment of his fleet. On that basis, he requested a study. He has received a clear answer, but there are some important elements. Lockheed Martin quite rightly points out that this is a theoretical model based on a number of conditions. I'll give you a list of the conditions. Firstly, it is assumed that a particular aircraft will retain the same intensity of deployment. This means that the same severity factor will be calculated for the aircraft over time. Secondly, according to Lockheed Martin, this process must be measured on a continuous basis. Measurements should be carried out on an annual basis. Thirdly, if we want to extrapolate this to the entire fleet............................................................................................................................................................................ Fourthly, it is a theoretical average. Each plane has its own severity factor. You can compare this to a car fleet in a garage. If you say that the brakes are on average okay, then I do not think that this is a healthy basis for driving any car out of that garage. In that case, the chances of hitting a car whose brakes are not working are the same as the chances of them working. Those are the limitations mentioned in that report by Lockheed Martin. I would like to confirm that it is theoretically possible to fly an average of six years longer. However, it is neither theoretically nor practically possible to fly with each aircraft for another six years. This is not in the text, but it must be read in this way. There is also a report of 12 February 2018 which complements and corrects the report of 26 April 2017. Please remember that this report of 26 April 2017 says that this should be renewed annually. The report of 12 February 2018 states that the theoretical model is not yet fully on track. A recalculation was made and on page B5 it is indicated in the penultimate paragraph that it is possible to fly certain aircraft even 10 years from the time of the January 2017 projection date. However, the first aircraft will reach 8 000 hours of flight time in 2023. 2023 we have always used as a starting date for the replacement of the F-16s. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't need to justify file managers. The way in which this information has not finally come up should be investigated. This is being investigated in the meantime. I cannot comment on this at the moment. The fact is that neither the Chief of Defense nor General Debaene was aware of these reports by the Director-General of Material Resources. What's to be done now? At the moment, pending the investigation, I can tell you that it has at least been a serious error of assessment for me, and I guarantee you that we will do everything we can to clarify this in internal and external research. Then I will take the appropriate action. Tot slot, you've got a lot of procedure. I have already said in the media this morning and I repeat here that we are in the evaluation phase today in connection with the current procedure. I see no reason to stop the evaluation phase at the moment. It seems absolutely obvious to me that we will bring the results of the evaluation of the various tenders to the government table as soon as we receive them together with the information obtained from the reports and any other relevant information that will be available at that time so that the government can make the right decision on the basis of all the elements. I'd be happy to be at your disposal for any questions you may have.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u7	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your explanation. Minister, when I heard you say on the radio this morning that you were not aware of this study, my mouth fell open. A first time in 2016, a second time in 2017 and a third time in February 2018, I asked you, over and over again, whether it is possible for our F-16s to remain in service beyond the 8 000 hours or after 2023. Every time, you'd say no. And each time I referred to foreign studies carried out at the request of other countries, which showed that for F-16's caved in, it was other block types that did happen. Mr Minister, I am disappointed because I thought you had raised parliamentary questions. Should I have been there in your place as Minister of Defence, while a Member of Parliament who has been here for more than 25 years asks me three times in a row about a possible extension of the lifetime of the F-16, I would assume that a good minister should have a friendly discussion with the Defence Summit to ask if there are any such studies. Minister, more importantly, it is about what is probably the most important military dossier of this century, and about EUR 15 billion. I believe that all taxpayers in Belgium are entitled to the cheapest solution which at the same time guarantees security for our country. If you had that attitude, you would have instructed your Defence Staff to investigate whether or not the F-16s could still be used after 2023. You did not, and I consider this to be a great negligence on your part. I come to my second point. I don't know what to think of the worst. Is that the fact that you're not aware? I take this very seriously, because that means that in a parliamentary democracy, like ours, assuming that the decisions are taken by the government, under Parliament's control, and assuming that the government and Parliament are entitled to the full information on such an important dossier, the military summit in this country is withholding information from politics. That is unacceptable, and I am very much in favour of it. That you were not aware of the existence of such studies, I am very pleased, although I am still not sure that you were not aware of them. I have here a tweet by Jens Franssen, a widely respected journalist, who reads as follows: "Defension certainly carried out a study into cost prolongation. Early on, but access was denied by Steven Vandeput. I don't know if it's about the study we're talking about today." A journalist asked you about studies in temporary non-suspecto and at that time he knew it, because you implicitly confirmed that such a study was there, but you did not give him access. Mr. Secretary, you say you're having an investigation carried out. I understand that's what the Prime Minister's asking for. If this Parliament respects itself, it must also ask. The Defence Summit must sit on these banks and come here to answer the questions with regard to the representatives of taxpayers. I repeat, this is about 15 billion, not a small amount. The first question I will then put to the Defence Summit is whether or not they have informed the Minister. I want them to answer that. The second question I will ask is for what reason, under what law and whatever political rule, they did not consider it necessary to provide the Minister of Defence with all information on such an important dossier. Mr President, I would also like to refer to a document on which we were able to reach agreement. The name of the author of the document has been deleted and I will not mention that name here. Departing from that person, we want to know the whole necklace from sp.a. Who was this guy supposed to report to, and who were these guys supposed to report to? In the end, I think we're gonna get back to the Chief of the Air Force. In that case, we will ask the Chief of the Air Force if that information was passed on to your head of your cabinet and to you as Minister. We want to know all that necklace. We want to be able to question all the people who have played a part in this. Among those people, we certainly want to question General Vansina, Chief of the Air Force. Indeed, we are in possession of a July 2016 email, while the study you have just handed us is from 2017 which states that General Vansina is appalled, it is upset, it is an English-language e-mail about the fact that Lockheed Martin is carrying out a study on the extension, the short extension of the service life by six years. That means the chief of the air force was anything but happy with that initiative. Finally, I thank you for the second study, but, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 February 2018, five days after I asked you again, Minister, namely 7 February, whether they could fly longer than 2023, my question was whether, following the example of Taiwan and the United States, they could have an even longer lifespan. That information was known at the time. At that time you told us that it was not possible for the Belgian F-16s. You have just referred to the page: B5. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a good look at them. It doesn't say that the F-16 can fly for another 16 years, but 27 years. The Americans call that a hard service life extension program (sleep). They are doing that on more than 850 of their F-16s, because, they say, the F-35 currently offers no guarantee to be completely reliable and because the plane is far too expensive in purchase and far too expensive in use. That means that this study might never have surfaced if we had not started that action today or yesterday. I ask you to give us the cost of such an operation. How much would a hard sleigh cost? We will put that at the 15 billion purchase costs for the F-35 and its use over a period of 30 years. One always speaks of 40 years, but one calculates from 2016. According to the schedule, the planes won't be here by 2026. That means EUR 15 billion for 30 years. Minister, I am sure that if you give us the cost of that solution, it will cost three, four or maybe five times less. We then have aircraft of the same level as what the United States wants for itself. They opt for a mixed fleet, a fleet consisting of stealth planes and updated F-16s, because this is a much better solution both operational and budgetary. Mr Minister, I would ask the government to freeze the current procedure and to fully examine that thought trail! Let them be fully quantified, and let us then, in view of the existing budgetary problems, see that the N-VA does not have many problems with this, because in the case of budgetary deficits, social security is being removed, which we reject, and for the sake of our country's security. As long as you have not done that exercise, you are not in full transparency, as you always say. You then give to politics and to society not all the choices that there are. Minister, we are not letting you and the government go on this dossier. We are asking for the entire Defence Summit to begin for us. We must be clear, our democracy demands that. We expect the government to choose the best solution in the dossier, taking into account the budgetary problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u8	Madam President, Minister, my colleague has already said a great deal. I still have some questions about the study itself. We have quoted from a study. You're presenting us two. I wonder how many more are coming? If we present anything later, what else will come from the Defence Summit? The first study, dated 26 April 2017, explains the theoretical number of flight hours compared to the number of hours actually flown and the hard use of the aircraft. That's what Lockheed Martin investigated. That is correct. According to Lockheed Martin, the theory of 8 000 hours is no longer valid and should no longer be held. The theoretical model stipulates that the hard use of the aircraft, in particular air-to-air use such as air combat, amounts to 8 000 hours. In practice, our aircraft do not arrive on average, as you yourself said, but lies between 0.8 and 0.85. If one converts that into reality, then one speaks of appliances in soft sledding, one should not get a new certificate from the producer and one wins up to 1 500 hours of flight time. In the equation you make, you say that there are aircraft above that average. That's right. There are also planes underneath. At the beginning of your explanation, you said that the study was carried out with a view to the replacement period set out by the Defense Department to allow the new aircraft to enter and replace the current F-16 dynamometers, especially between the end of 2023 and 2028. This is also based on the calculated lifespan of the F-16 aircraft, i.e. the theoretical lifespan of 8 000 flight hours. After calculating the practical lifespan, LNM reaches 2029 to 2036. The first, as you yourself said, are old and in theory at their 8 000 hours spent in soft sledding. They must then be replaced first. According to Lockheed Martin's exercise, the soft drag makes it perfectly possible to continue using the procedure and the devices until 2036. For the sake of clarity, when talking about 9 500 hours of flight time, the distinction is the second study you are now presenting with the hard sledge, to which Mr Van der Maelen also refers, the manufacturer does not talk about life-time extension or hard sledge. It is then a question of adapting the lifespan to the real use of our aircraft today, as they are being tested. I believe you, if you say you haven't been aware of the studies. In that case, there is certainly a major problem with the DOD because they have not informed you about the studies. Conversely, you could have asked for it. However, I wonder whether the members of the Defence Summit could not, on the basis of the study, propose and ask for additional investigations in order to effectively examine each aircraft fully the possibilities in terms of soft sledding. For the record, soft slep is perfectly possible. In 2017, we spent EUR 41 million on an up-to-date version of these devices so that they could remain operational until 2028. I agree with the comments made by our colleague, with the second study on the hard drag and with the reply. It is true, indeed, that the largest states in the world are now also doing studies in order to have a financially viable perspective. They shall also have their F-16s extended or at least carry out the studies for that purpose. The United States is conducting investigations like this. You can read that anywhere, on Twitter and in the American media. The United States has their F-16s examined for hard sleigh. What about us? Apparently, our minister is blind. He didn't read all that, he didn't have all that examined critically? I wonder if such investigations have not been carried out within our Defense Department. That's the answer I want. Not only from you, Minister, but also from the military summit, which is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u9	Mr De Vriendt's question has been withdrawn, and he has been apologized. His question was retabled by Mr Calvo, who joins the line at the back.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u10	Mr. Minister, obviously, the Defence lied to you. We were supposed to replace the aircraft from 2023 until 2029, giving rise to the market of the century. In fact, we could still keep these devices for at least 27 years from today. That's what the two studies you gave us say. When I take up the questions I intended to ask you, you have already answered in part. This study was delivered to Defence on April 27, 2017 and you received it today! So, for a very long period of months, the Defence has been hiding an essential study from you. We have this study almost at the same time as you, and I welcome this gesture. Why didn't you ever mention this study? Because you didn't know! I would remind the military in the Chamber, as well as all their colleagues, that in a democracy, Defence is at the service of the State and not the other way round. To hide such an essential study of the main public market that the federal government is going to undertake is a serious mistake! A very serious mistake! It is you, Minister, who pay the political price. According to the press, some devices are modernizable. Which ones? According to the study you gave us briefly, they are all! As far as the cost of this modernization is concerned, it is more vague, but we are talking about a billion. It's very different from $15 billion over 40 years! In the face of the current imbroglio, are you going to cancel the current public procurement for the purchase of 34 new fighter-bombers, as provided for in Article 8 of the specifications, which we have analysed here? Twenty-seven years is huge. It's unexpected. Twenty-seven years in any case, this justifies not embarking on this market of the century with significant budgetary consequences. You've talked about two generations, maybe even three. We asked you dozens of questions in committee. In this context, you and Colonel Van Pee in charge of the program of this famous army subdivision, namely the Air Combat Capacity Successor Program Office, which is the intermediary between all potential future sellers of the 34 fighter-bombers, but which is also fully responsible for the F-16 replacement program. Colonel Van Pee, in my mind, and if I refer to all the answers we have received here in Parliament, was in charge of the entire integrated programme of replacing the F-16. I do not understand why this structure specifically dedicated to replacing the F-16 was not aware that a study, by another Department of Defence, had been commissioned by the F-16 builder to determine whether it should be replaced. A specific cell responsible for replacing the F-16 had to know that. That cell must have been able to inform you. The people responsible for transmitting this information both inside the defence force and to the political leader, namely you, will have to be punished because both the political impact – as you are now measuring, Mr.Minister – that the budgetary impact is enormous. Federal subjects such as Health and Mobility, to take only two examples, are worth more than a false public procurement for false needs. With your colleagues, but also with the Prime Minister, you promised an open and transparent market. I repeat, "open" and "transparent". Open means "with many competitors". There were five of them at the start. With the withdrawal of Boeing, Saab, the semi-retirement of Rafale, there are two remaining. This market is therefore no longer open. On the other hand, we have always been told about transparency. I note, minister, that every time we interviewed you and talked about this deal, you, for your part, were transparent. You said what you knew, but the Defense isn't telling you everything. In the end, it is you who are responsible for this non-transparency because you have to politically assume what the services do, whether you know it or not. So there are two things to do, minister. First, stop this deal. The imbroglio becomes far too big. It's turning into vaudeville. We are ridiculous on the international stage. We are ridiculous to States as important as the United States, France or other countries such as Great Britain. We must stop this market, not take budgetary risks, not take strategic risks, not take political risks. The second thing to do is, at the end of this investigation, to take responsibility. If you believe that errors have been committed in the transmission of this information and the investigation confirms this, the officers in charge of this transmission of information must be punished. If you decide not to punish those responsible in the Defence, then you will have to take the wrong step in this political direction. It's as simple as that. Which way are you going to choose?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u11	Madam President, Minister, for several months now, the contracts initiated by Defence have been asking us in more than one way. To our many questions – as colleagues have said, there have been many – you have very often answered by false leaks or completely displaced angers. But today, two reports are on the table. These are new elements that prove that your angers were really displaced and our questions justified. I am very concerned by the conclusion of your speech, where you are actually making honourable amends in speaking of a serious error of assessment. However, I expected you, on your own initiative, to suspend this market which has been asking questions for months and which, like my colleagues, is asking us about various aspects. No, you say the procedure is clear and you continue to move forward. But the mere fact of two reports of which you are not aware proves that the procedure is not so clear. So, Minister, please stop this deal and, above all, stop messing with us! Stop making fun of parliamentarians who have been asking you questions for months, to which you do not answer. Today, we realize that we were ready to hire Belgium for decades, for billions of euros, on amateurism. As has been said, there are many questions about the different options in the competition to ensure that Belgium maintains its hunting capacity for the years to come. The government has always cut behind its decision to replace F-16s and not to deepen the possibilities of extending their lifespan. The possibility of extension has never been clearly set out in the House as a possible alternative to digging. Minister, why didn't you ever ask for this report? My colleagues called you. The option was put on the table. We have discussed it; you can agree to it. But you never asked for the report to see if there was any reason to make billions of savings in this market. Excuse me, but it's still amateurism! You say that, indeed, we cannot extend all lifespans, and that these are averages. By taking a brief look at the report, with my group leader, we realized that the average was exceeded for 5 out of 27 aircraft, but that even these 5 aircraft could still be adapted. I say it without that being a great technician. Adjustments and investments have been made. I do not understand why, despite these developments, despite the elements of the report that you yourself point out before the House, you continue to say that you are maintaining the procedure chosen. I am sorry, but you are paying your head, not parliamentarians, which would not be very serious, but Belgians! You're hiring people for billions of euros! Of course, as my colleague said earlier, when we have to do the extra work, I know that you will mainly benefit from social security. We cannot hear that this is not possible. It is known that Portugal, Taiwan, Korea and even the United States are taking the path of extending the lives of aircraft. I'd like to know why this is not possible for ours. I didn't hear any real justification. In your answers, you said you discovered the report this morning, almost at the same time as a number of us. Can you, minister, certify to me that no member of your cabinet, or any member of the government other than you were aware of this report? I hear some of them in the Defense Department knew about it. I would like to know how you, as the minister responsible for the defence policy of this country, react by hearing that members of the Defence are hiding such essential information from you or not allowing it to reach you. For a defense minister, you don't hold your troops! I'm sorry, but it's disturbing! I heard you and the Prime Minister hiding right behind an investigation. Excuse me, but from experience, with this government, I don't trust investigations. I know that they are slow to come and that their conclusions are still very inconclusive. So I'm asking for more than just an investigation. I agree with the request of my colleagues in the Sp.a. that this committee should hear from the officials responsible for defence. We want to know who asked for this investigation, when, how, why, and especially why it was not passed on to you or to this Parliament, whose main function is to control these kinds of markets. I do not know, in the end, what is most worrying: that you were aware of the report and that you did not say it – but I do believe that you discovered it today – or that you did not know about it. As I told you, this is proof that you don't hold your troops, and so the Defence doesn't respect you as a minister. As I said, it is also proof of great amateurism for a budget of several billions of euros for decades. However, social security suffers. Even the members were almost put on the pension plan. The state of the barracks is known. I am very worried, and I am telling you, as I said at the start of my speech. I'm very worried about this case. We call for the immediate suspension of the procedure. I'm also very worried about all markets. If they're handled the same way, I'm afraid of what we can find.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u12	Colleagues, Minister, this is an important dossier for the defence sector and for the population, because it is a major investment from EUR 3.6 billion to EUR 15 billion. The public has a right to transparency and full clarity. Transparency has so far been the key word in this dossier. The procedure agreed within the Ministry of Defence and in the government's lap was followed. This morning, however, everyone was surprised by the coverage of a study that would have been made. It is important that neither Parliament nor the Minister was aware of this study. These two facts create a clear political problem. My group insists that Parliament can exercise its control over any information and any fact in this file. The question is who ordered this study and why? And why was the information withheld from Parliament and the Minister? For me, that is a serious political fact. In your explanatory statement, you announced measures, and I think they are necessary. I come to the question of flight hours. You rightly said, Minister, that all the scenarios were examined in the preparation of this dossier, including the extension of the current F-16s. I think it is also appropriate to examine all the scenarios in order to make the right decision. All these comparisons were based on 8 000 hours of flight time. Today, on the basis of these two studies, we find that the current F-16s can achieve up to 10 000 flying hours, although theoretically. This, of course, makes a huge difference. In our analysis, we have always assumed that the first aircraft would be taken out of the air from 2023. Today we are faced with other information. You have just made it quite clear in your explanatory statement that we must take into account the fact that the F-16s can fly longer. That's an important statement to me. Minister, what does this mean in concrete terms in the current procedure? Is the study also talking about a certain cost for all kinds of necessary adjustments, maintenance costs and updates to maintain fighting capacity? I would have liked a clear answer to that. The question is, of course, what now? The government has received tenders from two candidates. You have just said that these tenders will be evaluated and that the government will take a decision on that basis. If you have the evaluations, will you take into account the information elements that have emerged in the studies that you have presented to us today? Madam President, Minister, I come to my conclusion. It is about an incredibly important file involving a great deal of taxpayers' money. Neither the government, nor Parliament, nor you can afford to be diligent in this matter, to make mistakes, to make decisions on the basis of wrong assumptions, in particular the number of hours of flight, on the basis of wrong assumptions. The information that is now emerging in the studies may have been requested by a Department of Defense which is not necessarily immediately involved in the replacement of the F-16s. However, that information may be relevant. That information can be used to make a good and well-considered decision. Well, I hope that we will come forward with that information in the next few days and weeks. I hope that you will also bring out the information on the evaluation of tenders very quickly so that the public and Parliament can be clear about the way things are going.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u13	Mr Minister, this is obviously an extremely serious matter. This is the most emblematic case of your department under this legislature and you come to tell us a story that is probably only the tip of a whole story of which we do not yet know the ins and outs. One thing is clear, minister, either you didn't tell the truth in Parliament, or you weren't told the truth, or you manipulated us, or you were manipulated. When we hear you, you tell us that the army has hidden essential and strategic information from both the military and the budget, Parliament and the government. This is a serious attack on democracy, an extremely serious attack! I take note of that, but I won't let you investigate this case alone. I believe, like other colleagues, that Parliament must indeed deal with this extremely serious matter. If I say that, it is because, once again, today, you are relativizing some of the information you are giving us. You don't take full measure of it. You tell us that the second report is a supplementary report which adds some technical information to the first report. In fact, it is a report of much greater content and severity than the first report, because in reality it is no longer a six-year extension of F-16s but a twenty-seven-year extension of F-16s in equivalent flying hours. It is thus learned in this report that the F-16s, provided they are properly maintained, could fly not 8,000 hours but 14 to 15,000 hours, as shown on page 5 of the second report. I think it is time that we, like Parliament, finally had sincere, honest, complete and transparent information on what has been presented for months as the market of the century and which could well be the break of the century. It is time to see if it is necessary for Belgian taxpayers to spend EUR 15 billion to renew aircraft that could still fly for a long time. You know that I have always defended credible defence, reliability, credible intervention by our forces on the ground of operations. Today, my confidence is impaired because information has not been passed on to us. I note that Parliament cannot carry out its work seriously with regard to the military programming law and the strategic vision that you are defending. I have asked you many times about the quality of military procurement procedures. You didn't have a hard enough word against me to say that these procedures were transparent, honest and reliable. I note today that they are not. You are aware that I have sent a letter to the Chairman of the Defence Committee and to the Chairman of the Military Procurement Committee so that we can finally have a public debate on the important, substantial and strategic purchases we are making for Defence. Again this afternoon, we have to take a decision on an amount of €360 million in the Military Purchases Committee. I'm always worried. Our procedures are changing, random, of which we do not know the legitimacy and which we must approve, in camera, in Parliament's committee. Minister, I would like to know if we actually need these planes to replace the others. Does the procedure that is chosen allow us to guarantee that we will have them that we need? You know that I systematically question this procedure. It is for this reason that I ask you to discontinue this procedure. Indeed, one cannot be both judge and party; one cannot be both commander of the air force and decide alone, in a vacuum, whether or not it is appropriate to replace the aircraft. I have always asked that there be an outside look at this type of procedure so that pilots are not left with the choice of the future aircraft and the ability to decide when it will have to be provided. I therefore ask that this procedure be interrupted. There is no point in pursuing the latter when there are questions about reliability and trust in the way things are going. Minister, I also ask you to produce all the documents – exchanges of information and letters – about these reports. I hear that my colleague Van der Maelen has pieces that date back to 2016 and therefore contradict the chronology that you are making to us of the request that the army made in January 2017 to know whether these F-16s could be extended. I hear the air force boss, as early as 2016, is aware that a study is taking place and would oppose it. Again, the information you are giving us today is incomplete and contradicted by documents that some of my colleagues have in their possession. I would also like to have them in my possession. Can you communicate them to Parliament? I ask that this procedure be suspended. I also ask that Parliament take this issue and how we acquire heavy equipment seriously. I think that in terms of our credibility, the budgetary impact, the legitimacy of such purchases in relation to public opinion – we know how expensive these devices are – and the democratic principles that make it impossible for the army to hide such important information in Parliament, we can put all these procedures to rest and regain the confidence necessary for the acquisition of such materials.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u14	First of all, Minister, I would like to thank you for your transparency. You immediately convened a committee meeting, in which you gave a detailed explanation and immediately delivered the two studies to all Members. The committee meeting also takes place with open doors, with openness and transparency. You have also used very strict deontology in this dossier. You have put the RfGP on your website. You also have a transparency register, which is carefully completed and does not have contact with lobbyists. You are also asking for a thorough investigation: you said literally that you will turn the last stone, and of course we support it. I have two questions for you, Minister. You just mentioned that the study was requested by the material manager. The person in question is responsible for his fleet and, of course, wants to know how best to manage his fleet. You ask that his question for this study is in fact quite normal in the context of sound management. It's routine. These are actually fatigue studies, in the sense that the technical health of our F-16s is investigated. If there were no replacement file, would these studies have been requested and done? I also think I know that our discarded devices often have a second life. That was true in the past with previous F-16s and also with the Mirages. They usually go to Africa or the Middle East. Is it so strange, Minister, that our F-16s can serve for a few more years? I think it is more important to ask whether our army with the F-16s, some of which, according to a theoretical model, can continue to fly for a few years, can fulfil its mission in accordance with NATO standards, i.e. safe and efficient? This concerns our people, our pilots, our personnel, our soldiers from Little Brogel and Florennes. One will only fly with an F-16 plane above enemy territory, which according to a theoretical model is likely to make it. I would like to have answers to these questions, for which I would like to thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. This morning, like you, I was called out of bed early by Radio 1 and I was immediately awake. Like you, I had no knowledge of the studies. We are therefore pleased to see full transparency here today about the studies which you have had distributed in committee and which are now available. Those are the studies that are known today. We don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow. When I read the studies, my heart started to beat faster, on the one hand, because I'm an aircraft engineer, on the other, because of the content. After all, what it says, colleagues, is not peanuts. Although this important information is not part of the RfGP procedure, it is clear, but it is important information on how our aircraft stand today and what their future might be. As you said yourself, Minister, this is also a very serious mistake in the defence apparatus. It's not normal that such important information doesn't come to you. Since this morning, the situation has changed every hour. There's gonna be new information. I have a specific question on this: how will you involve Parliament in the next few days and weeks? What timing do you give yourself to get that report? You said yourself that you and the Prime Minister requested the report. What's your timing? If we are told in this committee today that the Americans are considering extending their F-16s, and that this has been investigated, we as liberals think it is normal for every taxpayer to know what they are doing there, but also whether our planes can continue to fly or not. This information is a new element for Parliament and for yourself. We believe that, on the basis of this information, you should have an additional study carried out in the short term, which will show which of our F-16s may be eligible to be adapted and which will not, as well as how much it will cost. That study is best made not by Lockheed Martin, but by an independent agency. There are a few of them on the market. For us, the study can start quickly and run in parallel to the existing procurement procedure for the replacement of the F-16. Its outcome will be an important factor in making a decision. Finally, what will you do about the defence staff? As I said, I consider it a serious mistake that such information does not come to you. What will you do about the staff so that such matters will not happen again and to remind those responsible of their duty?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr De Vriendt apologizes. That does not have to be a disaster here, Minister, because we have about the same number of flight kilometres on the counter. You have been informed of this file as long as I have, especially since this morning. All day long, everyone's been wondering if you didn't know if you didn't want to tell them. You made that clear: you didn't know. You have not tried to lie to Parliament, you have only been withheld information from you. That doesn't make it any less painful or annoying for you, because that way in place of game dealer in the file, you are rather the playball. Especially for such billions of dollars, that is a very annoying thought. This story is also written in a list of files in which you must experience the situation rather than shape them. I refer to the leaks from the top of the army, the difficult issue of military pensions in which you are rather the play ball of your coalition partners, and the file of the barracks, which you are not getting around either. There are three things I would like to record with you. First of all, who asked for the study? You're knocking on the chest and saying you didn't ask for this study that's leaking right now. That is the problem, Minister. Of course, it is a problem that you were not informed of the study and did not receive it, but as far as I am concerned, it is even more a problem that you have never had such a study carried out. With the taxpayers' money, of 11 million Belgians, you want to make a very expensive purchase. However, in the case of such a purchase, you leave behind to carry out such a study. The biggest problem, even bigger than the fact that you didn't have that information, is that you never asked for that information during such an exercise. That is my first point. Why have you never done so, when Parliament has so often been asked to do so? Several colleagues have asked you to make that exercise, in such a polemical and financially difficult dossier. That is my first question to you today. I have a second point. Minister, I am really looking at this with my mouth open. If one did not tell us that this is happening in Belgium, one would think that it is in some unstable undemocratic country, where the army summit apparently has things behind the back of the Minister of Defence. When I read that the Army summit finds it annoying that the option is being studied, I find that a very nasty thought. When I read that leading figures in the Defense Department are pinging each other and wondering if they would pass it on to the Minister and not do so in the end, that actually amounts to a putsch, which does not fit in with our democracy and our rule of law. I wonder, Minister, what are you going to do with that? In the end, that is also a question for Parliament. I would like to add to Mr Van der Maelen's excellent speech, and I would like to see all those involved passing through here one by one. Madam President, I have another question. I would also like to hear at least the authors of the study here in a public sitting in Parliament. We can get to the bottom of that. With this, new information can be added to our board which shows that even a longer lifetime may be possible. Minister, I would like to thank you for that. You came here quickly and you didn't just come up with what was leaked in the press, you came up with a second study that shows that the possibility might be even wider. That is all the more reason to make the exercise thorough, for you and for Parliament. The third point concerns the follow-up to the procurement procedure. I believe, Minister, that it can only be suspended now. I do not go into the many speeches made by Mr Hellings and Mr De Vriendt. I go to Steven Vandeput in April 2017. Colleagues, Steven Vandeput, Minister of Defence, said here in Parliament: "The announcement made by Lockheed on the extension of the F-16's life span is therefore, unfortunately, not applicable to our own fleet. So Steven Vandeput stated in 2017 that what Lockheed announced was unfortunately not applicable to our fleet. Ladies and gentlemen, the words 'too bad' are very important in this respect. After all, Minister, you did not simply state that it did not apply to our fleet. You stated at that time that unfortunately it did not apply to our fleet. Therefore, if you are consistent with your own explanations and if you remain subject to your present statement and philosophy, if you can, why should we not do so? Then you can only suspend the procedure. In that case, of course, you will do what we have been asking for a while. You are therefore doing what has not been mentioned today. Colleagues, for whom the file is being followed, that is the punch line of the whole story. Vandeput states in 2017 that unfortunately we cannot do that. Today, however, it appears that it may be possible today. In fact, the second study shows that it can be firm. We therefore have no choice but to suspend the operation. I repeat, this is not a million-dollar buy-in. It's not about messing around in the margins. Nor is it about shopping or Christmas purchases or an Easter gift for the wife or for the best friend. This is about a billion-dollar buy-in. Apparently, there are people in the Defense Department who are so eager that they want to withhold business. We cannot tolerate that. Mr Vandeput, what I cannot tolerate is that you are now apparently going to let go of your own philosophy of April 2017. If you still have to answer one question, it is to this question. Will you do what you said yourself in April 2017, namely that, if we can, we should certainly investigate it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u17	Madam President, Minister, for our group, you have demonstrated your political honesty before our committee this afternoon. You were not informed of the existence of studies when senior army officials were not only informed of them but even asked for them. We therefore take note of your answers, your explanations and your good faith. However, we will pay close attention to the results of the investigation that you and the Prime Minister have requested. We cannot, for the time being, draw conclusions about these results, but if there has been a failure, the latter will in no way be able to remain unpunished. If necessary, sanctions must be imposed. As Mrs Fernandez Fernandez said in passing, we are parliamentarians and not technicians. A priori, within our group, we hear your explanations about the real meaning of the 8 000 hours mentioned in these notes and about the need to maintain the F-16 replacement market within the time limits initially mentioned. You have confirmed that, once the review of the returned bids has been completed, all the elements will be on the government table, including the legal possibility – as the Prime Minister has asked for this to be considered – to take into consideration the Rafale offer. In conclusion, for our group, Minister, on the one hand, the whole truth must be made about what has happened in the chain of transmission of information. On the other hand, the contract procedure must be maintained, so that, with knowledge of all aspects, one can choose the apparatus which can satisfy all the criteria in the best way, as defined in the invitation to tender. Our commitment to ensuring the combat capability of our air force is an important and fundamental aspect of the case in the eyes of the MR. I have heard some groups put this argument aside, and not want to take it into account. We want to maintain the combat capability of our air force, and maintain the ability to meet our international commitments, particularly within NATO. This will has not varied by an iota since the start of the procedure. We also wish to ensure, in the most complete transparency, the economic benefits of this market in all its aspects. The MR Group wants Parliament to be fully and fully informed, Madam President. If people need to be interviewed, be they.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u18	Madam President, in addition to the questions asked by Mr Miller, I would like to thank the minister for voluntarily proposing a debate on what happened. We must always ask ourselves the question, when we see dysfunctions: who benefits from the crime? As part of a forthcoming investigation, Minister, inevitable questions arise. Among these, who exactly commissioned Lockheed's study in 2017? If these people did, why? Who paid? With these answers, we will already have a source of information that will allow us to track the will behind all this. Once this study was carried out, it had results, already in 2017. This is clearly reflected in the April 26 document. We have to ask ourselves what happened between April 26 and February 12, the day a second document was received, a second study. Was the latter, which came to us today, commissioned by the same people, or did such a study systematically take place after a first study was carried out, for confirmation of the results of the study? These questions are interesting. Was this first study voluntarily put in a drawer? There are a number of things that seem surprising. Minister, I am now wondering what your level of confidence in the staff may still be. It must be extremely complicated to do so for the time being, and certainly until the light is made on everything that has happened. I will finish my speech by trying to relativize at least one thing. While we note that there has been an important procedural error in the award of this contract, I would, however, like to avoid amalgamating with all the contracts made in connection with the purchase of military equipment. Let us not question everything, but at least check that there is no procedural defect in these different markets.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u19	Mr van der Maelen, I appreciate your 25-year commitment to this House, let me be clear about that, but if you point out in your intent that you have asked certain questions and I have answered them, then I think that we should be honest with each other and that we should clearly state what you have asked and what answers I have given you. Quite a bit of confusion is being created about, among other things, foreign studies and who is doing what. Fernandez Fernandez, when we saw what Korea or the United States were doing, these were other types of F-16 than ours. If you want to know more, I invite you to consult one of my answers to a question from Mr. Van der Maelen, a response that specifically states the differences between Block 40 and Block 15, which is ours. So if I have said in the past that there are no studies in my knowledge, then I have provided information about studies that have happened in relation to another type of F-16. As far as I'm aware, there was no detailed study of ours. Having said that, Mr van der Maelen, you say that there have been studies. You never asked me to do that. Mr Calvo, if you really think that I, a little self-employed person from Hasselt, am committed to a dossier of EUR 3.5 billion in 2015 without verifying whether there are alternatives, then you are wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u20	You didn't do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u21	I have just made it clear in my speech that we have made a study of the various possibilities that exist in the internal defence sector, my cabinet, in consultation with the government. When we talk about figures, let us talk about the same figures. Some relate to the extension of the F-16. Soon the question will come as to whether I can make them public. I have no problem with that if you give me time to have that checked, because they have the predicate confidentially today. So I can't just let them pass around, but I'll check. Mr Franssen, this is the last time I have given you anything off the record. You should know that on this one, too. That may be included in the report. That must have been the last time. Mr Calvo, we have done our homework. We have put forward a proposal on the basis of a number of previous studies...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u22	Is that how you intend to proceed, threatening journalists?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u23	I'm not threatening. I see. I'm saying this is the last time I gave...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u24	The journalists are doing their job! Try to do yours! Try to do your job instead of attacking the press!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u25	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u26	Mr Calvo, I can only tell you that I have sometimes tried to provide background. I'm sure you'll see the same thing with journalists. I think you also say something confidential to journalists from time to time. Then it hurts to see that appear later in tweets. I can tell you that, can't I? I have to be told here as a minister of everything and get all sorts of reproaches thrown at me and I shouldn't be allowed to defend myself? That's not right either. We're not gonna work with two sizes and two weights! We did our homework at the time, Mr Calvo. That was your question. If I can give a satisfactory answer to all three of your questions, will you go ahead with your procedure? I do not think so, because I will be able to give a satisfactory answer to your three questions. We did our homework back then. We have made an estimate for the replacement of the F-16. If I am not mistaken, we were talking about EUR 700 million in structural investments and EUR 1.5 billion in operational investments. It has to be clear. This is not the report that sets out once and for all and clearly that an extension of the lifetime of the F-16 can be done in its entirety and without any doubt. This report indicates to what extent it is technically possible to allow the frame, the structure of the aeroplane..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No decision has been made on all other systems, on remaining operational and on remaining operationally relevant. Then comes the political aspect that we decided at the time to replace the F-16. The F-16 is 40 years old. The last F-16 would be in current planning at runoff 48 or 49 years. I'd love to hear you talk about 27 years of age extension, but are you really going to have our pilots operate on 65-year-old aircraft? Is that really the choice you want to make? The question we must then ask ourselves is whether we are still operationally relevant? After all, today a lot of the dated aircraft still flies, but that's why they can't always do what they need to do operationally anymore. So the question is whether or not we will remain operational. Our assessment, in preparation for the decision to open the market, was taken from that perspective. We prepared that decision in 2015-2016, from the then perspective to replace our fleet within a period of ten to twelve or fifteen years. If it turns out that it is structuralally possible to fly longer, either in theoretical hours or in real flying hours, in actual flying hours, and if it allows the process to be spread more widely, I am confident to study to what extent we have a valiable business case to spread that flow. That must be checked financially, operationally and organizationally, as we do with every project we begin with. In short, I would like to say the following. I know the Socialists like to talk about 15 billion. That amount was once picked up because members of the ACCaP team in this committee explained what the entire life span cost of that story would be and indeed 15 billion. However, Mr van der Maelen, the figure we have to compare is 3.5 billion. I don't know where you're getting an additional billion, but maybe you've got some great aircraft engineers at your service who can calculate all that. The billion you mention must be compared with the more than 3.5 billion from the Strategic Vision, but not 15 billion. In that respect, we must be honest with each other. Mr Top, you have asked for your own inquiry to be launched in Parliament. Well, Parliament itself regulates its work. You should therefore address that question to the President of the Chamber or to the Conference of Presidents. I'm not interfering in that. As a minister, I have never banned any guests from making statements in Parliament. If you find that useful, again, please let go. The question is just how far you want to go: to what extent do you want to put your finger on it? Mr Vandenput and Mr Calvo have just spoken about democracy and holding things back. Democracy, however, also means working within the scope of the rule of law. It is, of course, difficult for me, Mr Van der Maelen... you can wave mails that you have received in any way. I have no means at my disposal today to see the mail traffic of the entire general staff, let alone all the equipment managers operating within our device. If we want to investigate matters, we must follow a number of rules. That is why I am extremely cautious today about what the consequences will be and what measures will be taken. You are right that we should look at the level of the person who received the report at the time, see where it was hit and who made the decision not to push it any further. I would also like to clarify this, and I suspect we will be able to clarify that. I will not say the name, but I will say the degree of the person we have removed from the report. It's a captain. So that is not the degree that decides whether or not to pass on information to the Minister. A captain always reports to his first commander anyway, and that's how it goes. That's the way it works with the DOD. For me, however, it is no problem that you want to organise a hearing, so let me say that it is difficult for me to defend myself against e-mails that I cannot know about and which I am not mentioned as a recipient. You will not have an e-mail with my name on it, I think, which gives me the necessary certainty as to my answer. Mr Hellings, what does "suspend the procedure" mean? For the PS and the cdH, I understand. They asked to stop the procedure two weeks ago to start with the Rafale. If we're talking about suspending or stopping, I've been very clear in my introductory statement. For me, today there is an evaluation and there is no reason to stop it. But now I have more data! There are fleet managers on one side and the ACCap team on the other. The latter works on its side, in an isolated way – at last, I hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u27	Do you realize that everyone is informed except you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u28	You didn't listen to what I said!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u29	It is you who are isolated. Instead of being arrogant, you should be humble. If I were you, I would be humble and answer the questions instead of telling anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u30	If you mean important things, it's better to know the file, Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u31	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u32	I've been talking about it all afternoon!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u33	Try to answer the questions rather than invent anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u34	Mr Hellings, I will repeat again that the studies that came to me this morning concern only the ageing of the hull and not the whole of the F-16. There is no mention of electronic components, radars, etc. It's only about the hull. It is not correct to make it appear that this document proves that it would be better to continue. Having said that, I deeply regret, Mr Van der Maelen, that I had no knowledge of these studies. It should have been my choice to make this study public or not. That choice should indeed be at the level of the Minister himself. And I could have decided not to make them public myself, but I can assure you that I wouldn't have. Today's debate makes no sense, because I can refute any argument based on the report that the replacement should not take place and that the tender should stop. We cannot have the substantive discussion today because, let me just say as it is, I really have to go after the facts. Mr Hellings, you claim that this is a false public market for false needs. I don't agree. It's a political choice. You're Ecolo, I'm from another party.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u35	Thank God!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u36	Mr Yüksel, you asked who ordered the study. I have just tried to explain that, if we call it a study, the study was ordered by the relevant equipment manager in accordance with his job, in particular the management of the fleet. Why was the study withheld? That's what we're trying to figure out. For the answer to that question, we must await the investigations and the report of the Chief of Defense, which I have asked for. It is essential that we also know the reasons for this before taking any further steps. You ask me how I will take into account the possibility that the aircraft can fly longer. I have just said that if there is any other way of looking at the period in which we are replacing, I certainly want to do so. In that case, however, we must take into account all the elements, such as the question of what it will ultimately cost us to extend the lifespan, as proposed. Mr Van der Maelen and Mr Top have specific words which are even unknown to me, namely soft sleigh and hard sleigh. So they are well informed. I want to have everything studied and we will see what the result is. Mrs. Grosemans, the material manager did indeed order. Is that a normal question in his situation? Yes. These questions were asked in 2003, when the midlife update was prepared from 2004. At that time, not the entire fleet but 27 aircraft were equipped to have the possibility of taking specific measurements in the areas of wear and tear, the formation of the so-called cracks and that is more. That decision was already made in 2003. In 2004, exactly those dates and that study were used to phase out certain aircraft, to get a midlife update and thus have the most chance to last as long as possible. So it's a normal question. However, I find it difficult to answer the question whether he would have asked if there had been no replacement files. I suspect, however, that since the aircraft in question are approaching the limit of 6 000 hours of flight time and since it is known that the aircraft theoretically have 8 000 hours of service guarantee from the manufacturer, precautions are beginning to be taken. That seems to me to be a plausible possibility. Mr Vandenput, you are asking me how I will involve Parliament in this. This seems to me to be primarily a matter between the Minister and his staff, but I come regularly into this house and you are, of course, free to question me about the progress of things. It is essential to shed light on this when we will have to effectively decide on the successor. I believe I have answered the questions, unless those of Mr Thiéry still remain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u37	My questions also need to be answered, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u38	I did. I will start by saying: Mr Calvo. Mr Calvo, first of all, who asked for the study? You're saying that I didn't and that the big problem is that I didn't. I say that I did get my own study done at the time, but that is indeed an internal document that was used as a policy preparation. So I've done that work effectively. I have also said that it is now carrying the predicate "confidence" and that I will have it examined to what extent we can make it public. If that's enough for you, I hope it's okay. Secondly, your statement that this is a putsch of the army summit, I leave it on your behalf. I have said that I too believe in democracy and in everything that goes with it. I also believe in the rule of law, in which everyone has rights and obligations. I can't just walk in somewhere and look at e-mails and stuff. Steps must be taken to achieve this. I asked the Chief of Defense today to give me a detailed report on the chain of communication. In addition, I will have the matter examined, in order to clarify the situation. Then, if we have seen what has gone wrong, we can take measures to prevent this from happening in the future. Today's events make sure that everyone involved in such programmes from far or close by is aware of the seriousness of the information that is being handled and that it is perhaps best to keep an eye out at the moment of passing on information that might also raise interest at a higher level. A further question dealt with the suspension of the follow-up to the purchase procedure. My question is: what is suspending? As long as we do not take the step towards a decision, there is no need to suspend it. So I do not see why I should ask today to stop the evaluation. No, the preparation needs to be continued and at the time the dossier is ready for the next step I will examine what information should be added, for example these studies or information about other players on the market. Then I can go to the Council of Ministers with a fully documented file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u39	Mr Minister, I am sorry to interrupt you, but my third question was about something else, in particular about the fact that you yourself said in April 2017 that unfortunately this was not possible. You understand that I want that question answered. You indicated at the time that unfortunately it could not be done, which is more than a nuance. Does this still apply to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u40	That's a nuance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u41	So you actually said it wasn't your plan B, it was your plan A. Is that still true?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u42	It's not because I use two words of pure empathy with the people who ask me a question... you're not a regular visitor to this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u43	I'm trying to get here all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u44	Those who normally come to this committee know that I occasionally show some kind of empathy. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u45	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u46	Mr Calvo, someone from Ecolo agrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u47	Do you feel the same empathy for the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u48	I feel a lot of empathy for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u49	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u50	No, I said "bad enough" because I felt empathy for the person who asked me that question. Moreover, at the time, we looked at the possibilities effectively. As I said, the possibilities were explored before taking the next step in writing out the Strategic Vision and the like. Is that why that's a plan "A"? I wouldn't say that. You would like to see that, Mr Calvo, but unfortunately that is not possible. I will refrain from any form of empathy in my next answers in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u51	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u52	Well, I will reply again that I want to explore the possibilities. Today, people are pretending to have released the big report, the big study, on the possible extension of the F-16. These reports, Mr Calvo, are about the structural health of the aircraft. Firstly, where are we today? Secondly, it examines how long the structure of the device could last according to the theoretical model. However, this report has not yet indicated to what extent the radars of the future, the means of communication of the future, the weapons of the future and so on can also be integrated into that device. We have made a study on this. I asked the Defence Staff in 2015. That's what they call a staff check. This showed that when we talk about 2.2 billion for aircraft, when we know that basically the Americans are going to effectively stop the support in 2035. These were at that time the data that were known. It makes little sense to move forward with this piste. We have therefore closed that booklet, just as we have closed the booklet to go to a dual fleet. One would have continued to fly partly with the F-16, while in addition one would have bought a new type of aircraft. After all, we would be faced with enormous costs in terms of training. Training a pilot for an F-16 is something other than training a pilot for a C-130, to say anything. They are both pilots, but the training is different because they have different logistics chains, with different infrastructure needs and so on. However, I see that I am talking for the often. In that context, therefore, we have also left that part. The third option examined at the time, the option suggested by Mr Yüksel in the newspaper last week, as well as in his book, was to look forward to second-hand F-16s. We have looked at what is available on the market today. We should find a plane with less than 2 000 hours of flight time but that can be upgraded and so on. The devices that are available on the market today are those that I do not make a ruling on the period in which our own devices will end up at the end of their life cycle, although they are offered fairly cheaply but require a lot of investment in order to use them effectively in the systems in which we are operating today. We also know that the US Air Force said in 2035 that it would stop completely with the F-16, of any generation. At that time, as a small country, we would be standing alone for maintenance, updates and so on. So that too would be a great risk. If you want to make it appear that in the preparation of the file for the replacement of the F-16, which is about a lot of money, I have been talking about a night of ice, then I can only tell you that this is wrong. Much more thought has been given to it, as has discussion in the inter-Kabinette working groups, in this committee and in the Army Procurement and Sales Committee. Unfortunately, the discussion was mainly about the procedure and not so much about the content. I am open to answering any question they wish to ask. The permanent committee members know this, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u53	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u54	Madam President, I believe I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u55	Colleagues, in passing, the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales, which was scheduled for shortly, is not going to happen. There's the question of a hearing. Personally, I think it would be wiser to wait for the internal investigation. However, if a number of committee members ask the question, I will, of course, put it to you. We will not discuss this now, but we will discuss it at the next stage. This can be dealt with tomorrow. Colleagues who want to replicate will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u56	Madam President, I have five points. I'm trying to be concise. Mr Minister, in my questions I raised the two problems and the two reflections that we have here today in the form of these studies, in 2016 and in February 2018. Firstly, the question of whether, after the 8 000 hours, we can proceed to a soft sleigh and whether, in line with the foreign example of Taiwan and the United States, we can do a hard sleigh. Twice you gave me the answer that this was not possible. That's all I want to say. Secondly, today we have to see that sp.a never talks out of that kind of file. The fact that I interviewed you in 2016, 2017 and 2018 about what is now coming up through studies also proves that. Now that we are coming out with a study, it has been proven that this study should really have been available to the politicians, but that it has remained at the top of the army. Thirdly, it is very important that the study of 12 February 2018 completely changes the field. Until I came in here, I thought, on the basis of the first study of 2017, that we would gain six years, that we could well prepare the new decision that we should be able to make for six years. However, the new study now under way changes that fact completely. In addition to the option of purchasing new fighter planes, to be expected in the mid 2020s, for 30 years' use, with a cost of 15 billion euros for investment and use, the option that the army top wants to keep on the table as the only option is another option possible, namely: just like the Americans give our F-16s a hard slapping. It is not just about the structure, where one thinks about the hull and the wings. No, that hard drag is about everything that keeps an airplane in the air, like avionics. According to Lockheed Martin, the block 15 fleet F-16 of Belgium can, contrary to what you have always said to me, get an update, which means it stays in the air 27 years longer. You mentioned EUR 700 million and EUR 1.5 billion. I would like to see this study, all the more so because our study service was able to find out that the hard sleps in other countries cost far less than the price tag you give up. Then I come to my third point. Mr. Secretary, I wouldn't like to be in your place. I don't think you can rely on anyone on this dossier anymore. In your place, I wouldn't trust anyone anymore, because those who gave you the figures of EUR 700 million and EUR 1.5 billion are the same people who withheld the study of 2017 and 2018. Why? That is what we can only guess, but I do not think I am far off when I say that some people would like to sweep that study under the mat so as not to reduce the chances of purchasing a particular plane, which is very much preferred by the entire Air Force Summit. Those are the ones who are withholding the study. Those are the ones who give you the numbers. Everything points in the same direction. All solutions other than the purchase of a new fighter plane are not for those gentlemen officers a piste they consider. Sp.a asks that the study be made. We would like to see the report of 12 February with the cost side side. We would like to deliver those figures to Lockheed Martin and ask what the company thinks of the reality level of those figures. I shall come back to the aspect of trust. Minister, I will give you my personal opinion: you cannot continue to lead your department if those who misled you continue to work in their duties. That's what I called General Vansina, but I think I should also mention General Van de Voorde. I advise you to request all the mail traffic related to the presentation of the May 2016 study, the April 2017 study and the study of 12 February 2018. If you have requested all that mail traffic, you will see that not only General Vansina, top officer, is aware of it, but General Van de Voorde is also aware of it. This isn't exactly what I like to say. If it turns out, as I fear, that Mr Van de Voorde was also aware of the information that had to come to the responsible politicians, then he may still remain in his position as the lead officer of the military intelligence service. The question arises, however, whether we can trust that he will continue to provide all the information that must be communicated to politicians from his current position. I come to a penultimate point. You have just stated here that the question of the two studies of the Material Service has been raised. Another colleague has replicated that this means that Mr Van Pee was not aware of these studies, since it is about a different service. Now, Minister, I have an e-mail, of which I am now showing you a print. You recognize the graph. There is Mr Van Pee's name underneath. Mr Van Pee was thus also aware of these studies. Mr. Secretary, get all the mail traffic and you'll get some unpleasant surprises. Finally, what now? We will have to discuss with the Prime Minister what the political fallout is as a result of the two studies, which were completely unknown to the entire political world, not only to you and us, but also to the Prime Minister. I hope that we will be able to convince the Prime Minister that the matter should no longer be dealt with as planned. The file must be put on hold. It is necessary to carry out evaluation and search around the other slopes, which is now emerging thanks to the study of 12 February, instead of purchasing new fighter aircraft at astronomical amounts. You just expressed doubts about the operational nature. If the United States gives 870 F-16s such a hard drag update, why wouldn't it be good enough for a small partner in NATO like Belgium? I learned today that we should not discuss the dossier further with you, but that we should turn to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u57	Mr Minister, I agree with Mr Van der Maelen, but I must first say something. Mr Calvo has just said that, as for you, Minister, it is the second term of office for him to sit in Parliament. It's my first time. Well, you often show that you have temperament on the committee. But I have not yet seen you express not only your anger towards Members of Parliament, but also towards the press. I haven't seen that before. I cannot accept the fact that you are openly attacking a journalist in a public meeting. I therefore believe, like Mr Van der Maelen, that you should not reply to the questions on this subject in the future. It is the Prime Minister who has to come to Parliament to answer for the issue and the way in which the government deals with democracy and with journalists. Secondly, you did not receive the studies until this morning. We gave you one and you give us two back. Easter is approaching, so the eggs are on their way. You're mixing up the soft and the hard sleigh. Of course there will be additional costs. €15 billion covers all costs throughout the life of the replacement device with a purchase price of €3.6 billion and costs for, among other things, maintenance, lifetime updates and operating costs. I would like to give you some more budgetary information on what's left of it. Today an F-16 costs a little less than 6,000 euros per flight hour. The F-35, which happens to be a name I have often heard here, costs just over EUR 24 000 per flight time, according to the estimates of the Dutch Chamber today. The cost of the Eurofighter is estimated at almost EUR 15 000. For the Rafale, an estimate of just over EUR 13 000 is used. This is, therefore, proportional to a cost of times four for one unit and the other two units more than twice two. In other words, the cost comes up. I'd spend my resources for the Defense Department differently. I am not a asking party, like a number of majority members, for a suspension to deepen the studies further. I'm just asking today to stop the procedure. The content of the reports - who knows there are still - will provide new foundations for a new request. So one will have to do his homework again. There's still time. The first report of April 2017 speaks about six years. That causes the pressure to decide on the replacement to drop. Thirdly, there is no confidence here; I repeat what my colleague said. There's no trust between you and the Defense Summit or the people who were aware of the report and didn't report it anymore. The name of General Van de Voorde has just fallen. I must honestly say that there seems to have been a communication error between you and your cabinet. Until Mr Van de Voorde was appointed head of ADIV, he was your head of office. He was certainly successful in the first question of the tests at the ADIV: be silent. Apparently so. I ask in committee that both studies be deepened and additional studies requested, on the one hand, and that those responsible for the Defence Summit, on the other hand, be reported. Mr President of the Committee on Army Procurement and Sales, you had already given me the message that the committee's meeting would not go on behind closed doors. Of course, I wonder why we should be convening them today. If, in the most important purchase dossier of this decade, there is mistrust between the Defence Summit and the political world, the Minister, and not all the information is given, how should we judge the purchase files that are being discussed there? Will all the data be known there? As long as it is not cleared up, I would ask that the meetings of that committee be suspended. Madam President, I will table a motion. Our group is not asking for the replacement procedure to be suspended, but to stop it, to examine the lifetime extension of the F-16s as a serious option and to call the Defence Summit to account in the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u58	Minister, to paraphrase a well-known phrase: "Take advantage of the Defence, otherwise the Defence will take care of you." That's exactly what's happening. Obviously, this department takes you by boat. I asked you a question you didn't answer. A specific cell is called the ACCaP (Air Combat Capacity Program) and consists of three military personnel: Colonel Van Pee, Lieutenant-Colonel Lauwereys and Colonel Letten. According to what you said here, this cell was not informed of the initiative taken by a captain, which you will not name, to request Lockheed Martin to study the lifespan of the carcasses of our 50th F-16. It has always been presented to us here that the ACCaP practiced what it called "integrated management", which obviously took care of the market for the replacement of the F-16s – hence the purchase of the 34 fighter-bombers – but also of what our country was going to do with the ammunition that remained for our old F-16s and any other sale of military equipment related to them. Clearly, your line of defence is to say that a captain from another section of the Air Component, but who managed the military equipment, asked Lockheed Martin for authority to conduct a feasibility study on modernization. It's new. So we're going to have to check whether your comments are correct and whether the statements of some people working in the defence are correct as well. In our mind, this structure specialized in the market for the purchase of the 34 fighter-bombers also took care of the former fighter-bombers. Then, under your authority, the government decided to buy 34 fighter-bombers on the ground that – and that's still what we were told – between 2023 and 2029, the structure of the F-16, and not only the attached equipment, was not able to maintain itself beyond that period. It is clear today, with the study you have made public, that the decision to embark on this market of the century has been made on the basis of incorrect information either oriented or false. So there are two things to do. The first is obviously to see who committed the fault of not passing on the information to you. Depending on the responsibilities that will be discovered, these people will have to be punished. Second, indeed, the trust you must have in those on whom you are supposed to have authority no longer exists. Then trust us! That you can still do. Simply cancel this market! That's what you've been told all along. The decision you made to enter the market was based on incorrect information. Cancel this deal!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u59	Madam Chair, I am a regular member of the committee, I know, minister, that when you are uncomfortable or feel embarrassed, you use contempt. You did it today. Thank you, I know very well that we are not talking about the same planes for the countries I mentioned, but two reports that are on the table today prove that for our planes it is also possible. If you still don't have copies of the reports, don't hesitate! We can provide you with a copy now. What worries me is when you say we didn't study that possibility because we didn't have a study. First of all, it was enough to ask for it. What worries me even more is that you say that for all the elements of this issue, you have acted in agreement with all the members of the government, including the Prime Minister. No one in this government thought of asking for a study to see if we could extend our planes and not engage this country where we are told that we are cutting in health care, pensions and other sectors because of budgetary difficulties. Don't worry about it. We're not asking for an investigation to see if there's a plan B. Excuse me, it's your responsibility here but not just! I do not want to argue, but it has been weeks since we, together with my group, have been asking for hearings. Why? Not for the pleasure of suspending the file, but simply because we feel that, in this and other cases, there are problems. We have asked for auditions of the SPF Economy. Denied! We asked for other types of hearings. Denied! There is still something to worry about when we know that Sweden and France have moved away from the procedure. So there were reasons to worry. What is happening today, the sequence we are experiencing, proves to us that parliamentarians were right to worry. Minister, for us, there is no equivocation. There's no doubt anymore. We're here in front of a rigged market. Tricked by who? By what? That's what the investigation will have to reveal. We ask for an investigation but an independent investigation and that this investigation not be dealt with in closed committee, in the Kern or in the government. This inquiry needs to come back to parliamentarians so that we can ask all the questions and see where responsibility, in general, and political responsibility in particular is. We are putting forward a motion to suspend and reconsider the procedure. The sequence we are experiencing today shows us that the Socialist Group and other colleagues were right. This procedure is problematic. The small number of responses or the responses that did not arrive in relation to the five original bidders show that there is a difficulty in this procedure. What is happening today just confirms it to us. This is not the way you've been responding, how you've been dealing with things for a while, and how the file has been handled since the start that will reassure us. And it is certainly not in your word that we will have confidence. We therefore call for the suspension and re-examination of the procedure through a motion and an immediate and independent investigation, the results of which will have to be analysed before this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u60	Madam President, I have three brief comments. Minister, you looked at the different scenarios in 2015. For the scenario to keep the F-16s in service longer, you come out with a budgeting of 2.2 billion euros. We are indeed very curious about the details of that amount. However, there are other examples, such as Taiwan's upgrade, where other figures are used, which are much lower for the same type of F-16. However, we are very curious about the figures you have. I hope you share them with us. However, I am pleased with your answer that you do not exclude an extension if it is financially and operationally possible. Mr Minister, in view of the amounts mentioned, we must go for the cost-effective option. Secondly, you have also said that we must use all the useful information. That's our vision, too. We must make an informed decision. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a billion-dollar investment. We therefore point out that, knowing what we know today, the defence sector will now have to come out with a very strong dossier. Otherwise, the kite won't go on. My final point concerns transparency, which is the most important issue in the dossier in question. We are therefore looking forward to the external audit that will take place on whether or not to knowingly withhold crucial information. I repeat what I just said. We have always taken a calculation of 8 000 hours of flight time. Today, the manufacturer indicates that even in theoretical models 10 000 flight hours are possible. In that case, the context is completely different. I repeat that we were wrong on that point. The last word has not yet been said on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u61	Mr Minister, as you will have understood, the lack of confidence that we could still have in the procedures under way is totally wiped out by this information that we have today. I would like to return very briefly to the reason why I ask you to suspend the current procedure. This is because you have just given us information that once again turns out to be false, Minister. Madam President, the minister is not listening to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u62	Mr Dallemagne, the Minister is multitasking. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u63	I asked you to stop this procedure because, in my view, there was a risk that the same teams would be in charge of managing the aircraft and choosing the new aircraft. You said, "No, not at all. They're totally different teams, they don't talk to each other." However, we have received information from Mr. Van der Maelen, who produces an e-mail and tells us it's not true. Mr. Van Pee, the boss of the ACCaP, who is therefore in charge of the choice of the future aircraft, was well informed that this study had been requested. Again, Parliament is misinformed. To be clear, a counter-truth has been communicated to Parliament. This is both extremely worrying and serious in terms of democratic principles. Maybe you did it in good faith. I don't know, and I wonder. I do not know when you are acting in good faith or when you are hiding in Parliament. In any case, trust in the information transmitted to us is betrayed. I therefore ask, Mr Minister, that we stop this procedure, that we stop entrusting people who are not telling us the truth, who are hiding information, the choice of a new plane. I ask that Parliament be fully informed of how these studies have been requested. Why didn't you ask for them personally? Why have these studies finally been conducted? Who asked for them? What is the impact of these studies on whether or not to replace the F-16s today? You told us, "Who would agree to fly on 65-year-old planes?" All of a sudden, you come up with an argument that weakens or even destroys the conclusions of two studies requested by the Defence. As far as I am concerned, I ask you not to come up with arguments such as this, which no one can assess on the merits, but to provide us with solid, substantiated arguments: - the way in which we are proceeding today with the renewal of our aircraft; - on the reasons why some people have requested these studies concerning the extension of the use of F-16s: - on the budgetary impact; - on the military impact. I ask that our committee be able to hear the military officials, those responsible for these studies, i.e. those responsible for Lockheed and, where appropriate, independent experts. I am sorry to tell you, minister, but I no longer trust the Defence Staff's ability to conduct internal audits on these issues. There have been too many counter-truths; too many important documents have been hidden from us. We want to have an exercise that will finally allow Parliament to exercise its democratic control. We want to check whether or not the billions of euros we are talking about are indeed essential for the security of our country and for our reliability within the framework of international alliances, or whether, on the contrary, it is simply a matter of giving pleasure to a few officials of your staff who would ignore the real and objectified needs and would like to speed up a process that is not indispensable to date. I therefore raise a motion calling for the suspension of the procedure and for the government to commit itself, to Parliament, to make all the clarity on how all this has happened, so that we can ultimately make a good decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u64	Mr. Secretary, three points. It's been a long day for you, too. Firstly, there is no good reason not to share that information now. That gives us a bitter feeling, but you, too, perhaps. The funny thing is that this is actually the world upside down, in the sense that Lockheed tells us that a lifetime extension is possible. One of the potential suppliers tells us that. However, that information would be withheld by the Defence Summit, which is supposed to be more on the Belgian taxpayer's side than Lockheed. So it's totally the world upside down. I don't think there's any way to justify it. I invite you to make every possible contribution to this, in cooperation with Parliament. Let us form a front in this respect, a front for democracy and the rule of law. On that point, I do not believe that we are opposed to each other, I believe that we should form a front. I absolutely do not accept this, not as a representative of the people, not as a resident of this country, not as a citizen. The Americans seem to be more concerned with us than our own defense summit. That's totally crazy. For a second point, I will come to you. A file I am more familiar with is that of the nuclear power plants; that is less true of you. However, I can see how much effort your party is making, all the world's efforts, to ensure a lifetime extension of these ancient nuclear power plants. In this file, your party does the total opposite. You make absolutely no effort to map the life span of the existing fighter planes. That's the problem. So I'm sticking to my point. Of course, it is unfortunate that you have not been informed. However, it is equally a problem, perhaps even a bigger one, that you have not gone to look up that information yourself, that you have not put any more emphasis on it. Finally, as I have already said, it may not be the easiest day for you, rather a rather annoying day, a day that looked different than you had hoped yesterday and a day in which some have doubted your political future. Of course not all questions have been answered, but you can make it a very productive day. At the end of the day you can make a very productive day of it, with lots of good news for the Belgian taxpayer, at least if you start working on that information. That is my third point. I have heard a certain openness, not so much from Mr Grosemans, but from your speech. I'm just trying to remember the positive. I have also heard it from colleagues from the majority who say that we should not simply go on alone. This information is relevant. It's not a good day for the Defense Summit. It's been a tough day for you. A lot of questions remain about your political functioning. They will remain on the agenda for the next few days, but you can make it a very productive day if you work with that information instead of persevering in anger and persevering in the purchase of those expensive aircraft. You're responsible for that, and you do have those possibilities. I would like to invite you to make this day something beautiful, something positive, and then I think a lot of fellow countrymen, despite the annoying episode, will be very happy, because these are euros that we can use in a different, better way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u65	Thank you, Mr Calvo, for your empathic reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u66	Madam President, this afternoon we talked a lot about transparency and democracy. I believe that everyone has the right to transparency, not only here in Parliament, but also within the population. We are faced with concerns. This situation is extremely delicate. I started my speech earlier by asking the question: Who benefits from the crime, in the end? This question will remain pending until we have more information. However, I also asked the minister a supplementary question. It was intended to know his level of confidence in the staff. For me, it is extremely important to know how things will decode in the future. On the other hand, something surprises me. A question that is obvious to me has not yet been asked by any of my colleagues. On the one hand, we have a minister who did not have access to all the information. I hear here that at least one Member, or even two, has had access to e-mails and information that no one else has, not even the minister. Since everyone has the right to transparency and wants to shed light, let us begin by passing on to all members of the committee the e-mails and information available to some Members. Perhaps thanks to this, we will see more clearly! Madam President, I would be happy to ask that the possibility, or the desire, that I have to attach to the report all the documents available to Mr. Van der Maelen, as far as this is legally and administratively possible. Mr. Van der Maelen nevertheless mentioned elements and e-mails. Everyone should have this information so that we can have an informed and equal discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u67	Madam President, Minister, I expected you to come here to answer the questions with a little humility, because what is happening to you is not annoyed, is not thin. In addition to everything that my colleagues have said to you, I would like to tell you why we are making this a fundamental matter. Mr Minister, you may be unaware of this – I have no doubt that you are unaware of this in view of the management of your department and, in particular, your other powers in the field of public management; I believe that the conclusion is self-evident – but Europe is putting considerable pressure on Belgium to defuse itself and reach a debt-debt ratio of 60% of GDP. We are more than 100 per cent of GDP. One point of GDP is around 4.6 billion euros. So you see the path that remains to be taken! That is what has led your other colleagues, in particular the Minister for the Budget to come, from budget to budget, to try, as long as possible every year, to find several billion euros in order to be able to ensure precisely this trajectory of both resorption of deficits and de-indebtedness of the state. And, in spite of everything, it does not succeed, whereas, since the beginning of the legislature, social security has served as a cash drawer and which you have cut in the SNCB to name just a few examples, not to mention all the linear and drastic savings that you have imposed on all the departments. And, you, on a file of 15 billion euros, you tell us: "Ah, there were reports, two reports from the manufacturer, from the manufacturer, which told us that other solutions existed, including a much cheaper extension, but I was not informed." So, everyone was informed in your department except you. But what are you informed about? Are you still up to it, Minister? You tell us you don't understand why we're asking for suspension or cessation. We will tell you this: we no longer have confidence in your management of the case. She's been chaotic all along. You kept making confessions today. The file is not well-educated within your department. You yourself are not informed of the essential elements. How do you want us to trust you? Mr Minister, let us be clear: you have not convinced us of anything! For this reason, to the point where we are, not only are we asking for the procedure to be stopped, but we also ask that you be discharged from this file and that it be dealt with by the Prime Minister, that we do not fail to question in the days to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u68	Would you like to add something to this, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u69	I shall leave the last word to Parliament. All I have left is a personal thought. I always find it very nice to have everyone lecture and even defend themselves here as a member of the executive. Mr Laaouej, I have received a statement from you, to which I have listened very carefully and of which I have even subscribed a great deal. I ask you, what have you been doing all this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u70	Go on like this! Rendezvous in plenary!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u71	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Top and Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Alain Top and Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and the reply of the Minister for Defence, responsible for the civil service, asks the Minister of Defence - stop the replacement procedure immediately, - examine the lifetime extension of the F-16 devices as a serious option; - that the Defence Summit be held to account in the Committee on Defence." A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Dirk Van der Maelen and Alain Top read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Alain Top and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, asks the Minister of Defence - to terminate immediately the replacement procedure; - consider the possibility of extending the life of F-16s as a serious option; - that the staff be asked to justify themselves in the Defence Committee." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr. Ahmed Laaouej and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, request - the immediate suspension of the F-16 replacement procedure; - the organisation of an independent investigation into the organisation of the F-16 replacement market; - immediate communication of its results to Parliament." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Ahmed Laaouej and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and the reply of the Minister for Defence, responsible for the civil service, asks - suspend immediately the procedure for replacing the F-16s; - initiate an independent investigation into the organisation of the tender for the replacement of the F-16s; - to inform Parliament immediately of the results of that examination.' A third motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Dallemagne and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Georges Dallemagne and the response of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the Public Service, Requests the Government - suspend the current procurement procedure (under the RfGP) until the Chamber has fully clarified the entire procurement of new fighter aircraft, the reasons for which determined the procedures chosen, the analysis of all possible options in this case (including the extension of the F-16 and the French offer of strategic partnership); - to make it clear to Parliament (in particular by allowing all the actors concerned to come to answer the questions of parliamentarians in the framework of hearings in the Defence Committee) on political and military responsibilities in the decision to commission studies on a possible extension of the life of the F-16s and in the decision to hide these studies from Parliament and the Minister of Defence; - to conduct an external, neutral and independent investigation into the deficiencies thus found within the Defence in the management of the F-16 replacement file in order to determine the responsibilities of each and the lines of command and communication which were then activated." A third motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Georges Dallemagne and the reply of the Minister for Defence, responsible for the civil service, asks the government - suspend the current procurement procedure (under the RfGP) until the Chamber has fully clarified the entire purchase file for new fighter aircraft, the reasons underlying the chosen procedures, the analysis of all possible options in that file (including the extension of the lifetime of the F-16 aircraft and the French offer for a strategic party); - to inform Parliament fully (in particular by allowing all stakeholders to come and answer the questions put to them by Members in the context of hearings in the Defence Committee) on who is politically and militaryly responsible for deciding to order studies on a possible extension of the lifetime of the F-16 period and for the decision to conceal those studies from Parliament and the Minister of Defence; - to carry out an external, neutral and independent investigation into the dysfunctions thus identified by the Defence Department in the management of the file for the replacement of the F-16 service providers in order to determine the responsibilities of all those involved and to establish the command and communication lines, which were activated in that context." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Rita Bellens and Mr Peter Buysrogge, Richard Miller, Damien Thiéry, Dirk Van Mechelen and Veli Yüksel. A simple motion was tabled by Ms Rita Bellens and Messrs. Peter Buysrogge, Richard Miller, Damien Thiéry, Dirk Van Mechelen et Veli Yüksel. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u72	Madam President, I cannot fail to express my disappointment with regard to the Members of the majority. Today's debate was not just about a dossier, but about a file of EUR 15 billion, which was fundamentally pushed through. A number of Members of the majority have also spoken critically during this debate. However, these colleagues believe that they should simply sign the simple motion, which wipes the sponge over everything that has been said here today. I can only express my disappointment at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u73	Madam Chair, I had made a request regarding the documents available to Mr. Van der Maelen. I would not like this to be ignored, and I would like to see the documents that he quoted at the meeting available. At the same time, I would like him to be able to provide us with his sources. This seems obvious to me so that we can debate on an equal footing. Madam Chair, I would like to remind you that I am seeking the documents that Mr. Van der Maelen to support his intervention and his sources. I will always ask myself the question of who benefits from the crime!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u74	That is a direct question for Mr Van der Maelen to release the sources and the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u75	I have just twice suggested to the Minister that all mail traffic about the presentation in May 2016, the report of April 2017 and the report of February 2018 should be sent to the Committee. Then you will have more than you ask of me. Mr Thiéry, a Member of Parliament, like a journalist, never releases his sources.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u76	Mr Thiéry has the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u77	Mr Van der Maelen, dear colleague with whom we are working very well in general, I have no problem with that. I hear you're asking the minister to consult his e-mails on his side. So far, that's fine. And I also understand your willingness not to disclose your sources. Everyone will understand that. On the other hand, since we have now relied on "convinced exhibits" to ask questions, it is not normal for not everyone in this House to have the same information. I am simply asking that Mr. Van der Maelen, even if he does not want to reveal his sources, gives the e-mails in his possession to the parliamentarians. That's all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u78	Madam President, we must stop this circus!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u79	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u80	Mr Dallemagne, we respect the order: first Mr Calvo, then Mr Miller and then you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u81	I think Mr Thiéry's question is very cute, but it has something naive. Mr Van der Maelen would be an excellent Minister of Defence, but he is not. If someone can and must ensure transparency, that is the current Minister of Defence, so that question has been rightly formulated, both by the opposition and by the majority. In that sense, I also regret that the debate would simply be concluded with a simple motion. That would be a real injustice to the subject and would certainly not be an advertisement for our work. I would suggest, Madam President, that we allow this to take place, both the simple motion and the continuation of our work. Several possibilities have been suggested: they have been asked to hear the military summit, they have been asked to hear the authors of the study. Tomorrow we will be able to arrange for the work to be carried out. I also ask for the commitment of the majority not to simply settle the debate with a simple motion. That's a proper way of working. Then the Minister also had some time, because he had to get up early, just like Mr Vandenput. Then you will have time to sleep on it and think about how you want to work with Parliament on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u82	And then you come again, Mr Calvo. How lovely!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u83	Thank you, Madam President. I did not think I would reply, but I hear what our colleagues Van der Maelen and Calvo are criticizing our simple motion. Mr Van der Maelen, you have developed your point of view on the basis of elements. We've developed ours. You propose that we suspend or stop the procedure - there is still some variation. That is not our point of view at all. The view of our group, as I have expressed it, is that the procedure must be continued. It is clear that we asked what happened in the information transmission chain. Mr Van der Maelen, Mr Calvo, you are in opposition. We're in the majority. It is quite normal that, a priori, we trust the government to continue to manage this issue. [[Brouhahaha]] I explain why we tabled a simple motion. You will not make me believe, Mr Van der Maelen, Mr Laaouej, etc., that, with your parliamentary experience, you believed only one second in what you were saying, that suddenly the debate would be over. You know very well that we will still succeed in making it live through the democratic system in which we operate. All means will be used, etc. Through the signing of this simple motion, I meant that, for the MR, the procedure should continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u84	Madam President, I do not understand very well what I should call a double speech in the head of our colleagues in the MR. On the one hand, they explain to us that we need to put everything down, that we need transparency and clarity. We want to have a public debate on our motions. And the MR is tabling a simple motion that specifically aims to avoid this debate. There's a double speech here, Mr. Miller. We don't understand you very well. There is a lot of incoherence, probably a malaise. But this is almost an invitation to ask for the Prime Minister's presence in plenary on Thursday. I think that's what I'm going to ask. We are going to ask in plenary for the Prime Minister's presence to come and explain himself. Obviously, you're trying to avoid the debate. If we can't have it under the desired conditions, we'll ask...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u85	Mr. Laaouej, don't interpret... it's unpleasant!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u86	Everything is unpleasant, starting with the misleading dossier that we are presented here for 15 billion euros. We will therefore ask for the presence of the Prime Minister! We believe that Mr Vandeput is no longer in a position to deal with this issue. Obviously, he doesn't have all the information. That's what he's telling us and we'll see if it's any more serious than that. Clearly, there is a problem of trust in his administration, which becomes a black box. He's out of control. Not only must we have a debate with the Prime Minister, but the issue must also be transferred to him. That is what we will ask when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u87	Madam Chair, on the order of our business, I must confess that the Defence Minister's answers show that he is completely overwhelmed by his staff and that he is not in control of this matter. The Prime Minister must come and explain to us how he will manage this issue in the future. I also stress that Parliament, our committee, must take up this matter. I understand that we have the hearings of the people involved in this matter in the staff and Lockheed Martin, that we have full clarity on this matter and that we have access to all relevant documents. I am a little amused by our colleague's request. It is not up to Parliament to inform Parliament. If there are any pieces that would allow us to shed light on how this file has been managed so far, I would like to have access to them. I appeal to the colleagues of the MR: I would like to stress that our request for suspension of the current procedure is simply justified by the fact that it is those who have hidden information from us who have to decide on the renewal of the aircraft. I would not like to be in the place of the parliamentarians of the majority who today decide that this is not a problem. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u88	But yes, you said that! By proposing that these people continue to examine a file even though they have hidden some basic information from us, while they have set aside a very enlightening report that they know and should have been taken into account in the renewal of the fighter aircraft, you believe that the procedure can continue. I believe that this is an extremely serious matter, which obviously justifies putting an end to this procedure and checking whether the people who choose the future aircraft are not the same ones who have concealed the information on the possibility of extending the life of the aircraft. It is for this very reason that I am asking for the suspension of the procedure. Indeed, if this point had not been informed by Mr Van der Maelen's speech – whom I thank for having acted as a whistleblower on this issue – I would probably not have asked for it. Honestly, if you persevere in entrusting the choice of the future plane to people who have hidden reports and the truth from us, you take an overwhelming responsibility. And I wouldn't want to be in your place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u89	I am surprised at the opposition for tabling the simple motion. We did not submit it until we had a look at the motions of recommendation that were tabled. If they were not tabled, no simple motion had been tabled either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u90	(...) draw conclusions from this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u91	What is called for in the motions of recommendation is far more far-reaching. As Mr Miller said, its content is by no means supported by the majority. Therefore, there were not many options left other than the submission of a simple motion. The Minister has been very complete in his answers. He's made a number of commitments. We can agree with that. I also understand that there will be an arrangement on the agenda tomorrow. Further agreements can be made there. Everyone is, of course, free, Mr Laaouej, to question a member of the government or the Prime Minister at any time. That is everyone's parliamentary right, which should not be contained in a motion of recommendation or in a simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been very happy to be a part of Parliament and certainly of the opposition. That was a good time. Everyone here has to play the game and you ask some legitimate questions. The members of the committee know that I am also providing the information I can provide effectively. There is no need for a motion of any kind. Mr Thiéry, thank you for your question to bring the sources to your attention. But it is obvious that this is not possible. I would like to remind the committee members that, as soon as they know of illegal acts or of cases which are not legally correct, they have an obligation to pass that information on to the public by name.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u93	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u94	I do not have the resources you have, Mr Van der Maelen. I can't just request people's e-mails. In fact, I don't even think I have a legal basis for demanding e-mails. I'll check, but I'm not serious. We will do everything we can. I would just like to ask you to transfer information, which would prove criminal offences, to the court immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-20-54-commissie-ic848x.u95	If there are no further comments, the meeting shall be closed.
