ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, you know that the vast majority of this House is in favour of making the switch to renewable energy. That is why we have included the core step in the law. That is why your government has also decided to conclude an Energy Pact with the various governments of this country. That is why the core step must certainly be in the Energy Pact. But your government didn't even touch it, Prime Minister. At the end of last year we had an Energy Pact. Everyone or almost everyone was very happy about that, but your government didn't agree. You have, quite rightly, drawn the file to you. You even said: 'I will not let anyone torpedo this Energy Pact'. You then ordered a study, to buy time and to spawn the N-VA a little bit. Yesterday we heard all sorts of things from your Minister for Energy. We can only conclude that it was a good thing that you drew the file to you, because in the end we still do not know what will happen next. There have been statements in the press, but we could not see the study in itself. Prime Minister, you probably agree that walking to the press and informing Parliament is not a good way of working. This morning, however, we heard on the radio that, unlike yesterday, the Minister is prepared to give Parliament the study. My first question is therefore whether you can confirm that. Will we get the study in our mailbox today? My second question is even more important if possible. When will you ultimately decide on the Energy Pact? Almost everyone agrees with the core trip. The decision must be made quickly, because the investors need time for the alternatives. We need that decision now. You said last time that you would cut the buttons immediately after the study. When will the government decide so that we can finally make the switch to alternative energy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u3	Prime Minister, the map has never been so favourable to the breakthrough of renewable energy. Globally, a breakthrough of green, clean energy is seen. There has never been such a strong support in Parliament for the assertive roll-out of renewable energy. The public support has never been so great. Never before has there been so much entrepreneurship, so much desire to live up to that energy transition. So the cards are almost shaken. There are incredibly many possibilities, including in our country, to move forward, to get away from our place at the back of the rankings and to break through and unpack with green, clean energy, an important source of employment. However, there are still game breakers, Prime Minister. There is the N-VA, which is still trying to keep the old nuclear power stations open for a longer time, and there is also your energy minister, who, with her clumsy action, sometimes makes things unnecessarily difficult. You ordered a study, another study, perhaps the 27th study on the core trip. That study has now been completed and the Minister communicates about it in the press, but does not want to release it to Parliament. That way of working irritates and makes things more difficult. Bart Tommelein doesn't really think it's serious that he doesn't get the study either. I would therefore ask you not to give too much space to the game breakers and, above all, to move forward. I have two questions for you, Prime Minister. First of all, it is a good thing to declare that the study is there. It seems to show again what other studies are saying, namely: the core exit is still perfectly feasible. Can we get the study? Secondly, when can we finally expect a decision? It is high time to decide, to look ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is time for the truth: are you able to enforce your majority agreement, get out of nuclear power and shut down all nuclear power plants in 2025? More fundamentally, Prime Minister, are you able to provide future generations with safer and more sustainable energy and energy supply? In other words, with the Minister of Energy, are you able to enforce the government agreement by the N-VA? You announced yesterday to the press that the release of nuclear power would cost 15 euros per year per household. We asked for the study in question, you refused to give it. I am very pleased that, thanks to the pressure from Parliament, the Prime Minister will hand it over to us. I had asked Mrs Marghem yesterday to ask the government to do so this morning. It can be said that Parliament is still serving something! And I was afraid that we would not have a democratic debate on this issue, since you do not like it. Apart from that, Prime Minister, 15 euros a year is not nothing for households. We know that the electricity bill is already very expensive. (Brouhaha) Mr President, I ask for some respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that you make less noise and listen more carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u6	I said that 15 euros a year, it weighs in household bills. I wouldn't want them to get out of nuclear power. I think they're already having a lot of trouble finishing their end of the month. It would be enough, Mr Prime Minister, to bring down VAT from 21 % to 6 %, as we did under the previous government, for households to recover more than 150 euros a year. As a result, leaving nuclear power would not cost them. Prime Minister, we ask you to get this study back to us as soon as possible, after which we, together with the President, will hold a democratic debate in this Parliament. Prime Minister, when will you present the Energy Pact for the exit of nuclear power? The longer the time passes, the less we will have the ability to get out of nuclear power and we will have to build new gas plants. Are you prepared to reduce VAT from 21 % to 6 % to prevent the exit of nuclear power from having a cost to households?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in December 2017, we took note of an important document within the Council of Ministers. That document is a draft energy pact proposed by the various energy ministers of this country, the federal level and the Länder. That was a second important step. I do not need to repeat here that a few months ago we approved an important agreement in the context of Burden Sharing. In previous years, it had not been easy to agree on another very important commitment to be able to enforce our international commitments. With the government, I am consistent and consistent. Since December, we have had the opportunity to debate the subject on several occasions and I have, in fact, indicated that we not only wanted to implement the law passed in 2015, which provides for the release of nuclear energy in 2025, but also to take into account at the same time the requirements of the government agreement, which I hope are widely shared. There are four main principles: security of supply, the impact of an energy pact on future tariffs for companies and families, security of infrastructure and, of course, respect for our international commitments. I am thinking in particular of the Paris agreements. I received the figures yesterday and we now have three additional documents. That was a decision of the government, we had asked for more information and more figures before the final arbitration on this matter. Three documents: the first is a report from the Planning Bureau, the second is the Albrecht report and the third is from PwC. They were shared this morning in the Council of Restricted Ministers. I have indeed asked the minister in charge of the matter, to share them with the governments of the federated entities and with Parliament. So now, wisely, rationally, calmly, serenely and relaxedly, we will analyse the complementary documents. [[...]] Thank you for your support and encouragement on this subject. Mrs Temmerman, I said a few weeks ago that there will be an Energy Pact in 2018. We will fully honour this commitment. We will therefore work very intensively, on the basis of the supplementary documents, in the days and weeks to come. Every effort will be made to ensure that, as soon as possible and in any case in 2018, an energy pact is concluded so that a clear signal can be given to families, businesses and investors. Finally, last point, I repeat, we have already done a great deal for the energy transition. We'll keep going. We are the second country in Europe, after France, to have issued green bonds. I announced it at the end of last year. It has been a reality since the beginning of this year. We have made very important arrangements for wind farms in the North Sea, with respect to federal jurisdiction. We are very committed to honouring our commitments, but by doing so in a measured, responsible manner and by ensuring that we take into account for today, for tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, the requirements of security of supply, of the impact in terms of tariffs for consumers, whether they are individuals or businesses. You see that we are consistent and consistent. We will continue this work in order to make decisions on this subject too, as we have demonstrated, over the past three years, our ability to decide on difficult, delicate but essential topics for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u8	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. It is positive in that you remain behind the Energy Pact. We've got all the numbers now. However, you did not answer the question of whether we could also receive the study. I heard from Mrs Marghem this morning that she will give the study. I would like to hear from you the confirmation that we will actually get this study in Parliament. Prime Minister, you should know very well that there is a very broad majority in this House to put this Energy Pact on track. I therefore suggest that you leave the obstacles aside and move forward in order to deliver on this Energy Pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u9	Mr Prime Minister, you have clearly committed yourself to making the study available, for which I thank you. I just wonder why yesterday all this trouble and extra difficulties were created by Mrs Marghem, but well, we will read the study with great attention. It already seems that this study, too, shows once again that the core exit is within reach, that we can achieve this. That's good news. I would also like to ask you once again not to take too much account of the N-VA which is always looking backwards. They dream of nuclear power plants that remain open until 2065. Meanwhile, the rest of Parliament knows that this is totally crazy. I would like to invite you not to take this too much into account. I would also ask you, Prime Minister, if you make a decision, to make that 110 percent clear. Our energy market is looking for legal certainty. So no decision with ifs and buts, with a lot of question marks. That decision must be 110 % clear, so that we can start building, create jobs and finally give the signal that we are beginning to build the future here and now. I hope we will hear that from you soon. There will certainly be incredible enthusiasm in Parliament once that decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u10	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer and your intention to forward this study to us. On the other hand, you don't give us a timing in 2018. However, I believe that action should be taken in the coming weeks because, as you know, the invitation to tender must take place very quickly. Time is playing against us. Time plays out for nuclear power. Some of your government's partners know that very well. I didn't hear you either on the Energy Pact. It was voted by the Walloon government and the Brussels government, for which the exit of nuclear power will take place in 2025. This parliament has a majority in favour of the release of nuclear power in 2025. I would therefore like that confirmation to be made here and now. Exit must be guaranteed with lower costs for families and businesses. I therefore invite you to act within a few weeks and not by the end of 2018. We need an answer. The exit of nuclear power must be confirmed, as your government agreement says.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, since the judgment of the Court of Justice, we have known that the ARCO savers are shareholders. One of your coalition partners would rather not believe or confirm that, but they already like to honour the principle of "own pillar first." Shareholders are shareholders and they must be treated equally. Many cities and municipalities were also Dexia shareholders through the Municipal Holding. They also lost a lot of money. Many municipalities have already collected that money back through their taxpayers. The Walloon association of cities and municipalities considers that, like the ARCO cooperatives, it is entitled to compensation. It asks for EUR 220 million, based on the principle of equality. Prime Minister, you know that my group does not really believe in the magic formula currently being worked out by very expensive lawyers. In our view, you will conflict with state aid, but certainly with the principle of equality. It is not possible to reimburse only ARCO shareholders. You will also have to compensate other shareholders, such as Dexia shareholders and, by extension, the Fortis shareholders. Mr. Secretary, breaking a potty is paying for us. Movement.net has cheated on her co-opers, which is like a pillar above water. We therefore believe that they should pay the compensation. You have now drawn this file to you, one of so many. My question is therefore whether the Walloon association of cities and municipalities has set you a path in the hive? Does this have an effect on your magic formula? I would have liked to have gotten an update on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, there is a commitment in the coalition agreement to an ARCO solution, a scheme for natural persons co-operatives. That is a first point. Secondly, I have indeed, like you, been aware of the communication of the Walloon cities and municipalities in recent days. Thirdly, you also know that there is no secret, it has been communicated that, in the context of Belfius' potential exchange, the government will take a final decision at the beginning of March on a possible start of a procedure. We are working hard with various lawyers to analyse the situation and to find out what solution is possible. That is not easy, because we have to take many legal elements into account. The intention is to clarify this in the next few weeks, taking into account the legal reality. It is now too early to answer these questions definitively. I confirm the political will of the government to develop an ARCO solution, in accordance with the coalition agreement, and a fortiori in the context of a possible but not yet definitively decided procedure in the context of the Belfius Stock Exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. I look forward to the beginning of March 2018, as you replied, and to the magic formula. You're gonna need a lot of magical powers to make things happen. After all, you say that the aspect of natural persons is in the coalition agreement, which is also true. However, shareholders are shareholders and there is also something like the principle of equality. But don't get us wrong. As far as our group is concerned, the 800 000 ARCO co-operatives must be compensated. However, we do not think that the taxpayer should pay that fee. After all, the taxpayer did not cheat on the ARCO coordinator. It's Movement.net who cheated on his co-opers. Movement.net could also achieve that compensation perfectly. The story of Pontius Pilates should not sound strange in the ears. You can't wash your hands of innocence. The same goes, of course, for hand-picking. I can't do that either. Therefore, I do not understand why Beweging.net does not catch the bull by the horns and is already working out an arrangement. I realize, however, that it is easier to go to the cow's udder and thus to the udder of the state treasury.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u14	Mr President, Minister Antwerp is today the European capital of cocaine trafficking. I'm not the one who says it, it's what we read in the national and international press in recent days. This phenomenon is not new since the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction already reported that the port of Antwerp was the hub of cocaine trafficking in 2014, 2016 and 2017. The latest figures show that seizures have changed. We went from 5 tons of cocaine seized in 2014 to 40 tons last year. Unfortunately, however, this is not a reflection of an increase in customs controls, but rather of an explosion in cocaine trafficking in the port of Antwerp. Moreover, there is not only the traffic that exploded in Antwerp. The director of the Antwerp PJF has recently been told that the violence accompanying cocaine trafficking has also exploded. Today, we are settling our accounts at the Kalashnikov in the streets of Antwerp! Minister, yesterday I read in the press that you were announcing a plan. But what have we done for three years? As we know, since you took office, there have been budget cuts; the Federal Judicial Police has lost almost $10 million for the hiring of staff. Have these budget cuts not had an influence on the fight against drug trafficking? You also announced the engagement of 80 people in a task force. Are these commitments really a sufficient way to solve the problem in Antwerp? What is the state of the forces on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State, there is a major drug problem in Antwerp, which is internationally renowned for its safe and screened port. Our customs were a model for the world with its truck scanning system. This Parliament witnessed the installation of this performant system a few years ago. Mr Jambon, you were there at the time, as a Member of Parliament, when this fantastic system was proposed that any truck could screen its contents, making it possible to determine exactly what enters our country. In recent years, however, this system has been very often defective, which means that only a very small percentage of containers are screened, resulting in tons of cocaine entering through the port of Antwerp. The drug mafia makes some neighborhoods unsafe, attracts young people into crime and ruins the social fabric in the city. We cannot tolerate that. The war on drugs is extremely difficult to win, but we must never close our eyes or give criminals the freedom to do so. That problem can't solve a city, a local police, alone. This requires a chain approach. The Power Plan that you have proposed will work on that. There will be a task force bringing all the services around the table, namely the local and federal police, the city administration, the parquet, customs, the tax authorities, the social inspection services and even the American DEA. Only by putting all the pieces on the table, only by chasing the cogs in the drug network, can we tackle and solve this problem. The Power Plan will allow for thorough work. For example, not only the tip of the iceberg, the drug criminals themselves, but also the rest of the iceberg, the accomplices and the criminal side business. Secretary of State De Backer is rightly committed to tackling the informal economy and shady commercial practices, with commercial matters that are often used for money laundering. This also applies to many port workers who are blackmailed against will and thanks and are sucked into crime. Better screening is necessary. In that connection, I have three questions. When does the task force start? Will the port workers be screened more strictly? In what way will the Americans be involved in these operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Thiébaut, Mr Thiébaut, Mr Thiébaut, Mr Thiébaut, Mr Thiébaut, Mr Thiébaut, Mr Thiébaut, Mr Thiébaut, Mr Thiébaut, Mr Thiébaut, Mr Thiébaut, Mr Van Biesen has already provided some answers to your question in his speech. It is amazing to see how this Parliament works together!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u17	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u18	It's just him, but now I'm going to engage the government with my answer, which is going to have about the same content as Mr. Van Biesen. Mr Thiébaut, thank you for your analysis of the situation in Antwerp. However, we had already done that a few months ago, and we presented the action plan yesterday. Analysis is one thing, but it is the action that is currently on the agenda. What are we doing to tackle the situation in Antwerp? Finally, I would say, we put together all the services concerned, and this literally, by bringing them under the same roof. These include the local police – of course – the federal police, prosecutors' offices, economic, social and financial inspection services, and customs. As you said, we start with a task force of 30 to 40 people, and we will increase the number of people to 70 or 80. Here's the original plan. It is clear that we will reassess things every month. If it is necessary to modify or increase capacity, we will do so. Where do these numbers come from? They come from different services. Initially, the 30 to 40 people will be separated from the various services. This will take place next week. The increase to 80 people will surely require the recruitment of experienced staff into the relevant services, who can be separated to this task force without any additional gaps in basic services. Here's the plan and the schedule. Mr Van Biesen, I come to your questions. For starters, the DEA is already active here. There is a cell in Belgium that actually follows the drugs problem for the whole of Europe. The DEA is very interested in what we are doing here. There are arrangements to exchange information with them. Then, with regard to the screening of persons, there is a misconception that not only the workers will be screened. Mr De Backer will deal with this in a moment. It is intended to have bona fide people in crucial functions, which the drug cartels might try to bribe. A law was passed by Parliament on 18 January. It is this law on the National Security Authority, which we will use to screen these people. I am convinced that we are tackling this phenomenal problem firmly. It is not just Antwerp. However, the port of Antwerp is an economic engine of our country and we owe it to ourselves to try to control that problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u19	Mr President, as Minister Jambon has already pointed out, it is good that the various services should work together better. They are physically put together, will be able to exchange data and go on the road together to tackle the drugs problem in our country and in Antwerp in particular. Co-operation with abroad is also crucial to obtain data but also to improve cooperation on, for example, the lines to Latin America where many drugs come from. It is a good step forward that we are finally taking action to tackle this problem. Of course, there is also undermining from the inside. As Mr Van Biesen rightly pointed out, it is very clear at times that people are being approached in crucial positions, both in private companies and in port workers, to see how they can do certain things for the criminal environment for a fee. That is why I have advocated that risk profiles should be used to see how screening can be done. That's also included in the plan. We need to see how people get access to the port. That's important. That will be done by the National Security Authority. We approved the law together on 18 January and we will use it to carry out the screenings and to ensure that the people who are bribed can be caught. At the same time, those who do act fairly will also be better protected. After all, it does not make sense for us at the airport to screen someone who comes in the morning to lubricate sandwiches, while someone who treats in port day and day from goods entering our country would not be screened. One last point I would like to take up is something to do with the social inspection. We know that the white gold that enters our country also generates black money. That black money finds its way into shady business, into carwashes, into real estate. There are sometimes garages located on the third floor of an apartment building. Well, we will now check these matters, with the social inspection services and with the labour auditors, to ensure liveable work in Antwerp, for more space for honest traders and for the neighborhood in Antwerp finally to be cleaned up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would also like to thank my colleague, who has come largely in support of the members of the government on this issue. Mr. Minister, you are telling us that you were already aware of the problem three months ago. I know there was a meeting with Mr. Geens in Antwerp. You've been informed of the problem. But that was three months ago. I'm talking about findings already made in 2014, four years ago. I think it's a long time. Four years to react, it's too long. Your plan, in my opinion, is very late. In my view, the degraded image of Antwerp, the European capital of cocaine trafficking, is also attributable to its manager. The mayor, who so much likes and so often gives lessons to everyone, has frankly not been effective in this matter, in the fight against organised crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u21	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, you will not be surprised that this firm approach is the right approach for my party. However, I must point out that the time to implement all this is limited, as the drugs problem in and around Antwerp and the drug penal system through the port of Antwerp is clear and unambiguous. I therefore hope that I will be able to stand here again in a few weeks to discuss the result, a clean Antwerp port.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u22	Mr Minister, this week the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a judgment in which it equates on-call working time by volunteer firefighters with working time as such. I quote: "The on-call time that a worker is forced to move to his home, with the obligation to respond to his employer's calls within eight minutes – which very significantly restricts the possibility of performing other activities – must be considered as working time". The Court thus decided a question referred by the Brussels Labour Court in a case between voluntary firefighters and the City of Nivelles. It is now up to the national court to decide whether it abounds in the sense of the European judgment and, if so, then to decide on the amounts due. However, this new judgment is clearly likely to have effects that go far beyond the scope of this judicial case. First, the financing of the compensation that would be due from the relief zones would have a considerable impact on the communal finances. Secondly, the Union of Cities and Municipalities invoked the risk that would now be placed on the status of professional firefighters. Therefore, Deputy Prime Minister, my questions will be as follows. If the European judgment were to set a precedent and be applied to all Belgian volunteer firefighters, what solution do you envisage? And even what would be your tangible proposals to relieve the relief areas of this new financial burden? In the same case, could you give us an estimate? Is the administration reviewing the amounts involved? Furthermore, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, in response to the fears of the Union of Cities and Municipalities, can you tell me what the impact would be on the status of volunteer firefighters? Similarly, what about the now exclusive use of professional firefighters? How do you plan to respond? This morning, I made a small calculation, noting that a volunteer firefighter who starts a guard Monday morning until Tuesday noon would perform his thirty-eight hours. A professional firefighter who would find himself in this case seems to me to be an illuminating example. I would therefore like to hear from you on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u23	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered its judgment in response to the questions referred to it for a preliminary ruling on the problem of firefighters in Nivelles. In order to respect the separation of powers, I will take an oratory precaution: I do not want to embarrass you or wish you to express yourself on the merits of this judgment or on the argument developed by the lawyers of each other. However, I would like to ask you about your reading of this judgment and the scope that you give it not only with regard to the Nivelles firefighters, since it is up to the labour court to interpret it and to take a decision on it, but, beyond that, because there is reason to question the impact on the overall regime of voluntary firefighters in Belgium. I would like to point out that the latter are a central part of the organisation of civil security in Belgium. It is therefore a matter of taking care of this pillar, which requires fair remuneration and legal and financial security, particularly for the managers of the rescue zones. However, this judgment raises questions as to its impact. On the one hand, we hear hopes for increased remuneration for guards and, on the other hand, concerns in the head of local authorities about the additional costs that can be generated and their support. There is a question and concern. The Union des Villes et Communes is developing a nuanced analysis suggesting that the stoppage may not have an impact on the overall regime of volunteer firefighters because this regime is based more on the deliberate availability of volunteers and not on an obligation to be present at home. Do you share this analysis? So what is your reading of this judgment? You suspect, Minister, that your answer is very much expected both by the volunteer firefighters and by the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u24	Mr Minister, yesterday the European Court published a judgment stating that the waiting time of the voluntary fire brigade should be treated as working time. In fact, it is suggested that there should be compensation for this, which is actually the competence of the Member States. The reason was a 2009 case. In Nivelles, 36 volunteers denounced the system at the time. They were wondering how voluntary it would be if they had to be on call from home and be in the barracks within eight minutes? That was then the arrangement with their then postal commander. I can imagine. Since then, your predecessor, Mrs Milquet, has drawn up a circular on this subject, and you too have been working hard on the status of the voluntary fire brigade. I believe that it is now being confirmed that our assistance is really based on those volunteers. Let me sum it up as follows: our voluntary fire department can be on call. We effectively ask for a minimum commitment. You can click on or off the callability via a software system. But there is absolutely no point in being callable from home. On the contrary. We have 12 000 volunteer pompiers. That's three-quarters of the total. I can imagine that they say in the first instance: this is interesting, there will be an additional fee. But this morning I had informal contact with the Flemish Firefighter Volunteers Association (VVB) which says that such a system is untenable and priceless. Hence my brief questions to you, Minister; I know that you also love the volunteers. Firstly, do you think that this judgment issued on the basis of a 2009 case also applies to the current legal personality of the aid zones? Let us hope not. Secondly, if so, what would be the impact on our volunteers? I suspect you will agree that this would be priceless.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u25	Mr Minister, the Court of Justice of the European Union has given a decision on the delicate issue of firefighters' on-call time. The on-call time that a worker is forced to move home is now considered to be working time. We are pleased that the matter has been resolved. Volunteer firefighters are dedicated to the service of safety, sometimes at the expense of their family life and even their lives simply. It is now established in law that on-call periods are periods of work! This decision affects 12,500 volunteer firefighters and will therefore have a certain financial impact, which will have to be faced in order to enable the relief areas to maintain the high level of protection they offer to the population. Mr Minister, I hope there is no question of having these efforts carried out by the municipal authorities. Are you going to take budgetary measures so that the continuity of service is not affected by this court decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u26	Mr President, Minister, we all know that there are 18 000 firefighters in Belgium. Of those 18 000 firefighters there are 12 000 volunteers. CD&V has always asked for and fought for the voluntary firefighter's status to be good. The voluntary nature shows their motivation and ensures that the entire civil claim remains affordable. We all know that voluntary firefighters are not responsible for fighting fires purely or usually. On the contrary, they are usually there for the provision of urgent medical care. What's specific about urgent medical attention? That's that she can't be scheduled. The aid worker must, as it were, wait until he or she has to intervene. Yesterday, the European Court of Justice indicated that this waiting time should become working time. As you know, the waiting period is not paid in Belgium. If it turns out that the waiting period must also be paid as a working time, then we have a major problem. It puts the voluntary firefighter's system at risk and causes a high cost. However, my main concern is that voluntary firefighters will eventually become completely unaffordable. That's why I have three small questions for you. What do you think are the consequences for the operation of our Belgian fire services? Do you have any solutions for these consequences? To what extent does the ruling of the European Court of Justice jeopardise the provision of services?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, as you said, the Court of Justice of the European Union did say yesterday about volunteer firefighters. My services and colleagues are currently reviewing this judgment, which dates from yesterday afternoon, but in the interests of clarity, I still want to add some elements. The judgment concerns a case prior to the reform of the fire services. The facts date back to 2009, well before that reform. At the time, the mobilization and flexibility of volunteer firefighters were treated in some way in the Nivelles area. It was a little special. The volunteer firefighter was required to stay at his home and was expected to arrive at the barracks within eight minutes of the call. This was stipulated in the status of volunteer firefighters in Nivelles. A penalty was even provided for those who arrived late. In this case, the Court ruled, but since the reform of the fire services, the availability of volunteers is governed by a Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 on the administrative status of fire services and by a circular of 22 April 2014 on the organisation of the availability of fire service volunteers. The Royal Decree and the circular letter give the availability of the volunteers a completely different interpretation. Mr Metsu has just put it fairly well. Firstly, it is agreed with the volunteers when they are available. Secondly, most zones have a technology that allows the volunteer to report as available, or vice versa that allows the volunteer to log out in unforeseen circumstances and not be available. That is why no sanctions are provided for. The context is therefore completely different from the scheme in force in Nivelles in 2009. Many of you have said that we should indeed be very grateful, first and foremost for the work done by the entire fire organization, and in particular for the 12 000 volunteers, who enable us to organise the fire brigade in this way. I would therefore like to thank them for all these efforts. Before going into the matter in concrete terms, I await the study. I assume that we will be able to discuss this in greater detail in the Committee on the Interior next week. In my reply today, I wanted to say in particular that the case of Nivelles no longer corresponds to the current implementation after the reform of the fire zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer and the various clarifications you have given us today. It is clear that the debate is not over. As some colleagues have said, we are not here to interfere in a legal decision but to see how this decision can be followed up, how to take a position on our fire areas. Both impacts are there. You have just clarified the budgetary impact, but there is also an impact on volunteer firefighters. They are close to 12,000 and perform remarkable work. They're centerpieces in our areas. I come from a rural commune and we realize how much they are essential. We shall return to the debate. I think within eight days, you'll have more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer. Nothing you said is questionable. I agree with your analysis. You are cautious and I understand that you are waiting for a more complete analysis from your services. At the same time, previous decisions, some of which date back to 2012, were already in the direction just confirmed. So the deal is not completely new. Once the studies have been completed, it seems to me important to send a communication to all the relief areas. For the time being, uncertainties are leading to discussions that are detrimental to the safety of stakeholders. It is not a question of knowing who will win between volunteer firefighters or rescue zone managers, but of finding a system to reassure each other, which guarantees fair remuneration and legal and financial security. I invite you to contribute to this by issuing, if necessary, a circular or by sending the analyses to all emergency areas when they are completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u30	Mr President, I too would like to thank the Minister. Apparently, we're all saying the same thing. It goes without saying that both our professional firefighters and our volunteers are doing their job with heart and soul. It is a passion for them and very often also a calling. It's often in the blood, too. I myself belong to the Edge relief zone with 21 municipalities. You know them very well yourself. Of the 850 employees there are 800 volunteers. There is an atmosphere of uncertainty. You are prepared to give some clarification. There is even the impression that this is the end of the voluntary fire brigade. I can hear you say very clearly that this is not the case. Neither you nor we intend to do so, quite the contrary. The system would become literally priceless. We warmly support the volunteers because they are figuratively priceless. I understand that we will discuss this next week. Let's continue to argue for their job.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u31	Mr Minister, I obviously agree with what has been said about the importance of volunteer firefighters in organising an area. You wanted to be reassuring. But I'm not at all reassured. Scalded cat sucks cold water! The municipalities have already been rolled over concerning the police areas. We were told that the merger would not cost the police a single Belgian franc (at the time). For the rescue zones, we have always been told that it would be half-half. I can prove to you by a + b that this is not necessarily the case. Ms Cassart asked about the financial impact. I can tell him that for the area of Picardy Wallonia, which covers 19 communes, it would in my opinion cost more or less 1.3 million euros. Have you not answered the question of who will pay if this stop is applicable in the future? Above all, answer me: "Not the communes"!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u32	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand that you cannot express your opinion in full. For us, it is important that we have continued appreciation for the voluntary but also for the professional fire, that the service is maintained, but that everything remains affordable. So I think we will see each other in the committee over the next few weeks and hopefully we will be able to get more clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u33	Mr President, Minister, on February 9, a police operation took place in a cultural centre on the premises of the Globe Aroma Arts Association. Of those present there, it appears that seven persons were without a legal residence permit: five of them were released after several hours at the police station, while two others were reportedly taken to the 127bis closed centre and are still believed to be there today. This police operation was ordered by the Federal Police and it appears that the Brussels-Ixelles police area was invited to participate. This operation has given rise to strong protests and a certain astonishment. Why intervene in this place, even if it was perhaps to verify the identity of some people? Minister, it appears that it would have been stated to the director of the association that the operation was justified for reasons of social inspection. Other sources refer to control in the context of the BELFI plan or the Canal Plan, even though the mayor of the City of Brussels denies that this ASBL is known for any connection with the world of radicalism or even radical Islamism. Therefore, before making any judgment, Minister, I would like to understand the reasons for this operation. Who ordered it? What services were associated, outside the federal and zonal police services? What was his legal motivation? What was the objective pursued? What is the fate of those who have been arrested and who, to date, have not been released? What is their legal situation? What conclusion do you draw from the report requested by the mayor of the City of Brussels on this operation? As I said, he seems to dispute that the reasons for this operation are, in particular, justified by the Canal Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u34	Minister, I would also like to talk about the operation of 9 February last, a coordinated action between the local police, the federal judicial police and a number of other inspection services. In addition, a number of illegal immigrants who refused to leave the country would have been arrested. This case gives rise to further comments. It is said that excessive violence has been used, that it has gone too far and that certain things cannot be tolerated. I must say that I have a bit of a problem with such statements in advance, because it is very common in recent times that certain matters are considered to be enlarged or proven, even though they have not yet been examined or even proved that the evidence cannot be provided afterwards. For example, the committee meeting on 22 December on torture. Afterwards, nothing has been proven, but at that meeting there were criminal statements made. I have the following questions, Minister. Did the 9 February action fit into the Channel Plan? Was there proportional or disproportionate violence used? Are certain services out of order? Were any illegals arrested who refused to comply with an order to leave the territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u35	Minister, Friday 9 February, the opening of an exhibition should have been a good time, but what is happening? Suddenly the police are at the door. About twenty people invaded just at that beautiful moment of opening the exhibition, apparently with a lot of show of power. Possible reasons that are indicated are a control of non-profit-making legislation, the social inspection, there is also the DVD. There's a lot of uncertainty. Could the Channel Plan have been invaded? The Channel Plan identifies organised economic and financial crime, but it is strange to invade it on that basis. For the record, associations are not above the law. Associations should also be able to obtain controls: tax control or control on the basis of non-profit organisations legislation. The authorities that finance also carry out checks on these associations. That is not a problem in itself, but the only question is what is really going on here. The organization is special, because she works with refugees on cultural projects. There is therefore a certain sensitivity to the effect. Also, the persons who cooperate are not asked to communicate their residence status. I've heard a lot of elements. The mayor of Brussels is critical of the action. This morning I hear Flemish Minister Sven Gatz in the Flemish Parliament answering questions. He says: it was not a question of the social inspection, not of the auditor, it was an initiative of the local police. I hear my colleague say: it is a coordinated action by the federal police. This morning I hear you say it was by order of the Attorney General. Everyone shoots at everyone. Minister, I finally want to know what actually happened. Who gave the order? What was the occasion? Was that part of the Channel Plan? Was that in the context of a judicial investigation? Was that in the context of evidence of organised crime? What procedure has been followed? Did a judge intervene? I think it is essential that there are clear answers to that. Otherwise we cannot know exactly what has happened and whether the procedures have been correctly applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u36	Mr Minister of the Interior, we have learned with great astonishment the intervention of some 20 police officers in a cultural centre in Brussels on 9 February. The stories are cold in the back. Cultural representation was to take place. Police officers arrived and stuck people on the floor with some verbal and physical violence. I hope you will provide us with a little more information on the facts in your answer. Seven people were arrested that night, two of whom are still in detention today. These include Mounir, a CSC activist, who is very active in defending the rights of undocumented workers working on construction sites. If you have the opportunity to visit the exhibition of the Arts-Loi metro station, you will see the famous Mounir in question. He is present in a photo, because he was at the time working on these sites. He was present that night as part of this mobilization. That is what is cold in the back, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, it was the people who organized solidarity who had been the victims of visits by police officers. As in the context of the debate on home visits, this is an intimidation directed against all cultural actors and those active in the NSOs who are now working to integrate these people. You show these people with your big finger: "Look at them! They don't fit in." When an ASBL works to organize this solidarity, twenty-five police officers arrive at her home. It's really the world upside down! Who is responsible for this operation? Everyone rejects the ball. We don't know. In Belgium, it is apparently possible to conduct a police operation with 25 officers and not to know, two weeks later, who requested it. Did it take place as part of the BELFI Plan, the Canal Plan or the Social Inspectorate? Has it taken place at the request of the mayor of Brussels, at the federal level? We still don't know. This is crazy. I am really glad that the minister is about to answer us and give us the information, two weeks after the facts! Minister, I have two questions for you. Who decided on this operation? What do you know about the acts of violence perpetrated that night?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u37	Mr President, thank you. Colleagues, as you mentioned, a BELFI control action took place on Friday 9 February at around 4 p.m. at the ASBL Globe Aroma in Brussels. BELFI is a multidisciplinary programme, involving various agencies, managed by the Judicial Police (DR 5) and placed under the supervision of the Attorney General and the Brussels Labour Auditor. Its objective is to "control legal persons suspected of involvement in or support of violent radicalism or suspected of being infiltrated by persons related to violent radicalism or related phenomena". Related phenomena are those related to the illegal trade in drugs, weapons or false documents. BELFI already existed before the implementation of the Canal Plan but is part of its judicial component. In the case of the ASBL Globe Aroma, the local police in Brussels themselves requested the action to be taken. I am formal in this regard. As soon as a party requests such action, the initiative is taken by the platform which prepares the BELFI actions and in which the local police, the federal police and the social inspectorate participate. The decision was taken collegially. The action demonstrates that the culture of multidisciplinary collaboration between different departments during control actions is clearly rooted in morals. The audit focused on a dozen legal entities, varying in nature and legal form. The action I am formally entitled to was not directed specifically at people without papers, but following those checks with those ten people and with Globe Aroma, indeed a number of people without papers or with the order to leave the territory have been detained. The time and manner in which action is taken, as well as the deployment of police personnel, shall be determined in the BELFI platform. The information I have received shows that the action has generally been carried out without incident and that the persons under control also cooperated in the action. A number of those present refused to comply with the notice issued by the police forces, although the police considered it to be courteous and within the legal framework. They then called for reinforcements of police officers in uniform. So much for the facts. I believe that the action is 100% legitimate. As regards the way in which the action was carried out by the police, an investigation is currently under way by the P Committee. Please do not ask me to comment on this. I propose that we wait for the report of the P Committee and then draw the conclusions. The action is for my part 100% legitimate and all procedures have been followed. We await the report of the Committee P for implementation in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u38	I would like to thank the Minister for providing more precise information on the conditions of this intervention, which, in fact, raised more than questions. I note that there does not appear to have been any judicial arrests as a result of this operation, in relation to the objective pursued by the judicial authorities. But we cannot comment on it either, since this is obviously the secret of the judicial authorities. In the meantime, I would like to thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I welcome the clarity you have provided and the fact that everything has been legitimate. We will indeed await the examination of the P Committee, but at first sight these people certainly did not go beyond their bounds. I agree with you, Mr Van Hecke, when you say that these non-profit organisations must not escape control. We have the same idea about that. Control of these non-profit organisations, and especially those Brussels non-profit organisations, is certainly not an unnecessary luxury, after what we have heard and read in recent days. That is why I have another message for the PS colleagues, and in particular for Mrs Lalieux, who probably already left for the city hall in Brussels: the action of 9 February certainly took place at market prices. You can count on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. So this is not about the Channel Plan. That would not have been possible either, because the conditions would not have been met. It's about BELGIUM. The DR5 of the federal police is involved when it comes to suspicions of radicalism of people or organisations. In fact, you say that, according to the information received, there were indications that radicalised people would be active in that organisation or would have stayed there. That is a very serious, indirect accusation for that organization, not from you, but from the services that set up the operation. I refer to Minister Gatz' reply this morning. He has said that Globe Aroma is perfectly fine, in terms of accountability and so on, and that there is no indication that anything would have gone wrong there. Yet the operation was set up. We have also seen a nice piece of the Belgian ping-pong championship here. When asked who is responsible and who took the initiative, the ball was constantly sent to each other. I note that the initiative or question was apparently based on the Brussels local police. I hope that she had enough elements to put this whole action in place, because if it turned out that nothing was going on afterwards, then an entire organization would have been put into a bad light. So I look forward to the report and not just to find out more about the behaviour of the police themselves. I also hope that the investigation will reveal whether there were sufficient indications and elements to go into that action. That is absolutely essential to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u41	Minister of the Interior, it is many suspicions of terrorist activity – in other words, heavy accusations – that have been invoked to justify the arrival of twenty to twenty-five police officers at the headquarters of this ASBL. I hope that Committee P's investigation will shed light on this case. In any case, such an intervention is not decided lightly. I hope, minister, that we cannot go back to the offices of any party in such a cavalier way. This case is very worrying. I therefore hope that the investigations carried out by Committee P will make it possible to ascertain whether such an initiative has been taken lightly. If that is the case, the risk is to succumb to the stigmatization of civil society, which is now very present. Minister, I hope that the mobilization will continue and that this Sunday at 2:00 p.m. at Gare du Nord, we will be numerous to protest against this policy of criminalisation of the world of associations, which organizes solidarity on the ground, where the state is no longer present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u42	Minister, over the last few days, many disaster areas have been identified by Oxfam staff as a major area of action. The rest of the aid sector follows. Today it came to light that Plan International employees abused children. Earlier we had to learn that last year alone, there were 24 cases of sexual misconduct at Doctors Without Borders. Many people do not even dare to report such abuse. Women and children in need sexual abuse, there is no cowardice, although the reactions were almost equally cowardly. I have not seen so much indignation, no colleagues asking parliamentary questions about it, let alone a question about a parliamentary committee of inquiry, as was the case in the case of abuse in the church. There was no hashtag MeToo. All in all, attention remained very limited. It was mainly limited to denial and minimalisation. The director of Oxfam, Mark Goldring, limited himself to saying that we didn't kill any babies. In their own country, the reactions were equally hallucinating. In this respect, a no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. An equally non-standard chairman of Oxfam Belgium called it forcing sex on women and even on children in exchange for emergency aid details of the past. In other words, please shut up about it and keep pouring. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is now clear that all these aid organizations have been aware of the abuses for ten years. They received several reports warning them of this. However, nothing has been done about this. You've already announced an external audit. My question is whether it investigates whether Oxfam Belgium was aware of the scandals? This year, 7.4 million euros of federal tax money is earmarked for Oxfam. Will you suspend funding until there is complete clarity? The file of Oxfam employee and recidivist Roland Van Hauwermeiren also revealed financial irregularities. Minister, do you not think it is a good opportunity to monitor the use of funds by the aid organisations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u43	Mrs Pas, thank you for the question. The misconduct of the employees of Oxfam UK is absolutely degout and reprehensible. I repeat my reaction two weeks ago when the facts came to light. It is about the sexual abuse of the most vulnerable, girls and women who are looking for food and protection in a humanitarian catastrophe, and it is also about the abuse of a relationship of authority and an aid situation. The facts were committed by a fellow countryman who was employed by Oxfam UK in Haiti. I've had a check made to see if there's a link to Belgian policy. Oxfam UK is not a partner organisation of Belgian Development Cooperation. Oxfam Solidarity, Oxfam World Stores and Oxfam Magasins du Monde are. I have announced that I will have an audit carried out on their integrity procedures. By the way, they were asking for that audit to be carried out. These organisations must be aware that they must be above all suspicion and that, if there are dysfunctions, it cannot be without consequences. By the way, one and a half years ago, in temporary non-suspecto, I made the integrity obligation vis-à-vis NGOs more stringent. I've asked NGOs to comply with an ethical code. I assume that the NGOs that contribute to the implementation of Belgian policy will do the same. Those who do not must understand that they are not part of Belgian policy. In recent years, I have removed about 20 NGOs implementing Belgian policies due to a lack of capacity to deal with public funds. In any organization, there could be rotten apples. That's not the end of the story. An ethical code, transparency about possible errors, an internal sanction mechanism, the lodging of a complaint in criminal offences, that is the minimum I expect from any organisation that works with Belgian public money. In English there is the saying Sunshine is the best disinfecting. I absolutely agree with that. When working with public funds, one must be transparent. Mistakes can happen occasionally, but I never accept the kind of cover operations we have seen in the UK for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that you are not taking any further steps to monitor the use of funds by aid organisations. You're talking about rotten apples. You say that it is individuals who commit misconduct. We cannot blame the whole organization for that. But one can, one must blame an organization if it does not control that behaviour in one's own association, if it does not take measures to avoid that misconduct in the future and if it covers it up for years, because the reputation of the association is considered more important than the protection of the victims. You have not answered my question as to whether the money will continue to flow. I assume this is the case. In my view, the United Kingdom and Switzerland have made the only right decision, namely the complete suspension of Oxfam's subsidies. Apparently, you're not waiting for your own external audit. You're not waiting for clarity. I note that the government will immediately transfer the next disk of taxpayers' money to Oxfam.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u45	Mr President, Minister, UNICEF said that there was no word to describe the situation in Ghouta, east of Damascus. Still, you have to try to qualify what's going on there. It's not a war. These are massacres. It's a butcher shop. In fact, it is terrorism since it is for Bashar al-Assad's planes, but also Putin, to bomb specifically schools, hospitals, civilians. Meanwhile, we're not doing anything. We are publishing a statement in which we express concern, as if Putin, as if al-Assad were going to worry about our concerns. At the same time, Turkey, one of our allies in the Atlantic Alliance, decides to invade Syria, to cross the border, again with Putin's green light. And what are you doing, Minister of Foreign Affairs? You're calling the "detention." That's the qualifier you used. As a country violates international law, invades a country, creates a new front in this endless war, you call for restraint! Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, I ask you to tell me what you are going to do, finally, to try to stop this bloodbath. I can see you smiling! If the figures have once again been minimized in Belgium – in your press release, you are talking about dozens of deaths since Bashar al-Assad's offensive – your counterpart, Mr Le Driant, is talking about 100 deaths a day. That is much more, Minister of Foreign Affairs! I am asking you today what we in Europe are going to do to ensure that our dignity, that the lives of Syrians are preserved, that this war, that this endless agony finally ends. What are you going to do so that we can ultimately weigh in this conflict, so that we stop letting the hordes of Bashar al-Assad go, that we stop letting Russia go, our new partner – this is the qualifier used by our Prime Minister when he went to Russia asking that we stop ostracizing Mr Putin – that we stop letting Putin go to Syria and stop letting Turkey go to the enclave of Afrine?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u46	Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, what is currently happening in Syria, and more specifically in the Ghouta region, east of Damascus, a region designated by the official Syrian authorities, is a real act of barbarism that does not meet any reason, no strategic motive. As my colleague Mr Dallemagne said, it is a bombardment of the population by Bashar al-Assad planes, with Russian intervention as well. This situation, which is a real abuse of military power, raises questions about the usefulness of diplomacy in the Syrian conflict. Minister, in your opinion, what are the useful steps to be taken to bring about a cessation of hostilities in Ghouta? How do you deal with this situation? What is your analysis of what can be done diplomatically? Should a new Security Council resolution be adopted, which would establish a humanitarian truce in order to allow the evacuation of people? Is that possible? How can the various military forces involved be involved, through an effective monitoring mechanism? In the diplomatic process initiated in the context of Security Council resolution 2254, do you identify any new elements that would make it possible to unblock the process? Finally, from the humanitarian point of view, are we able to help Syrian civilians on the ground? Do we do so either directly or through the European Union's humanitarian aid? I would like to hear from you on these various issues, Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, while knowing the interest and attention you are giving to this extremely important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u47	Mr President, Minister, violence in Syria is escalating. The territories of East Ghouta and Idlib are affected by the violence of Assad's army. In Afrin, the mainly Kurdish population is faced with a Turkish military operation. The Syrian revolution, which was also a search for more freedom, has degenerate into a civil war. The country is completely destabilised, not only military, but also humanitarian. International and humanitarian law is consistently violated. Over the past few weeks, hundreds of victims have been killed, including many children and women. Hospitals are being destroyed. In Idlib alone, over 300 000 people have fled in recent weeks. The humanitarian situation is appalling. There is therefore a sense of helplessness and powerlessness, including among the international community. We cannot, of course, leave the citizens who are the victims of everything that is happening there to their fate. It is our duty as an international community to protect these citizens and to seek a political and humanitarian solution. I have two questions. Firstly, as regards the humanitarian situation. The UN calls the situation in Syria hell on earth. Citizens are stuck and waiting for help. We must therefore be able to provide humanitarian aid to these citizens as soon as possible. People must be able to be repatriated. How are we going to ensure that? Is there any way we can find a solution? Secondly, we must also consider a lasting solution to this conflict. We must avoid further destabilisation of the region at all costs. After all, we have clearly seen that military action is not a solution. What else can Europe do? How are we going to strengthen that political process in the UN? How are we going to ensure that, after seven years, there is finally a solution for Syria?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing a catastrophic deterioration of the situation, with barbarism at work in several parts of Syria. The past few days barbaric acts have taken place in Idlib and elsewhere. And indeed, even in the case of the Turkish attack in the region of Afrin, as well as in other places, this is the case. In eastern Ghouta, there are a large number of deaths, trapped people and hundreds of thousands of people who are forced to move – if they can – or to live under bombardment. I'll be very clear on what we're doing. We did not wait for one or the other question in Parliament to try to act, and I thank the parliamentarians who wanted to go in the same direction. We are working on three elements. Firstly, it may be a bit strange to say in the current circumstances, but we are trying to gather some evidence in connection with the very difficult facts on the field. There is an international mechanism, which Belgium is helping to finance, trying to collect a number of evidence of war crimes, facts that cannot go unpunished. That's the first thing we can do in the field. The second is to work on a United Nations Security Council resolution and try to achieve both a ceasefire and humanitarian assistance. Over the past two weeks, I have had the opportunity to meet in Brussels with the representative of the opposition, Mr. Al-Hariri, and Staffan de Mistura, the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, to prepare a number of steps. At the beginning of last week, I was in Moscow where I met my counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, with a very clear approach at the request of a halt to the bombings, a ceasefire and humanitarian access. At the end of last week, we met with my Foreign Affairs colleagues at the Gymnich – informal Foreign Affairs meeting – in Sofia. On this occasion, we not only called for a ceasefire and immediate humanitarian access, but I also had the opportunity to directly appeal to my Turkish colleague from European Affairs to tell him that the situation in the Afrin region was unacceptable. We will continue our response to the various actors, namely Russia, Syria and Turkey, who want to achieve such a particularly difficult situation on the ground. This morning, I returned from New York where I met with the Permanent Representative of the United States, Nikki Haley, and with the Permanent Representatives of the European countries currently sitting on the Security Council to see how to strengthen this approach with a view to obtaining a resolution. There is a blockage in the Security Council and we are doing everything we can to try to lift it. My French colleague will again go to Tehran and Moscow to plead in the same direction. With regard to humanitarian access, I worked yesterday with Peter Maurer, President of the International Red Cross, who is in the same situation as us. He would like access to those areas that are being bombed for the time being. The approach is therefore to move towards a Security Council resolution. Meetings are still scheduled now. Finally, there will be no solution – even after a ceasefire and humanitarian access – only through a political approach. Mr van Peteghem, there is indeed a need for new negotiations in Geneva. That's what I said to Staffan de Mistura. We're working on that. What we need to do there is to ensure the distribution of power. It is only by sharing power through the various actors of Syria that a lasting peace can be organized. That's the only way to do it. I would therefore like to say that the Belgian Government, Belgian diplomacy and myself, Mr Dallemagne, do not spare our sorrows, day after day. I have just spent 15 days in Moscow, New York, Sofia, Brussels to plead on this point. You said earlier "you smile," because it's a bit tiring not to feel stronger support when people are dying in Syria right now and we're doing everything we can to get a Security Council resolution!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u49	I'd be embarrassed by your applause! I would be embarrassed by Belgium's diplomatic attitude. The Foreign Minister tells us that the situation in Afrin is not acceptable. But it is not the situation in Afrin that is not acceptable, it is the invasion by Turkey of a neighbouring country! That is unacceptable, and that is what you did not say. This is a violation of international law – and you have not yet said so – by a NATO ally who is endangering the same organization. That is unacceptable, and that is what the Foreign Minister did not say. He lets it happen, does not summon the ambassador of Turkey, nor of Russia. Our Prime Minister considers Putin to be a partner – who is ostracized – when we know that he is today the most dangerous man in the world. It has destabilized Europe, the Middle East and the United States of America. And you consider that it should not be ostracized! Is that our diplomacy, is that what you applaud on the MR benches? I wouldn't be proud. We are waiting for you to summon the Turkish Ambassador and the Russian Ambassador, to put the Syrian Chargé d'affaires who is still in our territory at the door, to make sure that there is a no-fly zone in northern Syria, that Bashar al-Assad's helicopters stop bombing hospitals with their barrels of powder and explosives. That's what we have to do!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u50	Minister, I will be less upset than the previous speaker. I have listened very carefully to all the answers you have given to the legitimate questions that have been asked. I note that action has been taking place for several weeks at different levels and in different forums, in Sofia, New York, Moscow or Brussels. At the level of our group, Mr Dallemagne, we have no lessons to learn about the fact that we have full confidence in the diplomatic action that is being carried out by our Foreign Minister, whether by trying to establish a relationship with the Russians, by advocating for a resolution at the UN level or by trying to move Europe, including on a humanitarian level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is clear that we must first of all protect Syrian citizens. That is our first task. We must look for a humanitarian solution in Syria. I heard you say that barbaric acts are taking place there and that this is unacceptable. We must condemn what is happening there. We cannot accept the violence that is taking place there. However, we must also have the courage to think about the role we will play. For a large part of Syria, it has not been civil war for a long time. There are so many international powers there, such as the United States, Russia, Iran and Turkey, who are trying to be present on Syrian territory, with all the consequences. So we need to think about and look for a sustainable solution for Syria, and that must be done at European level. We must find a solution both in humanitarian and political terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u52	Mr President, Minister, this week the supplements flew to our ears. First there were reports about UZ Leuven where, if we can believe everything, the quality of care can depend on the type of room the patient chooses. The Inter-Mutualist Agency then calculated that in the last ten years the pay supplements almost doubled, while in the same period it was prohibited to charge supplements in a multi-person room. Some patients pay more than 30 000 euros extra and the trophy was won by someone who paid an extra 54 000 euros. We can hardly believe that. I still hope that these cases are major exceptions. Today it appears that the gynecologists are the big sloop, with an extra 1 000 euros per childbirth. Madam Secretary, the fact that doctors get more for treatment because their patients are in one or the other room must really be out of time. That's class medicine. You have rightly condemned certain practices in this regard, and I fully agree with your condemnation. Only, Madam Secretary, in your case, judging is not enough. You have to do something about it, too. Some of these supplements go to hospitals, but we do not even have a look at the actual amounts. You are responsible for the financing of the hospitals. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you in a very specific way when are you finally going to work on the promised reform of hospital funding? When will you finally cut the link between the supplements and hospital funding? Only by cutting that link, I am convinced, can we ultimately abolish these scandalous wage supplements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u53	Mrs Jiroflée, all patients, without distinction, are entitled to the best care, and we must all contribute to this. The problem of pay supplements has indeed been on the increase for more than 10 years. Since the beginning of the legislature, I have been working on this, inter alia, by banning supplements in double and multiple rooms in day hospitalization. I have encouraged doctors and sickness funds to formulate in the recent Medicomut agreement a number of slopes which could lead to concrete measures. In concrete terms, these are the next slopes. First, more transparency for patients through a prior cost estimate from 1 January 2019 so that the patient knows what he/she will have to pay for a scheduled procedure. A maximum amount will also be included for wage supplements. The cost estimate will be a mutual commitment and is therefore a legally enforceable contract. The invoice will also specify which part of what the patient pays is for the hospital and which part is for the doctor himself. Secondly, in certain special situations such as transplants, cancer cases or children with severe diseases, there will also be a ceilinged maximum price. These points are currently being discussed by doctors and health insurance funds. At the FPS Public Health and the RIZIV I asked to organise a consultation and negotiate a standstill. A proposal will be made by 30 June 2018. You're asking when the hospital funding is due. With regard to low variable care, the first step will be taken in the second half of this year. That is the way it is planned and the preparations in the administrations are in full swing, but also in the hospitals where there are also adjustments to be made. Mrs. Jiroflée, I will take the supplements. Patients who opt for a single room in the future will also know how much they pay for supplements and what amount of them goes to the hospital and what amount they pay to the doctor himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u54	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I acknowledge that you've done a number of things. Only this ultimate reform seems to have been postponed for you every time. Only by cutting the link between hospital funding and the pay supplements will we really be able to get rid of those supplements. Sp.a must be convinced of that. But you're always pushing that step out for you. For our group, health care must be affordable and high quality for everyone. We have been convinced of this for a long time. I hope that you will work on this in the future and that ultimate work will no longer be postponed for you and will intervene in it with a firm hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u55	Madam Secretary, something is rotting in the state of Brussels, which is why I am standing before you today. Before I ask my specific question, I should like to apologize first. In front of you is a simple and ordinary man. That was my quick conclusion, after last Monday I heard the competent vessels of the city of Brussels say that the GIAL case is not a legal problem and that the amounts circulating are market-oriented. That the common man might not understand that, so be it, it seemed. Well, here's the common man, Madam Secretary. I do not understand that, I refuse to understand that, and I speak on behalf of my group as a whole. If we see that a director of a not insignificant city, who is to serve the public business, allows a director to bet on top of his bet as a director, as a sort of consultant to charge up to EUR 1 000 a day, and that for 18 years, we do not understand that. For 18 years, one can hardly comprehend that. Madam Secretary, first of all, are you prepared, following the example of your colleague Van Overtveldt, who immediately attacked the team and instructed his services to start an investigation into the tax section, to investigate the social part of the file? Secondly, a few months ago there was Samusocial, yesterday there was GIAL, today in De Tijd says a piece about the company Brinfin, I had never heard of it. What's next , collega's? What will follow? I am convinced that this will not be the case, Madam Minister. Are you willing to proactively investigate all companies and all non-profit organisations linked to the city of Brussels for social fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u56	Mr Raskin, as you said, the common man does not understand that. In any case, the social security rules must be properly respected, because that is the only way we can maintain the underlying solidarity. This is where the contribution to social security is actually avoided. It is very important to note that some of these self-proclaimed heroes of solidarity must be recalled. The status chosen must not be contrary to social security legislation. When the parties formally organise their relationship as self-employed persons, while the facts show that a person performs the same function each day in the same undertaking and directs the same shift, that is not true and there may be false self-employment. Then, of course, it is necessary for an investigation to be carried out by the inspection services of the RSZ. I would remind you that in recent months Philippe De Backer and I have organized a number of studies at non-profit organisations in Brussels, in Charleroi, in Antwerp, in Liège and other major cities, within the framework of the Grand City Plan. In some cities there are huge numbers of non-profit organisations. Now they come to the surface one by one like bubbles. They will therefore be examined one by one. There will be a removal when we determine the undergrowth of our social security. We owe it to ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u57	Madam Secretary, I can't replicate much of this. I'm following you all the way. It is true that your colleague De Backer has been doing a good job for a long time. In committee, I regularly express my support for this. I take this opportunity to refer to Action 19 of this year's Action Plan against Social Fraud, where the RSZ will indeed look at 15 public employers in addition to the actions of the Great Town Plan. For me, there may be more. If you don't know where to start, I have a tip for you, Madam Secretary. I quote what my good colleague said at the start of the round of questions:C'est l'heure de la vérité.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u58	Mr President, Minister, did you get a look at the Pano report yesterday?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u59	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u60	She was impressive, what a situation of our public transport company. Colleagues, employees said in the report, first of all, that, contrary to what we are allowed to do, they simply cannot talk about the reality they are experiencing within the company. Today, in 2018, in Belgium, employees can still be banned from explaining to the outside world and to the press what the situation is like within SNCB. They're talking about an anxiety culture in the company. It is they, the workers, the train escorts and the train drivers, who work every day to get us to work, who speak of a culture of fear and a culture of sanctions. They also indicate that they are not allowed to bring that out. Mr Prime Minister, my first question concerns this. Do you think that situation is normal? Should you not, in your capacity as Minister, make it clear that the workers concerned today have the right to speak and to tell the press what is going on with SNCB today? Secondly, Minister, many testimonies have been put forward in the Pano report about the consequences of the split-up of the railway company in Infrabel, on the one hand, and SNCB, on the other. Employees within the SNCB company explain that in the past they might have to wait half an hour for a red signal, whereas it now takes two or three hours. They'll explain to us how many directors there are. To see this report, there are almost more leaders than Indians in this company! They explained to us how it is that the division of the company has once again doubled its staff. There was a lot of liveliness in these people, but it is felt that in the company they have little respect for the work they do. I therefore believe that action must be taken, Minister. I have two questions. First of all, don't you think those people should have the right to speak? Secondly, hasn't it been a very bad idea to split up the company? Isn't it time to re-establish a unified SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u61	Mr. Secretary, yesterday's report was unheard of. I did get a déjà vu. On 18 October 2017, Mrs.Dutordoir, the CEO, wrote and told the scenario of the Pano-reportage. It wasn't a secret for us. The military structure and the sanctions, the staff, or should we say the numbers, as in the criminal camps, which were supposed to testify anonymously for fear of reprisals, the hopelessly obsolete computer system and the administrative nuisance, were not really news. Thank God the carbon paper has now been abolished. In 2018, SNCB turned out to be an old state-owned company, from the last century. The abuses, the head of water and the misinvestments are not news, but remain unheard of, Minister. Will SNCB become a performer, or will it miss the boat in the market which will be liberalised? SNCB must put the customer at the centre, with the finesse of an Italian deli. That's important. It is an assignment for the CEO, Mrs Dutordoir, who, fortunately, is protecting the anonymous witnesses. That is a very important signal, because today the CEO is on the side of the employees, of the staff. It doesn't just seem like it, it's on the property. She's taking steps on the ground. She promised us that in October 2017. Today, she's already taken a lot of steps to get rid of that waterhead. Still, it's not fast enough. However, we cannot turn the tanker fast enough. Minister, what can we do to support the CEO, who is on the staff side, so that the Pano reportage can finally go to the archives, together with carbon paper and steam trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u62	Mr President, first of all I would like to stress that the railway workers deserve our deepest respect. A quality service for travellers is being worked on a daily basis. Did we learn anything new yesterday from this show? The warned observers say: "Absolutely, no! We've known her for a long time." The coalition agreement and the government's vision of the railways are clear. We want a modern rail company that puts the customer and his safety and comfort as a priority. It's noon minus five for that! Why? Because in 2023, it is the opening of the market and this company must catch up with a delay of modernisation. The wish, the will, is to do it by 2023. Immediately after I took office, I asked both companies in my policy paper to modernise their policies with a customer-oriented strategic vision that manages, among other things, socio-economic efficiency projects, a faster return on investment and a wider motivation of their human capital. These are permanent concerns. I am convinced that further modernisation and digitisation, and increasing productivity, is not only the government's wish. All Belgians, train passengers or not, support this intention. The government is therefore continuing its efforts to prepare our railway companies for the forthcoming opening of the market. Just because we think SNCB is so important, we are all going to continue our efforts to make the future a success and ensure that SNCB can and will remain a punctual, comfortable and safe train operator every day in a free European rail market. It is not the recipes of the past that will make this possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u63	Mr President, Minister, you must also listen carefully to what was said in the Pano report. Of course, there are a lot of problems of the past. It is a fact that many parties have been part of the government for a long time in the past, so they will know their own responsibility for that. However, the SNCB employees say in particular that very recent decisions, such as the division of the company in 2005, cause major problems. They explain to us that this split ensured that they have two chefs and that, for coordination in the case of a red light, they have to do the round of Belgium to find out what is going on. They tell us that there are problems today, and you do not answer them. A second problem concerns the right to speak. People are told not to speak. Let us give a political signal today. Can we give the signal that any SNCB employee can speak in the press tomorrow? Mr Minister, are we going to make a political statement here today about the right to speak for SNCB employees? Shall we do that? Or is it just blalabla and in fact it is not allowed for reasons of secrecy and so on. So nobody will do that here because the structure must be preserved. It stays with generalities. The only defence the SNCB employees have against that military power there is their collective strength, which they will show next Tuesday during their actions. What you want to do is even break that collective power. Well, the SNCB employees will not agree to that at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u64	Mr Hedebouw, the right to speak was given by the CEO, who spreads her wings and says that everyone in her company should have the right to express his opinion in an open and transparent manner. Let us stress this here today. I hear you saying here that we'd better go back to the last century by making another large state-owned company. However, our group is proposing to bring in private funds, just like that went with bpost and Proximus, or in the way VTM has achieved in the media sector compared to the then very old state channel BRTN. Today, the media sector is performing thanks to the arrival of VTM, thanks to private money on the market. Let us bet on that. Let us look at the 21st century, and not back, begot, at the last century, Mr Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u65	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last night, an important anniversary began to be celebrated: the 50th anniversary of the social status for independents. It is important to us for two reasons that I will set out. The first reason for this is that it helps to highlight the millions of self-employed people in our country, those men and women who carry projects, take risks, who are embarking on entrepreneurship. We know how difficult it is, especially in the early years. Too often, these actors are not put forward, but this anniversary gives us the opportunity to remedy it. It is also an opportunity to recall how fundamental social protection for the self-employed is. Unfortunately, the figures brought us to a difficult reality: 15 per cent of the self-employed now live below the poverty line. It's obviously way too much. Reforms aimed at increasing the level of their pensions, extending their medical coverage or extending the financial safety net are therefore essential. This is why environmentalists have consistently supported these reforms for 50 years. We are convinced that the million self-employed are entitled to a quality of employment worthy of the twenty-first century. Minister, although many reforms have taken place in the last half century, much remains to be done. So I wanted to ask you about what you intend to do by the end of the legislature and highlight the three priorities of the Ecolo-Groen Group that emerge from the texts that we have tabled. The first text deals with family-life balance – work life and calls for the introduction of paternity leave for self-employed persons. We've already discussed it in committee. I know you're in favour of the principle. Do you have any idea how the proposal would land? We wish to extend the bridge law to protect the person who initiates his or her project in the event of difficulties or even bankruptcy. The UCM is also asking for its enlargement. Do you also wish to legislate on this matter? The introduction of a simplified statute for the self-employed who are embarking would facilitate the administrative route and all matters relating to social and tax contributions. Can you follow us on this as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u66	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, thank you for your question. You are right, we honoured yesterday a human rendezvous: with the Prime Minister and the Sovereign, we were around the independents to celebrate the 50th anniversary of their social status, but also to return to a difficult story. The aim is to put an end to discrimination against the self-employed. We know that great progress has been made since 2003 with the assignment to Sabine Laruelle of the functions that I perform today. I am thinking in particular of the full right to reimbursement of health care, which came into effect in 2008; the launch of the first contribution reform in 2013; and the equalization of family allowances in 2014. Finally, the children of an independent were considered equal to those of the employees! Then, of course, an acceleration was observed from 2014. This is reflected in several measures: the equalization of the minimum pensions of the self-employed; the reform of the right to access; and maternity leave for the self-employed, which was increased in 2017 from eight to twelve weeks. I can also mention the reform of the contributions of the self-employed or the new measures in favour of starters. If such an acceleration in the improvement of the social status of the self-employed could have taken place from 2014, it is of course because it required – you pointed out, Mr Vanden Burre, that today still 15% of the self-employed are living below the poverty line – in view of his previous reluctance, the absence of the Socialist Party in this government. That is why we have made faster progress in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u67	That's lamentable!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u68	But no, it's not lamentable; it's only reality. If the social status of the self-employed did not progress faster, it is because you were in power and you continued to block the possibility of making progress that could have been produced earlier!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u69	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u70	The scandal is the way in which you have previously blocked the equalization of family allowances and minimum pensions for the self-employed. You have been the brake for years on improving their social status; you know that! You don't like independents! Stop hiding it! No, it's not a slogan. These are actions, concrete ones. It was impossible with the Socialist Party on board. There's still work, Mr. Vanden Burre, indeed. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u71	If the self-employed were so important to Mr. Laaouej, he could ask a question today about the fiftieth anniversary of the social status of the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u72	Thank you both!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u73	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u74	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I want proof of the achievements that have been possible for a number of months, because you are no longer on board. And we will continue, Mr. Vanden Burre. That is why yesterday, together with the sovereign and the Prime Minister, we launched a campaign that will be addressed to all the independents, to set the stage for the improvements that we still need to make to their social status. I would like to respond to an important point. We have agreements. I take paternity leave, for example. As Minister of Independents, I know you're engaged at that level. I will also fight to bring this paternity leave to the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u75	Mr President, Mr Minister, I will focus on the last sentence of your speech and your introduction, because I sincerely believe that the million independents in this country deserve better than invectives between parties. It is fundamental for us – and that is why I have highlighted the history of the 50 years. My goal was to mark the blow – to protect – we are talking about social status – those who start, those who take risks to remedy existing and existing discriminations. It is important to protect and encourage. It is important to encourage those who advocate a sustainable, job-creating model rooted in us. Ecolo-Groen is also fighting to maintain a balance between work and family life. I'll take your word for paternity leave. We have other proposals. We will debate it in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u76	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u77	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 February 2018, on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session, I propose that the legislative proposal (Mr Christian Brotcorne and Mr Benoît Dispa) amending Article 375 of the Income Tax Code 1992, Nos 191/1 to 4, be withdrawn and sent to the Finance and Budget Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 February 2018, I propose to withdraw the bill (MM. Christian Brotcorne and Benoît Dispa) amending Article 375 of the Income Tax Code 1992, Nos 201/1 to 4 of the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session and referring it to the Finance and Budget Committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Karine Lalieux, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a good idea to say a few words about this in plenary. What's this about? The federal contribution is collected by the distribution system operators and transferred to the federal level via Elia. The problem that has arisen there is that too many years have been collected. Of course, Elia only has a view of the volumes that pass through her network, but because of the more and more decentralised production, this is of course different when it comes to consumption at the level of the distribution system operators. As a result, a sum has started to accumulate that could not be spent because there was not so much to be paid through the rates and so on. The three Regions have dealt with this differently. In Brussels and Wallonia, these sums were paid out in part step by step without actually providing an effective legal solution to the problem. However, a way has been found for this to happen. In Flanders, the total amount involved was 75 million euros. That amount had accumulated, had no actual destination and could not be paid out legally either. Last year my colleague Andries Gryffroy, among others, put the finger on the wound in the Flemish Parliament. It has been found that this money absolutely had to go back to the consumers, as we are obviously concerned about the energy price. We are pleased that a solution has been found in the meantime and that this problem can no longer arise in the future. This will enable us to put EUR 75 million back in the pockets of families and businesses, wherever that money belongs. My group will therefore be voting in favour of this proposal with some conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u80	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u81	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2853/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2853/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u82	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u83	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u84	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u85	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u86	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2836/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2836/04) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law on the financing of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products." The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill on the financing of the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products". The draft law has 69 articles. The bill has 69 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u87	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u88	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Johan Klaps, Peter Dedecker, Robert Van de Velde, Hendrik Vuye, Veerle Wouters, Egbert Lachaert, Luk Van Biesen, Benoît Piedboeuf, Griet Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Deseyn, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u90	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, society is evolving very quickly and is becoming increasingly complex. We talk about digital revolution, about change management and transition. The law and the legislator always lag behind the facts in their efforts to provide the best possible response to all new, complex constructions. Unfortunately, this often makes the legislation very complex. Fortunately, it must not always be complicated and we can sometimes solve a poignant problem with simple interventions. And that shouldn't always cost a lot of money. The present bill to stop considering orphan's interest as a means of subsistence from the first euro makes a very big difference for widows, widowers and their children. Let me get this straight. When one of the parents dies, the children receive a compensation called the orphan's interest. In contrast to maintenance payments such as alimony, this interest rate is taken into account today as a means of subsistence from the first euro. Maintenance fees, on the other hand, are not considered a means of subsistence for the first 3 270 euros. The result is that orphans have their own resources in tax terms and, for example, when doing holiday work, they are quickly no longer dependent on the parent, with all the tax consequences. With this proposal, the orphan's interest rate up to EUR 1 800, to be indexed, is added to this exception and is therefore no longer considered a means of subsistence, as is already the case for children entitled to maintenance. In this way, dependent parents and dependent children will continue to be dependent on their parents under the same conditions. The Court of Auditors estimates that approximately 2 500 orphans can continue to be taxed by their parents as a result of the bill, based on Famifed's estimates and figures. orphans, like children of divorced parents, will be able to work holidays from the age of 16 until they have graduated or no longer qualify for child benefit. This was also the reason why in 2001 maintenance payments of up to EUR 1 800 should no longer be regarded as a means of subsistence. We then found that the maintenance allowance received by a child, combined with holiday work, often resulted in it no longer being borne by the single parent. In future, therefore, orphans will continue to be dependent on the surviving parent in the same way as children of divorced parents and will also be able to do holiday work. Moreover, this bill fits perfectly into the policy in which we want to promote work as much as possible. A holiday job can be an ideal step to a first job after graduation. In short, orphans, like their peers, can gain a first work experience without them or their families being affected. The loss of a parent is already bad enough, and one should not be penalised for tax purposes too. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill was signed by all groups of the majority and even by an entire group of the opposition. It was unanimously approved in committee, and I hope, along with all the orphans involved, that this will receive your unanimous support in the vote in this plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u91	Mr President, we welcome this initiative taken by our colleague. We support it because it is a matter of ending discrimination. All this goes in the direction of solidarity with the weakest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u92	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u93	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1488/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1488/7) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u94	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u95	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mrs Dierick, rapporteur, informed me that she referred to the written report. The committee's recommendations are as follows: 1. The additional indicators, as published in the annual reports of the Federal Planning Office presented in 2016 and 2017, should be divided into as few categories or key indicators as possible as set out in Art. Paragraph 1 (k) of the Law of 21 December 1994 on social and miscellaneous provisions. The Federal Planning Office should come up with a selection of about ten main indicators. The Federal Planning Office is invited to consider the pertinence and usefulness of the indicators. 2. The aim is to ensure that as many of the indicators as possible are European geographical and historical comparable. 3. Where possible, the additional indicators shall be presented by gender, age, income category and region. 4. The reflection and further examination of the composite indicators should be carried out. 5. It is necessary to strengthen the coherence between the set of additional indicators in addition to GDP and indicators of sustainable development, in particular in the context of the follow-up to the sustainable development objectives set by the United Nations. 6. As provided for in the above Act of 21 December 1994, the indicators should be drawn up on the basis of the participation of the competent public authorities and Belgian civil society and the summary of the results should form part of the annual report of the National Bank of Belgium. The Commission's recommendations are as follows: 1. The supplementary indicators, as published in the annual reports of the Federal Office of the Plan submitted in 2016 and 2017, must be divided into as few categories or main indicators as possible, as referred to in article 108, paragraph 1, (k), of the Act of 21 December 1994 on social and other provisions. The Federal Planning Office is expected to select approximately ten key indicators. The Federal Planning Office is also invited to consider the relevance and usefulness of the selected indicators. 2. To the extent possible, it is necessary to ensure that the selected indicators allow geographical and historical comparisons at European level. 3. To the extent possible, complementary indicators should be broken down by sex, age, income level and Region. 4. There is a need for reflection and further research on composite indicators. 5. There is a need to strengthen coherence between all indicators complementary to GDP and sustainable development indicators, particularly in the context of the monitoring of the sustainable development goals proclaimed by the United Nations. 6. As provided for in the above-mentioned Act of 21 December 1994, the development of indicators must be based on the participation of Belgian public services and civil society and the synthesis of results must be published in the annual report of the National Bank of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u96	Mr President, the recommendations are a result of the first two reports of the Planning Bureau in the Committee for Economic Affairs in February 2016 and February 2017. Although somewhat late, we have drawn up a set of recommendations with Parliament with a view to better reporting and exchange of views with the Planning Bureau. Our exchange of views resulted in a set of six clear recommendations, which was adopted unanimously by the committee. We are putting them for discussion today, so that our assembly can deliver them to the Federal Planning Office in plenum. To this end, we have tabled a motion which we would like to see approved in support of the recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u97	Following the discussion of the report of the Committee on Industry, Science Policy, Education, the national scientific and cultural institutions, the Small Business and Agriculture on the additional indicators in addition to GDP, the following motion was tabled by Mrs Griet Smaers, Mr Benoît Friart and Mr Michel de Lamotte, Mrs Nele Lijnen and Mr Leen Dierick and Mr Johan Klaps. It reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the report of the Committee on Industry on the discussion of additional indicators in addition to GDP, approves the Committee's recommendations." In conclusion of the discussion of the report of the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture on indicators complementary to GDP, the following motion was tabled by Mrs Griet Smaers, MM. Benoît Friart and Michel de Lamotte, Ms Nele Lijnen and Ms Leen Dierick and Mr Johan Klaps. It reads as follows: "The Chamber, Having heard the report of the Committee on the Economy on the discussion on indicators complementary to GDP, endorses the committee's recommendations." The vote on the motion will take place later. The vote on the motion will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u98	By letter of 19 January 2018, the President of the Council of the French Community Commission shall transmit the text of a motion of censure on a conflict of interest, adopted by the plenary on 19 January 2018, referred to in Article 32 of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions. By letter of 19 January 2018, the President of the Assembly of the French Community Commission forwards the text of a motion adopted in plenary session on 19 January 2018 concerning a conflict of interest as defined by Article 32 of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reforms. The conflict of interest refers to the draft law on economic revival and the strengthening of social cohesion, No. 2839. The conflict of interest concerns the draft law on economic recovery and the strengthening of social cohesion, No. 2839. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 February 2018, the delegation will consist of Mr Wim Van der Donkt (reporter), Mr Frédéric Daerden (reporter), Mr David Clarinval, Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne (chair of the Social Affairs Committee), Ms Meryame Kitrir, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Ms Catherine Fonck. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 22 February 2018, the House delegation will be composed of MM. Wim Van der Donckt (Rapporteur), Frédéric Daerden (Rapporteur), David Clarinval, Stefaan Vercamer and Vincent Van Quickenborne (Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee), Meryame Kitir, Georges Gilkinet and Catherine Fonck. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with Article 102 No. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, I will arrange for consultations with the Council of the French Community Committee. In accordance with Rule 102, No. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, I shall organise a consultation with the Assembly of the French Community Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u99	By letter of 30 January 2018, the Chairman of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services, on behalf of the Committee, asked that Mr Gérald Vanden Walle, former member of the Standing Committee I, should be entitled to bear the title of honor of his duties. By letter dated January 30, 2018, the Chair of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services requests, on behalf of the Committee, that Mr.Gérald Vanden Walle, former member of the R Committee, be permitted to wear the honorary title of his position. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 February 2018, I propose that Mr Gérald Vanden Walle be given the honorary title of member of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services. In accordance with the advice of the Conference of Presidents of February 21, 2018, I propose that you grant Mr.Gérald Vanden Walle the honour of being a member of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u100	The N-VA Group has presented to me Mr Peter De Roover's candidacy to replace Mr Jan Vercammen as an effective member. The N-VA Group has sent me the candidacy of Mr Peter De Roover to replace Mr Jan Vercammen as an effective member. Since there are no other candidates, there is no need to vote on this and I declare Mr Peter De Roover elected as an effective member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote and I declare Mr Peter De Roover elected as an effective member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u101	At the request of the author, I propose the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne) on Belgian military operations, No. 255/1, to be sent to the External Relations Commission. At the request of the author, I propose that you refer to the Committee on External Relations the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne) concerning Belgian military operations, No 255/1. The bill was previously sent to the Defence Committee. This proposal had previously been referred to the National Defence Commission. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u102	The Conference of Presidents of 7 February 2018 proposes to refer the proposals still pending before the Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism to the relevant committees. The Conference of Presidents of 7 February 2018 proposes to refer proposals still pending to the Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism to the relevant committees. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I therefore propose that the relevant proposals be referred to as follows: - Justice voor clerkship: Proposals 711, 755, 756, 757, 782, 822, 1279, 1483, 1549, 1589, 1591, 1624, 1634, 1748, 1771, 1874, 1968, 2057, 2204, 2448, 2457, 2510, 2900 - Commission for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration: Proposals 710, 810, 915, 1175, 1234, 1412, 1466, 1606, 1629, 1785 - Finance and Budget Commission: Proposals 1542, 1544, 1620, 1714, 1817, 1942 - Commission for External Relations: Proposal No. 2332 - Commission for the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions: Proposal No. 762 - Defence Committee: Proposal No. 763 - Special Committee for the Rules of Procedure and for the Reform of Parliamentary Activities: Proposal No. 889. I therefore propose that you refer the proposals in question as follows: - Committee on Justice: proposals 711, 755, 756, 757, 782, 822, 1279, 1483, 1549, 1589, 1591, 1624, 1634, 1748, 1771, 1874, 1968, 2057, 2204, 2448, 2457, 2510, 2900 - Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service: proposals 710, 810, 915, 1175, 1234, 1412, 1466, 1606, 1629, 1785 - Finance and Budget Committee: proposals 1542, 1544, 1620, 1714, 1817, 1942 - Committee on External Relations: Proposal No. 2332 - Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions: Proposal No. 762 - National Defence Commission: Proposal No. 763 - Special Committee on Rules of Procedure and Reform of Parliamentary Work: Proposal No. 889. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I therefore propose that the temporary committee on the fight against terrorism be terminated. Therefore, I propose that you put an end to the task of the Temporary Committee on Combating Terrorism. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u103	The Government requested urgent treatment, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on the registration of service providers to companies, No. 2898/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the Bill on Registration of Service Providers to Companies, No. 2898/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u104	Mr President, this is indeed a draft law that partially transposes Articles 7 and 3 and Article 47 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of financial systems for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. This transposition must be carried out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u105	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u106	The Government also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Royal Decree of 30 January 1997 on the pension system of the self-employed pursuant to Articles 15 and 27 of the Law of 26 July 1996 on the modernisation of social security and on safeguarding the viability of statutory pension schemes and Article 3 (1) (4) of the Law of 26 July 1996 on the implementation of the budgetary conditions for Belgium's participation in European and Monetary Union as regards the minimum transitional allowance, No. 2917/1. The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when the draft law amending the Royal Decree of 30 January 1997 on the pension scheme for self-employed workers was tabled pursuant to Articles 15 and 27 of the Law of 26 July 1996 on the modernisation of social security and ensuring the viability of the statutory pension schemes and Article 3, § 1, 4 of the Law of 26 July 1996 on the attainment of the budgetary conditions for Belgium's participation in the European Economic and Monetary Union with regard to the minimum transitional allowance, No 2917/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u107	Mr President, we need a motivation. Not formal! Substantial!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u108	If there is no motivation or explanation to be given, I propose to postpone this point until next week. The Government also requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 23 July 1926 on SNCB and the staff of the Belgian Railways and the Code of Civil Procedure concerning the social elections for certain social dialogue bodies of the Belgian Railways, No. 2939/1. The Government also requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law amending the Act of 23 July 1926 on the SNCB and the staff of the Belgian Railways and the Judicial Code on social elections for certain social dialogue bodies of the Belgian Railways was tabled, No. 2939/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u109	Mr President, this is indeed a bill amending the Act of 23 July 1926 on the SNCB and the staff of the Belgian Railways and the Judicial Code on social elections for certain social dialogue bodies of the Belgian Railways. This bill adds to and changes to the organization of these elections. In view of the timetable and the retro-planning, we want the candidates to be able to participate and stand for election under the best possible conditions. It is necessary to be able to move quickly to ensure that the entire system is ready and available for these potential candidates.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u110	Mr President, it is good to ask for urgency, but this project is already on the agenda of the Infrastructure Committee on Tuesday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u111	You are right, ma'am, but that in itself is no objection to asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u112	We had a formal motivation from the minister. I thank her, but we would like a substantial motivation. What back-planning is it? What is this really about?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u113	Mr. Laaouej, I can do the back-planning. I thought we were gonna go too far into the matter, but I can do it to you. There's no problem. Social elections are scheduled for December 3-7, 2018. In order to be able to meet the deadline and the formal deadlines for the preliminary operations of this electoral procedure, these preliminary operations must begin no later than September 4, 2018, i.e. 90 days before the date of December 3. There are articles and the filing date for the lists of candidates is October 9 – which I explained to you – in order to give potential candidates the opportunity to register and apply under the best possible conditions. Given this date of 9 October, trade unions must apply by 9 April 2018 at the latest. It is therefore a matter of closing the procedure here in the House within sufficient time to provide the opportunity for trade unions and potential candidates to take an informed approach. I hope I've answered your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u114	Thank you, Minister, for this real motivation – at last! – because for some time now, we can't really say that the government has shone with its explanations!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u115	I would suggest that we speak out on that question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u116	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 February 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh) on the procedure for immediate appearance, No. 2942/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u117	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau and Mr Stéphane Crusnière) on the segregation of the metises of the period of Belgian colonization in Africa, No. 2952/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u118	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 February 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Ms. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh) on the immediate appearance procedure, No. 2942/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u119	- the motion for a resolution (Ms Sybille de Coster-Bauchau and Mr Stéphane Crusnière) on the segregation suffered by the Métis from Belgian colonization in Africa, No. 2952/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u120	In addition, I propose that the following proposals be considered: - the legislative proposal (Mr Egbert Lachaert) on the drafting of a code of conduct for the treatment of injury and the preparation of 'Latvia Damage Directives', No. 2943/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u121	- the legislative proposal (Mr Egbert Lachaert) to facilitate the framework for career savings, No. 2944/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u122	- the legislative proposal (Mr Conseil De groote) amending the law of 7 December 1998 on the organisation of an integrated police service, structured at two levels, No. 2945/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u123	I propose that you also take into account the following proposals: - the proposal for a law (Mr. Egbert Lachaert) on the establishment of a code of conduct for the settlement of personal injury cases and "Directives on bodily injury", No. 2943/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u124	- the proposal for a law (Mr Egbert Lachaert) to ease the framework for the career savings account, No 2944/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u125	- the draft law (Mr Koenraad Degroote) amending the Act of 7 December 1998 establishing an integrated, two-tiered police service, No. 2945/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u126	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u127	Mr President, I note that there is a proposal No. 2929 is that again discusses the motion voted by the Ronse City Council regarding the facilities. That motion was voted by CD&V, Groen, N-VA and Open Vld and supported by the Flemish Interest. It is a proposal that Mrs Wouters and I know very well, since it is a take-over of our proposal. Last time, N-VA did not support our proposal. We support the N-VA proposal here, and I therefore call for its urgent treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u128	Mr. Degroote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u129	Mr President, I am referring to another proposal that has been added to the agenda. Can I talk about that now, or do I have to wait?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u130	Wait a minute. First of all, the urgency is requested for the proposal No. 2929. I would suggest that we speak out on that question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u131	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the proposal No. 2945. After all, we are approaching the municipal elections and after the municipal elections, the police councils must be set up. A number of problems may arise where mergers of police zones are pending, related to mergers of municipalities. In certain cases this is accompanied by a defusion of a particular municipality from a zone. Since this can be very complex and in order to ensure the continuity of the operation of the police councils during the transitional period, a number of adjustments need to be made. That is why we are calling for the urgency to be able to guarantee its operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u132	Thank you, Mr Degroote. As you have heard, ladies and gentlemen, the urgency of this proposal is being called for. 2945. May I ask that those who support the urgency stand up now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u133	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2853/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2853/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u134	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 75 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 54 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2836/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2836-5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1488/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1488/8) Reason for abstinence? [[(]] No. [[)]] Reason for abstention? ( Non )
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u136	A motion was tabled by Mrs Griet Smaers, Mr Benoît Friart and Michel de Lamotte, Mrs Nele Lijnen and Mr Leen Dierick and Mr Johan Klaps. A motion was tabled by Ms. Griet Smaers, MM. Benoît Friart and Michel de Lamotte, Ms Nele Lijnen and Ms Leen Dierick and Mr Johan Klaps. This motion was tabled in the plenary session of 22 February 2018. This motion was tabled in plenary on February 22, 2018. I put to the vote the motion by Mrs Griet Smaers, Mr Benoît Friart and Michel de Lamotte, Mrs Nele Lijnen and Leen Dierick and Mr Johan Klaps. I put to the vote the motion of Mrs Griet Smaers, MM. Benoît Friart and Michel de Lamotte, Ms Nele Lijnen and Ms Leen Dierick and Mr Johan Klaps. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u137	Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total The motion will be passed. (2351/3) The motion was adopted. (2351/3) It will be notified to the Planning Bureau. This will be reported to the Planning Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-22-54-plenair-ip215x.u138	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 1 March 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, March 1, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you a pleasant continuation. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 1 March 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 1 March 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
