ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u2	We shall resume the discussion of the Government's statement. We resume the discussion of the government's statement. I call Mr Clarinval. Mr Clarinval has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u3	I see the ranks are thinner after the lunch break. Mr Prime Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared a general introduction to this debate, but I would like to begin by going back to Mr Di Rupo's behaviour this morning. I'm stunned, I don't have any other words. Have we ever seen a Member of Parliament come up to this rostrum and announce that he will not answer any questions asked? That is precisely the definition of democratic debate. What a lack of respect for the parliamentary debate. Secondly, Mr Di Rupo refers to his deafness when he is questioned for concrete facts by colleagues from all quarters of this Parliament. [[...]] I would not speak of deafness either, Mr.Laaouej, but rather of denial in the face of the reality of the facts, or, somewhere, of a form of horse racing behind the PTB. I really regret that the debate on ideas is no longer valued in the socialist ranks, and that was the perfect demonstration this morning. But this denial was already present four years ago. Remember when you announced that this majority would not last more than six months. You are taxiing her with suicide, suicide bombers, betting on her imminent fall, announcing the dismantling of the welfare state - these are all the terms that have been used - predicting the explosion of unemployment and exclusion, auguring at the end of Belgium before even getting acquainted with the government's programme. Four years later, Mr Laaouej, since Mr Di Rupo is no longer there, the government is still there. Yes, I know, you told me he had... (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u4	Mr Clarinval, I shall pass the floor to Mr Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u5	Mr Clarinval, I am very sorry to have to tell you this, but I came to you to explain that Mr Di Rupo was attending Clara Di Rupo's funeral this afternoon. You mentioned the fact that he is not present, without specifying the reason. Precisely, since you referred to the quality of parliamentary debates, I do not find this to be equal to what a parliamentary debate should be, particularly with respect for people when it comes to their family privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u6	I did not attack Mr. Di Rupo on his absence for private reasons. I just said, "I am speaking to you, Mr. Laaouej, because you are here and Mr. Di Rupo is not here." It's factual. What do you want me to say? Listen to the recording again, if you don't agree. In any case, what I wanted to tell you, Mr. Laaouej, is that, four years later, the government is still there. The welfare state is strengthened. Our country's economy is back on track. Belgium is stabilized and democracy is still as vigorous in its lively and critical debates, as we are now witnessing. Four years later, the four parties of the majority continue to work together around a common project: more prosperity and well-being. Four years later, no fewer than 580 reforms were undertaken and carried out. Reforming is never the choice of ease. Reforming is first and foremost the choice of responsibility. If we were to improve the state of our country, bring it new perspectives, we had to make that choice. We had to be bold, dared to change paradigms, let go of political readiness-to-think, and especially short-termism. By instilling a real long-term vision for the future, the government has set a course, goals to be met in the face of the many challenges of the future. Four years ago, the decisions were mocked and disgusted by a revancuous opposition. The results, however, gave reason to the past choices. In order to illustrate this, I will examine with you several emblematic dossiers that have gleamed these years. The issue of reforming our pension system is the one that, in my view, best illustrates this government's long-term vision. For too many years, this sector has been neglected and no one dared to carry out the reforms that are essential to its financing and its necessary sustainability. Minister Bacquelaine has undertaken this task with great courage. He had the merit of putting a clear and taboo vision on this delicate issue. It took a lot of taboos to get rid of. Those who criticize the reform of the legal age of retirement or the strengthening of early retirement conditions were the same who warned that, without reform, there was a real risk that the country would be unable to pay future pensions. I have a little guess, Mr. Laaouej. Who said, in the area of pensions, "it is imperative that measures be taken to ensure that, gradually, every person between the ages of 50 and 60 works longer than today; if we do not do so, today's young people will have to pay unbearable sums to ensure an acceptable level of social security or, then, we will simply no longer have effective social security for everyone"? Who said that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u7	You ask questions, so we answer, unless you don't want an answer. I don't care. It was we who wanted to push people who could work until the pension age and who introduced a whole series of systems, including the pension bonus, to get the working-age population to work as long as possible. As you can see, it is a policy totally contrary to yours that is to say: "No, we don't care. What we want is even for people who can no longer work, increase the pension age". That's bullshit! I would point out that these are exactly the terms that the current Minister of Pensions developed during the election campaign. During the election campaign that preceded this legislature, the current Minister of Pensions said that going beyond the age of 65 was a heresy. But, of course, the government constituted, we went beyond it. This is one example of the MR's deceit towards voters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u8	Mr Clarinval, guess for guess, who said in 2013: "It was essential to take a measure about VAT on electricity that fits into time in order to support the purchasing power of citizens at a time when energy expenditure represents a heavy financial burden in families' budgets."?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u9	I'm talking about pensions. We talked about energy this morning with colleague De Roover. I asked you a question. You didn't answer that. The answer was Elio Di Rupo, Mr. Nollet, you're right. At the time, he thought it wise to work longer to avoid endangering social security. You have the art of drowning fish, but you haven't answered my question. I would also point out that there were ten socialist ministers in charge of pensions between 1988 and 2011. The effectiveness of the reforms implemented has been seen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u10	You are the Julien Lepers of the MR!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u11	I may be the Julien Lepers of the MR, but you're not a good candidate. In any case, thanks to the harmonisation of schemes, the alignment of self-employed pensions with employees, the acquisition of years of study, the abolition of the career unit and the graduation bonus, the pension system has become clearer, readable and more equitable. The system has also become more supportive. More solidarity, because it is in total no less than 900 million euros, since the beginning of the legislature, that have been devoted to the fight against poverty among older people. The minima for full careers, which had increased by just 13 euros during the previous term, saw an increase of 122 euros for employees and 185 euros for the self-employed. This is the same observation for the Income Guarantee for the Elderly (GRAPA): 19 euros under Mr Di Rupo against 106 under this government. And this is not over, since the part-time retirement pension is a new opportunity to set up the end of a career because it will encourage a number of workers to pursue a work activity under a reduced schedule. A second emblematic issue of this government's long-term vision is the restoration of the competitiveness of our businesses. The competitiveness of the latter has been restored since the advent of the Michel government: job creation is at the highest, unemployment has drastically decreased, which encourages investment and entrepreneurship. The result is new opportunities for economic growth, a source of revenue for our social security. This is the virtuous circle set up by this government! The best bulwark against poverty – we are convinced – is employment and we have devoted much of our energy to it. To do this, it was imperative to support our companies, because they are the first to be involved. Thus, the reduction of employers' contributions from 33 to 25 %, the exemption from the charges for the first job, the extension of overtime, flexi-jobs, the reform of ISOC, support for sectors in difficulty, such as Horeca, are some of the measures that have enabled Belgium to recover its economy. Since 2015, no fewer than 219,000 jobs have been created. Similarly, the unemployment rate is falling dramatically in all age groups, while our wage disadvantage has been reduced. I would remind you that it was still 4% higher than that of the neighbouring countries at the beginning of the legislature. All these reforms to support employment have helped reduce unemployment benefit expenditure by around €1.6 billion over the last five years. I am realistic; there are still two shadows in the table: on the one hand, the employment rate which, despite its 1.2% increase between 2014 and the fourth quarter of 2017, fails to reach the target of 73% in the perspective of 2020; on the other hand, the vacancy rate, almost twice as high as that of the other European states. We have 135,000 vacancies, while 50 per cent of these positions do not require any experience and 60 per cent do not require a diploma.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u12	Mr. Clarinval, excuse me for interrupting. I would like to take this opportunity to discuss this issue with you. You make a direct link between reducing unemployment and creating jobs. According to you, this explains that. Let me recall a few facts! Firstly, it is true that part of the fall in unemployment is due to job creation and, above all, to job creation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u13	Aaah...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u14	Servais, listen to the rest of my talk! In addition, honesty, Mr. Minister of Employment and Mr. Prime Minister, would like an objective analysis of the situation. Let us recognize that factors other than job creation can explain the decline in unemployment benefit. First of all, I am thinking of the three-year limit on integration allowances. This has necessarily led to a reduction in unemployment, without putting it into employment. Secondly, let us also consider the mechanism of excluding unemployment, which has also explained a reduction in the unemployment rate, without the necessary employment! Thirdly, part of the unemployment benefit has been transferred to disability benefits. It is important to mention this. We have comments like those of yesterday or those I have just heard again, saying that "the unemployment rate has fallen thanks to us, thanks to the jobs created. It would be more honest to express things in a completely different way. First of all, I should like to point out the elements I have mentioned. There is also a need to work on the number of unemployed jobseekers, as this has not decreased. This is the crucial point in my eyes and it must be the subject of an objective analysis. It will enable us to identify the actions to be taken and set ambitious targets.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u15	I'm being questioned about Catherine Fonck. I tried to be nuanced yesterday in my statement by pointing out two elements, including the jobs created. Two or three years ago, when the first jobs were created, I was rightly pointed out in this House that jobs were created but that the unemployment rate was not falling. The employment rate was therefore not rising. However, for some time now, there have been both additional jobs - 219,000 jobs, and 300,000 according to the Planning Office for the coming years - and a decrease in the number of fully unemployed job-seekers, according to one ONSS source, by 106,000. This represents a decrease of 23.5%, this had never happened. The unemployment rate has been lowest since 1981. Is that enough? No! That is why the very first priority I have set out is the job deal. The paradox is that, despite these good results in terms of jobs, many potential jobs remain unoccupied. This is the issue of job vacancies. Hence the mobilization in a philosophy very different from what has been done in the past. Indeed, we wanted to draw objectively the consequences of the past, not by means of measures aimed at excluding unemployment, but aimed at putting in place a mechanism which encourages training and support as soon as possible. It's the deal job. You are right on one additional point: disability remains a major concern. This phenomenon does not date from this legislature, the official figures are at your disposal. Depression and burn out have really exploded and are a major issue – which I mentioned – on which the social partners have worked and for which the Ministers of Employment and Health have taken initiatives. However, I believe that a huge amount of work still needs to be done. Finally, you can take into account the consequences of the measures of the previous government in terms of exclusion from unemployment, but depending on the way of accounting, we talk about a few tens of thousands of people maximum. This does not, therefore, affect the good results achieved in terms of unemployment and job creation. We need to redouble our efforts – which I want to do – in the context of the trade jobs with all the partners of this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, in addition to what the Prime Minister said, I can tell you that my colleague Maggie De Block and I have asked the RSZ to launch detailed figures on a monthly basis. Mrs Fonck, you are right that we should also study the level of effectiveness. In Belgium, with the level of effectiveness, we are still not at the European level. That is why we have asked our services to also calculate the level of effectiveness in a good way. You note that the group is wider than just the unemployed who are being talked about. Good figures enable us to follow up closely. There is still some discussion about the methodology for achieving the figures, but I hope that we will soon be able to publish the activity rate periodically, so that we can discuss it if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u17	Mr President, first of all, I understand that the government recognizes that, indeed, in terms of reducing the unemployment rate, it is not simply a job placement and that a whole range of other elements must be taken into account – and these are objective facts. When things are said, I like to be said entirely and not partially, in order to present things properly. Furthermore, Mr Minister for Employment, I can only share what you say. Your Government had said that it had set itself the employment target of meeting Europe's 2020 target for the participation rate or employment rate. In fact, we are still very far from it today. I am not saying that no jobs have been created: jobs have been created! The question, however, is whether there are really more jobs created, first of all, than what had been estimated a priori, without any policy before the establishment of the government, secundo, if we compare at European level, whether at the rate of growth or in relation to job creation, it is true that we are not really among the right pupils, but rather in the last ten of the thirty Member States. The argument that we have better resisted the financial crises and that we have therefore started at a lower rate than the loss of jobs and that we have made progress, I hear, but I cannot fully share it. Looking at Germany, for example, it too has been terribly resilient to crises, and this has not prevented it from continuing to make impressive progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u18	After Ms. Fonck's intervention, I feel stimulated and encouraged to react. [[...]] This is not a good word for your colleague at all. I thought I had another vision of the parliamentary debate. To go back to the background: you are quoting, Mrs Fonck, countries - Germany - which are better ranked than we are in terms of growth rates and therefore also with an impact on their budgetary situation, which is better than ours. They are also countries that have initiated structural reforms for a longer time than we have been doing in our country. These are some of the structural reforms that you are challenging, your party is challenging, and other opposition parties are also challenging. We can't plead everything and the opposite. We cannot say "you are less well ranked than Germany" and at the same time accuse us of implementing only part of the reforms necessary to progress in terms of growth rates and activity rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u19	Mrs Fonck has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u20	Since the Prime Minister seems to be stimulated and interested in the debate, I am. Thank you for your answer. The debate is interesting because, here, we are no longer at all in the caricature debate. I'll just allow myself one thing in relation to what you just said. I will start with structural reforms. In relation to the whole tax shift issue, the opposition parties have not developed the same argument and have not, in fact, developed the same votes, I would remind you, including on employment and labour reform. You always tend to put everyone in the same bag. In my personal capacity and on behalf of my party, I would like to go back to two or three elements relating to the measures that have made it possible to increase the competitiveness of companies. The first is the fact that the projections made by the Planning Office well before the decisions made on these policy measures had projected as many job creations, in a similar way, as the results you have today. Secondly, we had a discussion at that time, which I am putting on the table today, and I also note that employers' federations have evolved over this debate. I had a dialogue a few days ago with some employers' federations which, I must say, obviously have the same position as ours, on how to reduce the rate of social contributions. The main question was whether the rate of social contributions should be reduced in a cross-cutting way or whether it should be selective, more targeted in policy terms and a reduction in social contributions to the lowest wages. Indeed, and this does not come from me, economists say that in terms of efficiency and hence jobs created, the existence of a more wage-oriented policy leads to a much higher number of jobs. We must therefore recognize, and this is the third element that poses a problem to me, and by which I will conclude, Mr President, that you have carried out the reform. Has this reform made it possible to increase the competitiveness of enterprises? I have just spoken about job creation, but at some point there is also a question of cost. Is funding now fully secured? The answer is no. Once again, these are not statements of opposition. The bill is postponing. KUL showed it, as did the Plan Bureau. This calls into question the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u21	I see that this stimulating debate does not separate us very much, because there is convergence on certain elements. Unfortunately, the figures we are making are indisputable. The Office of the Plan was well below the actual results of the implementation of government policy. I can't let that go.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u22	Mr Clarinval, I would like to remind you that by the time you brought all the tax shift measures to Parliament, the National Bank had calculated that by 2019, the tax shift would not be financed to the tune of €6.6 billion. The bill now stands at $8 billion for the last two years of your mandate. Mrs. Fonck is absolutely right. From the start, your tax shift was not funded. I can still hear a number of members of the government telling us that it will fund itself with the return effects. At the budgetary level, in the broad sense of the term, both fiscal and parafiscal, these returns are not there. For the rest, if you want numbers, we can give you one, but earlier, you asked me some questions. I was comparing you to Julien Lepers and his show "Questions for a Champion" and I was pointed out that he no longer loved the show, but no matter! On the index jump, Mr. Michel said earlier that people should not be charged. Can you tell us, over the entire legislature, how high will the overall puncture of the index jump on the payroll rise? To an amount of 12.5 billion caught in the pocket of workers, supposedly, to revive the economy. As has been said, academics tell us that job creation is essentially the result of the international economic situation. Mr Van Overtveldt, you may have a debate with Professor Peersman, if you wish, but the KUL says the same thing and several public institutions tell us about the structural and decisive effect of the international situation on job creation. This means that your earnings, reductions in employer contributions, index jumps only have a marginal effect, let's not say that, but an incident on job creation. The rest is the international situation, but in the meantime, you will have punctuated $12.5 billion on the payroll.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u23	Ms. Fonck spoke of the Job Creation Bureau's projections. I replied that the predictions of the Planning Office had been largely overtaken by the actual job creations observed over the years in question. You come with the National Bank's tax shift predictions. So you're talking about something else. We were talking about predictions in terms of job creation. I'm so sorry! Take up the predictions of the Planning Office, you will find that the exact job creation figures are far above what was planned by the Planning Office! It's a first element. You always come back with this story of tax shift financing. Every year, during the budget, you have a long intervention on the financing of the tax shift. I note that today we are in 2018 and that the tax shift is funded. Every year, during the budget debate, the government implements the means to finance the tax shift. You're talking about two different things, but there's a fundamental point: this government has created a lot of jobs through a dynamic policy to implement the competitiveness of our businesses. I'm sorry, Mr. Laaouej, that's indisputable!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u24	The first point, Mr Laaouej, is that I think you know the difference between the state budget and the tax shift budget. You are trying to make the assembly believe that, with regard to the tax shift taken indifferently, one can have a difference of opinion as to whether or not it is funded. You are using the Plan Bureau's projections to make it appear that these projections in terms of medium-term deficit, i.e. unchanged policy, I would remind you, are the result of the tax shift. You forget, probably on purpose too, that from year to year, the state budget must include an additional 1.7 billion to 2 billion pension costs per year. That is why we have taken the measures that we have to take because we know that apart from the tax shift, the cost of pensions also affects the state budget and that, when we talk about the state budget, you have to take it as a whole with the costs that are changing substantially, as is the case with the pension budget. With regard to the state budget, I would also remind you that our government has divided the deficit, whether structural or nominal, by three. It may be over your head, but we believe that improving public finances is in everyone's interest! Also, Mr Laaouej, with regard to your recriminations of index jumps, a measure which has indeed not been easy to take, but which is essential to the competitiveness of our companies, I would remind you that tax shift is not only a measure which, through the competitiveness of companies, could create jobs. It is also a measure that increases the purchasing power of citizens - yes, it increases the purchasing power of the people who work - as we have worked on the tax reform of natural persons. Maybe you forgot it? That too is the tax shift. With regard to real disposable income - this is the figure of the Office of the Plan, not that of the FEB or of the office of study of the MR - of its positive evolution, we find that under the former government - and it is true that the situation was complicated, we must be in good condition! - the evolution from year to year was almost zero or even negative, whereas in this case the changes are not only positive but, in addition, multiply over time. Between 2014 and 2015, for example, real disposable income rose to 0.5%, while in 2019 it will be 1.9% and while, I would remind you, under the previous socialist leadership it was negative, if not zero.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u25	I am really sorry to have to tell you, Mrs Wilmès: there is a lot of counter-truth in your remarks! So I'm going to write a note to our Prime Minister's famous fact-checking fund. There will already be congestion: this anti-fake news fund will be in deficit even before it is launched! More seriously, I am surprised first of all by your argument that the cost of pensions alone increases the bill (2 billion euros). But it's not familiar with the National Bank! Do you think that when it makes its estimates, when it runs its models, it does not already integrate the cost of aging? In other words, the bill that gets heavier because of the wrong decisions you make is the result of your policies, not that of elements already present in the funding model. I would remind you that there is a Study Committee on Ageing under the Higher Finance Council, which does this very well and could provide you with the figures with all the trajectories already integrating the cost of ageing. I therefore believe that your argument in this respect is not on the road! For the rest, it was not us Socialists who announced "with the return effects, in 2018, we will be at the balance of the budget". We're not there! Where we need to be right is that our country has been going through particularly dramatic situations, with costs that could not have been envisaged from the start - lockdown, attacks, and so on. All this amounts to a few hundred million too much, of course, especially for the reasons we know, but this is not the reason why, for the last two years, you still need 8 billion! Clearly, you are in a situation of budget failure. I'm sorry to tell you. Despite what you can tell, I continue to say that the measures you have taken have not had an effective effect on job creation. Again, I'm not saying it, it's the University of Ghent. Now, if you want to have a debate with academics, do it! I would be very interested in hearing them and, why not, in the Finance Committee. But what you're saying is not what most academic analysts say, especially KU Leuven and the University of Ghent. Another point on which I think it is useful to react is the debate on VAT on electricity. You're saying we're gonna charge ENGIE Electrabel, because we don't want to charge taxpayers. But you made them pay, the taxpayers. You've increased the VAT on electricity. What is this argument that doesn't hold the road either? You're telling us that you don't want to make taxpayers pay, when you've already made them pay. Here too, Prime Minister, this is an argument that does not stand the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u26	Mr. Laaouej, we're not going to sneeze. The purpose of my speech is not to say that there is no longer any deficit. There's a deficit. We had to divide it by three, but there's still a deficit. This is an objective reality, Mr Laaouej, to which no attempt is being made to escape. On the other hand, the conclusions that are yours and that tend to try to explain that the reasons for the deficit are the result of the tax shift policy are wrong. It's a rough intellectual montage that doesn't hold the road. This tax shift that you call "boulet", we call it "increased purchasing power for workers", but that's another concern. So, when you acknowledge that in four years of government we unfortunately lost a year at the budget level - as you rightly point out - it was an extremely painful year for all our compatriots, let us put aside - you also justify the demonstration that, despite a lost year, we managed to divide the deficit by three. Hold it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u27	Prime Minister, did this mean: 2 + 2 = 4? Let's try to raise the debate a little bit! You divided the deficit by three, but how much is it? You promised us a return to balance for 2018. You're not there! You're telling us it's not because of the tax shift. You're acting like there's a total leak between the state budget and the social security budget. Mrs Wilmès, when you cut social contributions and definance social security, there is a mechanical impact on public finances in general. Secondly, your tax cuts have been largely offset by increases in consumption taxes. You say it yourself and make an argument about it. You are told that you took with one hand what you gave with the other, you say: "No, not at all. We have reduced the PPI more than we have increased taxes on consumption." You always forget the index jump and its impact on household budgets, by the way. The return effects are not there, as the University of Ghent and KUL say. All you have injected in terms of tax and parafiscal revenue cuts has not resulted in wage bill increases, which themselves would refinance the state budget and social security. The reason for the worsening deficit is there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I must intervene because we must ensure that the debate does not get bogged down or last too long. Moreover, we must keep to the agreements, with two-minute interruptions. This also has to do with the respect we have to pay to those colleagues who still have to speak. I therefore propose that we listen to Mr Clarinval, who has hardly had the time to make his plea. Mr Clarinval, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u29	It is undeniable that there have been 220,000 job creations since the establishment of this government and that unemployment has been at the lowest in many years. That is indisputable, however Mr Laaouej thinks. For the self-employed, the measures taken under this legislature will have a long-term effect. In addition to a marked improvement in their social status and a reduction in their contributions, we have also taken measures aimed at the well-being of the self-employed: the extension of maternity leave, the alignment of the minimum pension amounts or the creation of a second pillar of the pension. This translates very quickly into an increase in the total number of self-employed by almost 3% in 2017. Today, there are nearly 1,087,000 independents, compared to 1,058,000 in 2016. That's proof that we're on the right path. To improve the competitiveness of enterprises, SMEs or self-employed people, there are not just financial measures. The recasting of the Company Code is a major step towards achieving this objective, as the codification of the rules on commercial companies dates back to 1999, while the law on associations dates back to 1921. By adopting a single Code for companies and associations, this reform will not only promote the development of Belgian companies but also the establishment in Belgium of foreign companies and associations. Today, economic indicators are green and the results are tangible. Today, our country is stronger and more stable than four years ago. I'm not saying it, it's the National Bank, the Plan Bureau, the European Commission, the OECD or the IMF! We've just talked a lot about the budget, so I'm going to shorten it. Not only has fiscal consolidation been achieved, but it is being done in good intelligence, as it allows us not to cut our investment wings and to put in place an ambitious national pact for strategic investments, initiated by the Prime Minister, which will mobilise almost 150 billion euros by 2030. We are therefore cleaning up the budget and investing in strategic options for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u30	Mr Clarinval, what you have just mentioned echoes a very interesting figure that the Prime Minister gave yesterday: 12.9 billion reductions in the burden for employers. I call this 12.9 billion salary theft! We're stealing the workers' gross wages! Such a sum over four years is quite impressive! Moreover, this amount is not offset by the tax shift, as the government claims. This represents, on the one hand, additional taxes and, on the other, less taxes for households. If they compensate themselves, the tax shift includes, on the other hand, salary gifts. This explains why you remain in deficit. Indeed, the EUR 12.9 billion in budgetary efforts that you have imposed on the population have been granted to the employers. This is the double penalty for our fellow citizens who are simultaneously suffering austerity and the maintenance of the budget deficit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u31	Mr. President, Mr. Van Hees talks about "wage theft." For our part, we are talking about restoring purchasing power to workers. It's not exactly the same lens. When we observe the results of the policies carried out by Mr. Van Hees, as in Venezuela, we know which option should be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u32	Mr President, I should just like to point out that when Mr Clarinval comes to speak about Venezuela, it is because he has no answer for Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u33	Mr. Van Hees, you were talking about "wage theft." My answer is that we give back purchasing power to workers. Similarly, the national debt now shows a steady decline from 107 per cent in 2014 to 103,4 per cent in 2017. This positive trend continues. To achieve this, the government has not taxed the weakest or imposed new taxes, as the opposition is trying to increase. It was able to achieve these results by reducing current expenditure, while reducing the tax burden. The European Commission reported that the tax burden had fallen by 1.2% of GDP compared to 2014. This rate represents more than EUR 5 billion back in workers' pockets. Thanks to the tax shift, in 2019, an additional €1.5 billion will be allocated to strengthen our competitiveness and purchasing power. Before proceeding to the next chapter, I would like to point out that figures have been mentioned in absolute terms. However, when looking at a worker whose salary is 1,500 euros gross per month, it should be borne in mind that the impact of the tax shift in 2019 will be a monthly increase of 146 euros net. This represents 1,752 net euros per year. Mr Van Hees, I do not call this the "wage flight", but a "restitution of purchasing power to workers". I have the numbers here that prove it, Mr. Nollet. The government's action is also social. In particular, it supports single-parent families at particular risk of poverty. Isolated parents with limited professional income now receive additional tax support. The exempted quota for isolated persons increased by EUR 1 000. In addition, the child care tax reduction was increased from 45 per cent to 75 per cent. These measures help to counter job traps and, in doing so, contribute to the fight against poverty. However, we do not live on an island and we are obviously dependent on a globalized economy. The trade war between the United States and China continues and affects Europe. And if Brexit is chaotic, the impact on our economy could be severe. In addition to these economic concerns within the Union, there is the delicate issue of immigration. We know this – the various political squabblings across Europe prove this – the issue of immigration is worrying and worrying our fellow citizens. The answers to be given must be twofold: to the necessary humanity and solidarity, must also be added firmness, without denying our values. Since 2014, nearly 40,000 people have been welcomed to our country. The latter was the seventh most welcoming European country in relation to its population in 2017. The current government also issues more humanitarian visas than the previous ones. In addition to these figures are family reunifications, which account for 50% of visas, economic and student migration. If the reception of refugees is the rule, the fight against illegal immigration and smugglers is a priority for us, for our government, just as it must be a priority for the European Union. This implies a strengthening of the policy of the effective return of rejected applicants or illegal residents and the necessary strengthening of our external borders. It is the balance between rights and duties that must be maintained. We therefore advocate at European level for strengthening the external borders and destroying the business model of smugglers. We need to give greater priority to reception in regions bordering on conflicts and to promote a better economy through, in particular, development cooperation. Our Prime Minister alluded to this yesterday, another issue that will be structuring in the long term is that of meeting the defence commitments that were made in October 2014. The government has designed a trajectory for our army, through strategic vision 2016-2030. It has adopted a law of military programming, the first in our history, which marks, for the coming decades, the most important purchases for each of the components (wheeling vehicles for the Army of Earth with the French, ships for the Navy with the Dutch and the replacement of our F-16s). These texts demonstrate the commitment of the government and its successors to provide our armies with the material they need today and for the years to come, thus reflecting our commitment to building a European defence, in which our companies must find their full place. Security, of course, remains a major issue. Nor has it escaped its necessary and essential reform package to ensure a safe and secure environment for all our fellow citizens. To this end, the government has developed a vision over several years. This strategy is embodied in the framework note, which serves as a reference for all actors involved in the country's security policy. A rationalization process has been launched, both within the framework of the plan on the essential tasks of the police, including the establishment of the Federal Police Security Directorate or in the reform of civil protection, which aims to refocus civil protection on its core missions. A process of rationalization, therefore, but also a dynamic of modernization. As far as the police are concerned, the Government has been working for several years to increase the capacity and strength of the police. Attacks and physical or verbal violence against our police officers are increasing. We would like to remind them that we are at their side and that we give them our full support. In this regard, additional tools are being provided to provide an appropriate response to phenomena that we strongly condemn. These include the enforcement of security sentences or the establishment of an Internet site to enable police officers to report physical or mental violence. Another major area where government action demonstrates the ambition to act in the long term is health. The latter, too, has experienced the necessary reforms to maintain our social security, which is one of the best in the world. Consider the hospital reform, the reform of mental health, the pact with mutualities, the pharmaceutical pact! These reforms are necessary to meet several short-, medium- and long-term challenges: improving the accessibility and quality of our care and ensuring the sustainability of the system, given the ageing of the population, the increase in chronic diseases, the increase in rare diseases and the evolution of medical techniques. These developments have a cost and as we do not want to send the bill to future generations, we must control the growth of health care spending and ensure that every euro spent is optimally spent. Since the beginning of the legislature, expenditure on health care insurance has increased by more than €3 billion to a total of €25 billion. The fight against waste and over-consumption must, however, remain a priority. It is also necessary to point out some key advances that demonstrate that this government is multiplying initiatives to help the most vulnerable. Since January 1, 2017, the reimbursement of anti-viral treatments for hepatitis C has been extended to new categories of patients. We have implemented the reimbursement of HIV inhibitors for all patients infected with the virus, regardless of their stage of infection. Since 1 January, immunotherapy has been reimbursed more quickly in the event of cancer. Finally, since 1 September, patients with spinal amyotrophy may be reimbursed for an orphan medicine used to treat this infection. For the first time too, it is a budget of more than EUR 22 million that is set aside for the reimbursement of psychological care. As for urgent medical aid - which is a matter of the heart of the municipalists - it has been able to benefit from a structural contribution of more than 35 million. In conclusion, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a little height and adopt a slightly broader perspective. As I have been able to demonstrate, our government has made a great many decisions to adapt our country to changes in society. The reforms aim to change our system over the long term. But they must not stop now, because the challenges announced are dizzying. I am thinking first of the profound changes in the labour market. This is a fundamental issue for the creation, in the strict sense of the term, of new forms of trade; for the development of a whole series of innovative sectors focused on new technologies; but also for the support of entire parts of our economy which will be made obsolete. Another challenge will be the gradual automation of the worker. The latter finds ad hoc work via a digital platform and can do it outside an office, or even stay at home if it is intellectual work. The relationship between employee and employer then gives way to a relationship between a claimant and a client. This phenomenon is still marginal, but it is expected to develop. It is likely that the wage earner will not disappear, because the company is nothing more than a bundle of contracts. It is a form that remains practical to coordinate many activities of a different nature. But the number of self-employed workers is likely to increase significantly in the coming years. They are neither employees nor really self-employed, as they are highly dependent on these platforms. It is an intermediate category that will need an ad hoc status and protection. Here too, the pension sector is primarily concerned. In particular, social security will have to be reinvented. Today, we need to think about systems involving the important digital platforms, the systems where they would contribute to the pensions of the self-employed. It's a great challenge in perspective. Finally, I am thinking of the various challenges and improvements that could be brought about by scientific progress, particularly transhumanistic improvements for the future of the human being. These new challenges require a real forward-looking dynamic and ambitious partners for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u34	Did I hear that your goal was transhumanism? Could you explain a little more? I know that Corentin de Salle defends him and that he has written a text, but tell me what you are aiming for by transhumanism!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u35	I'll send you the text. You can read it. I said that we need to think about how society will adapt, in particular, to the advent of a whole series of technologies. I have quoted about ten evolutions (robotization, platforms) and I have spoken, in particular, about a form of transhumanism in health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u36	What is the form of transhumanism that you defend?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u37	It exists! If you want, I'll send you some very interesting books. You seem to be discovering the subject. You will see that, in some countries already, a whole series of changes are being made on the human being with increases, whether at the level of the brain, prosthetics and other mechanisms. In this Parliament we will have to think about how to implement this in the future and how we will ensure that there is no slippage in ethics. That is the challenge for the years to come. Do you understand, Mr. Nollet? You take a word out of my speech and make it a theory. I have read quite a few books on this subject. I can give you a few references. I was therefore saying that these new challenges require a real forward-looking dynamic and ambitious partners for our country. It was urgent to regain the notion of long time, to fight what some call the dictatorship of urgency. That is what this government has been able to do in the various aspects of its policy. Remember, remember, remember, remember, Six months, that's what the Cassandres promised us. In reality, the majority now has a little more than six months left to implement the latest reforms under way and to implement new measures to continue the momentum of recovery and progress that our country needed greatly. We don't let go of the guard. We will continue our efforts to the end. That is why, Prime Minister, I will not surprise you by telling you that the MR will enthusiastically vote for confidence in this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u38	Mr. Clarinval, for a little while. Mr Nollet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u39	Mr Clarinval, just to highlight your prowess: twenty-four hours after the IPCC report was published, you were able to talk about transhumanism for half an hour here in the gallery without saying a word about the climate. Honestly, hat!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u40	It was a very interesting intervention, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u41	I call Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, almost four years ago you came to the Chamber with a programme of government and asked for your confidence here. You came up with a government agreement that focused on socio-economic reforms. Colleagues, that was necessary. Our country was still suffering the consequences of the financial crisis. Our country was facing structural problems at the time. Four years later, ladies and gentlemen, when we look at all the objective figures and ask ourselves whether our country is better off than at the start of this government, the answer is absolutely yes. Colleagues, this government is doing what it has promised. We have been working to strengthen the economy and the labour market by helping more people to get a job and, above all, by keeping more people on the job for longer, by reducing the burden on labour and thus improving the competitiveness of our companies, a problem at the start of the legislative term, by increasing the net wages of the people and by encouraging those who want to do business. That is why we have so many start-ups today. Colleagues, our memory is short, but may I freshen it up? At the beginning of this parliamentary term, when our group called for a tax shift, there was a lot of discussion about this. In the end, this majority has achieved this and it has actually not become a shift but a tax reduction that is good for the companies and net wages of the people, and especially those who deserve the least. That is precisely why this is a very social tax reform. Prime Minister, you rightly pointed it out yesterday. On January 1st, the wages of the people with the lowest incomes and middle incomes are rising. We do not forget the middle class again. That's good. I've heard interesting academic and political discussions. How many jobs does that get? We have seen different figures from the National Bank, in the study of the KUL and that's more. Colleagues, that is a very interesting intellectual discussion, but the people who did not have a job yesterday and today, or the people who had a job yesterday and deserve more today thanks to the reform, will not care if it is due to an improving economic situation or to government measures. Both are positive. Let us be satisfied with that. What matters is that income increases.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u43	Mr Verherstraeten, I find the way in which you are trying to bury the debate on the tax shift rhetorically interesting. I almost walked into it, but not quite. You're saying it's gonna be the people who got a job from the tax shift sausage. I think you are going through a very short period of time. You mentioned a number of reports. A report you have not mentioned is the report of the Federal Planning Office of September 2018, so very recently. I believe that this should be read by all the Members of the majority because it makes a plea for a much greater focus on the lowest and middle incomes than is the case today. They have done the exercise which has resulted in this reduction of charges and which could lead to a more targeted reduction of charges. That means an effect times two for job creation. This also means that the cost per job would be significantly lower. They did the math. Now the tax shift costs about 57 000 euros per job created. If more focus were to be focused, EUR 20,000 would go off. In my opinion, we should not ignore such elements, especially when you say that jobs are your mantra and great ambition. This government could actually have created many more jobs with the tax shift, given the size of its volume, but you did not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u44	Mr Calvo, this tax reform has indeed been the most important tax reform of this legislature. However, if you say that this reform is not targeted, then I formally oppose your statement. Perhaps you would have liked to direct this reform differently from us; that is a political choice. Our political choice was that the highest incomes should also benefit from this tax reform, but least, because the lowest incomes should benefit most from it. The reason is that we want to make the difference between working and not working as much as possible to encourage people to get to work. We have, of course, differed in this regard, and we also thought about the middle class, because we did not want to forget them. That is the most important aspect of this reform. This has led us to set a course which will add tens of thousands of jobs in the coming years. I think that is the success of this reform. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thought not only of the economy, but also, perhaps to the regret of some colleagues from the opposition, of social progress. We did that by helping people get a job, which I have just discussed, but also by increasing social spending in real terms. In the past, I have said this before. I do not make caricatures of the past, but I also do not like the caricatures of the present being made. Efforts have already been made in the past with regard to the lowest incomes and social benefits, but this government has done even more and better. Minimum pensions rose by 10 to 15% during this legislative period, between 123 euros and 185 euros net per month, depending on family status. The income guarantee for older people has increased by 10%, i.e. by EUR 1 000 on an annual basis. The living wage has risen by 10 to 13 %, which means 165 euros per month for a head of household. The invalidity allowance was increased by 40 to 90 euros per month. And in the wealth envelope for 2019 and 2020, we provide figures that will enable us to do even better. Mr Beke mentioned this morning the increase in social security figures. We have spent 2.5% more on social security per year. There is an annual increase of 2.5 %, despite the measures taken. As in the past, what was needed then, we have now taken the necessary measures. There is therefore an increase of 2.5 percent, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that, thanks to the additional jobs, we spend about 1.5 billion less on unemployment benefits compared to the past. However, that has not prevented us from paying out 124 billion in social security at the moment. Never before has this country spent so much on social security, and rightly so. Colleagues, the combination of jobs and the increase in benefits creates extra real purchasing power, not nominal purchasing power, but real purchasing power, year after year. That is not something we have proven, but it is shown by the figures of the Planning Bureau. For 2019, the Planning Bureau estimates the real increase in purchasing power for the population at almost 2%, namely 1.9 % to be precise. But a man doesn't live on bread alone. I certainly do not want to talk about transhumanism, but in addition to an extra net income, the combination of family and labour has fundamentally improved. We have extended various leave schemes; we have given more facilities to family members to care for a sick family member; we have provided career savings; we have arranged for the flexibilisation of a lot of thematic leave; we have increased the tax deduction for childcare for single parents. Colleagues, if we want to keep people on the job, it must also be feasible and compatible with their family and family life, with their private lives. That's the way forward. Economic growth with social progress is achieved not only with financial and social measures, but also with appropriate legal instruments for our companies, for sole proprietors, for families and families. This is how we bring justice into the 21st century. Prime Minister, your palmares look beautiful, but that is indeed no reason, as you said yesterday, to sit back. The work isn't finished yet. It has been mentioned repeatedly in the debates: our employment rate has improved during this legislature, but that does not prevent us from sitting in the belly of the peloton, but is still behind. We are doing worse than our neighbouring countries and are well behind, for example, the Netherlands or Germany. That is why we agreed on the working deal in the Summer Agreement. That is what we have done, because keeping more people working longer is so crucial, not only to cope with the cost of ageing but also to develop strong social security, which is exactly what we want. A comprehensive set of measures is necessary to enable a shortage of labour to be brought into line with the existing labour reserve. For us, this can be done through a positive approach, by stimulating people, by activating and motivating people and by developing more training. That too is part of the work deal. This can also be done by developing actions for groups at risk and by giving older workers the opportunity and right to enter soft runways on an individual basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u45	Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to hear you say that last summer's work deal must ensure that people get to work faster. I've listened to you very carefully. Well, you're just telling me the opposite of what you recorded in the summer chord. Firstly, you want to provide more training for the people. The only thing that was decided in the Summer Agreement is to ensure that the Flemish training premium is treated fiscally, but to the question of whether people receive more or less training, the current government does nothing. Secondly, you state that older workers must be able to enjoy more and work quietly. However, you have raised the age limit for runways from 55 years to 60 years. Will you then explain to me how the older worker who wants to work longer can do so in a workable way? Thirdly, and perhaps you will come to this point, I would like to hear from you how the reform of the degressivity of unemployment benefits, which will speed up the receipt of lower unemployment benefits, will ensure that those people will find a job more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u46	Mr Kitir, if the employment rate in our country is almost 10% lower than in the Netherlands and in Germany, we have a problem. If that's not your concern, you're playing with people's future. Then there is only one solution, and that is a solution that we had in mind in the previous legislature. Why did we then also take measures to keep people working longer and to postpone early retirement? It goes without saying that certain regulations on runways and alternatives are therefore moving forward. That's the logic of things. But you want to do so with general measures. We want to do this with very specific and targeted measures, as we did in this legislature, in particular tailored to the individual situation. For example, if someone needs to be cut down, or if someone has family concerns, the rights in this area are extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u47	Mr Verherstraeten, perhaps you will find it difficult to answer the question and say that our proposals, which I have not even explained today, are not working. I will explain the proposals of the sp.a later. However, I would like to hear from you how, by reducing the unemployment rate more quickly, by reducing the benefit of the people, you will make people find work faster? We'll tell you later that you raised the invoices. There is the increase in VAT, there is the index jump. In these times when people are struggling, where life has become more expensive, you tell those who lose their jobs, and who have not asked for them, that you are going to lower their benefits more quickly and that they will find work faster. How is that possible? Explain it to me, because I don't understand. How are you gonna get these people to work faster? You say that the same thing was done with the Socialists in the previous legislature. But we didn't! In the previous legislature, Mr Verherstraeten, it was an en-en-story. We made sure that the people were accompanied customized. Now we see that the VDAB must make one saving after another. Today there are fewer job seekers in training than before, Mr Verherstraeten. So I repeat my question. Why do you think people will get to work faster if you lower their benefits more quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u48	Mrs Kitir, Mr Verherstraeten undoubtedly wants to answer your question, but if the government asks to speak, it will get the same in our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u49	Mrs Kitir, I would like to remind you that one of those 28 measures is to stop the degressivity that exists today for the unemployed who are undergoing training for a bottleneck profession. There are, therefore, other measures in this 28 than the tax-free premium, to which you refer. Secondly, with regard to the degressivity of unemployment benefits, we have been able to discuss this a number of times in the past. If that's what you want, I'll remind you of what the previous government did. I have already quoted quotes from the Minister of Work at the time. After all, the degressivity was increased, with an increase of more than EUR 300 million in 2014. That actually happened according to a reasoning which you are now contesting and on which you are attacking us. So you must be consistent. Mrs De Coninck, if necessary, I can quote those quotes. For the degressivity that we are now putting forward, we are following the reasoning that we need to increase unemployment benefits in the first phase because we assume that in the future, in a digitised economy, it will often prevent people from losing their jobs temporarily. We want to maintain a level that is sufficiently high to avoid putting people in financial trouble. We also assume that this unemployment benefit should be reduced in a second phase. Of course, we are also convinced that this can only be done if sufficient activation is made, if the unemployed are also encouraged to receive training to ensure that they get to work as quickly as possible in both the first and second stages. You know that we have instructed the services to develop a number of scenarios, and you also know that there are antisocial situations in the current system that we want to remove. Unlike the previous government, which at the time had committed EUR 300 million in savings, we assume that we will be able to help 12 500 people get to work more quickly with the revenue that has been set aside for the budget. I know you are concerned about the reform of unemployment benefits, but I can assure you that we will make a number of proposals in November. We will, of course, keep a very close eye on the social aspect, but we will also see to it that it does not fall in the end. Especially for those below the poverty line, this will have to increase. We shall also make proposals on training, so that the result we are aiming for is indeed an activation, to which the Prime Minister referred yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u50	Mrs Kitir, I will of course not repeat myself, because I would have liked to have responded to some of the comments made by the Minister for Labour. However, let us be very clear: the measures for which the federal government is competent and for which it will assume full responsibility are not alone. Helping people to a job is a collective responsibility, in the first place of them, including the social partners, of course also of the federal government and certainly of the regional governments, as they are responsible for training. If the federal government, in conjunction with the regional governments, makes agreements, including the agreement that degressivity will not occur if one has been trained for a bottleneck profession, then it goes without saying and then it seems to me that the Flemish Government and the other regional governments will invest extra in training for bottleneck occupations. You say there aren't enough today, I'll join you in that. If we have the ambition to take federal measures which do not apply the degressivity if we are prepared to take training for a bottleneck profession, then regional governments must also make efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u51	Mr President, I actually want to respond to statements made by the Minister of Work regarding my statements. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a statement on finalities such as 'Everyone at work' implies a responsibility of the individual, but also of society and politics. I still support that. Of course, people must also be given opportunities. The main problem lies with the long-term unemployed who are often low-skilled. The fact that companies sometimes move in different directions and work with other instruments does not always give them the necessary training and training. A second problem is the fact that unemployment is paid by the federal government, while the supervision and activation of the unemployed are the responsibility of the Regions. They will not be punished financially if they do not help the unemployed to work, and that is one of the major problems in our state reform. We note that the Flemish level has still not taken its responsibilities in this area because it wants to be tough. In addition to the unemployed, however, it mainly penalises the business community, because they do not now find a skilled workforce. That's a big problem. Cooperation between the federal government and the regions is therefore necessary to achieve better results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u52	When colleague De Coninck says that the Regions and the federal government should cooperate better, I agree. When you say, Mr De Coninck, that we may ask for commitments from an unemployed person, but that the unemployed person should also be given opportunities at the same time, I agree. When you say that areas of competence such as the payment of unemployment benefits, on the one hand, and the training, supervision and sanctioning of the unemployed, on the other hand, are federally and regionally spread, that is true. However, if you conclude that one pays and the other decides, then that is no longer correct. In the previous legislature, we transferred a quarter of the personal income tax to the regions under the special financing law. In other words, any unemployed person who finds a job in Flanders, Brussels or Wallonia means a win for the income of those regions. It is a win-win situation, both for the federal government and for the regional government. Mr De Coninck, you are talking about the toughness of the Flemish region in relation to the other regions. Now, I invite you to look again at the current figures on sanctions, because then you will find that the Walloon Region is the most sanctioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u53	Mr Verherstraeten, I don't want to bother you too much...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u54	You're not bothering me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u55	I shall now raise this point for the last time, because I have already asked you three questions about this, but I have still not received an answer. Mr Verherstraeten, you say that degressivity will ensure that more people will be trained in bottleneck professions. You do know that job seekers are already being supervised today, don't you? Job seekers are already being offered training. You consolidate the situation by replying that those who follow a bottleneck vocational training will be spared. The question remains open to all the other job seekers. Mr De Coninck has just mentioned figures, which show that the majority of job seekers are not receiving training today and that job seekers who do wish to receive training are facing waiting lists. Your system consists of the fact that those who do not receive training see their benefit reduced. Minister, you are concealing this by saying that the unemployed will receive a little more benefit at the beginning of their unemployment, which seems a fantastic plan, but anyone looking for a job for three years will also have to pay his bills in the last two years of his unemployment. It does not therefore lead to a slightly higher level of unemployment compensation for those concerned at the beginning. With that question, I'm still hungry, and I'm not alone in that. There are several noises going on to wake you up, to discourage the degressivity of unemployment benefits. After all, the risk of poverty among job seekers is close to 50%. However, you claim that jobseekers, as they get a little more and are pushed into training at the beginning of their unemployment and receive lower benefits if they do not receive training, will find a job. That logic is not correct, so that measure simply does not go through.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u56	Mr Verherstraeten, just a moment, the Minister for Employment is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u57	Mrs Kitir, I thought you might point that out again. In itself, I have no problem with that. The only thing I have a problem with is the next contradiction. On 7 December 2011, the Minister of Work in the previous government, of which we were also a member, a minister who did important work, stated that: I hope I will not have to repeat this later: "People who do everything in their power to stand on their own feet will be supported and supervised as soon as they enter the labour market. However, those who do not make sufficient efforts will be placed on their responsibilities. Degressivity of benefits will be accelerated." Well, then we also accelerated the degressivity, but without resorting to training and activation, which we do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u58	Are you blaming us for the fact that we think they should receive benefits and not make any efforts to do so? What are you saying? If one loses one's job, one is indeed entitled to a benefit, but that does not mean that one should do nothing. One must actively look for work and do not do so, then one is suspended. That was the deal we made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u59	This is about accelerated degressivity, not the suspension.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u60	That you constantly refer to the previous government and do not answer in what way you want to help the people who are looking for a job today, does not mean anything more or nothing less than that you realize that your deal will not work and will push people into poverty. You have no other arguments. You have just let yourself roll again; I have already told you that, and I will continue to tell you that. I'll keep knocking on that nail, hoping you'll wake up and not implement that measure. The accelerated degressivity will not help jobseekers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u61	Mr Kitir, I think you misunderstood the Minister for Labour. There was just a comparison made. The measure we took during the previous legislature was a budgetary measure and was not linked to measures taken by the regions for additional training. We have an agreement with the Regions about our measure. We provide for degressivity, but at the same time they provide for additional training. I can understand that you would like to scare people for political and strategic reasons, but then you ignore the agreement that was reached in the government last summer. You are ignoring the budget neutrality that was agreed. We shall also be watching. You ignore the fact that the degressivity is not planned for job seekers in a third period. You are forgetting that in the current regulations too, rightly, older unemployed people and also people with a long career are spared. You ignore our agreement that, even if we increase the benefit in the first period, the difference between work and non-work remains sufficiently large. If we want to do that, we cannot raise benefits phenomenally in the first period. If we cannot phenomenally increase the benefits for the first period, then we cannot phenomenally reduce them in the second period. By the way, what else have we done about unemployment benefits for this legislature? Compare the figures from the beginning of the legislature with the end of the legislature and you will find that unemployment benefits have increased by 10% compared to the beginning of the legislature. We are actually amply compensating for the measures that are in the pipeline.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u62	The measures taken by the previous government were not purely budgetary. Many additional efforts have been made, for example the possibility of placements for young people, a project in which the Brussels-Capital Region has been brilliantly involved and in which Flanders did not want to participate. There are also a lot of target discounts given. Basically, the employer had to pay almost no RSZ and taxes for those who were long-term unemployed and went back to work. To say that the measure was only budgetary, I find it unfair. Finally, the number of people who started training in Flanders in 2018 is significantly lower than the number of people that started in 2017, even though there are more long-term unemployed. Mr Peeters, I suggest that when you negotiate with the Regions, you try to agree very specific objectives and figures. The government declaration is full of declarations of commitment, but it does not contain any commitment to results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u63	Mrs De Coninck, I have here the table that was adopted at the time. I read the following figures under the heading on unemployment and structural measures, including the monitoring of availability, impact, incentive and degressivity: in 2012 it will be 116 million, in 2013 it will be 204 million and in 2014 it will be 332 million. That was agreed here. I'm taking all the ideas to come up with a good arrangement. We will be able to discuss them extensively here in November. Once again, I understand some of the concerns, but it would be good to wait until we come up with a concrete proposal on the basis of which we will have the debate. Mr Verherstraeten warned that you should not kill people, while there is no concrete proposal on the table. It's been agreed in the government that that's gonna happen in November.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u64	Mr Peeters, many of your fellow Members, I realise that you are not doing so, saying that it is all the sossen's fault and arguing that we would never have accepted our responsibility. You have now read out a number of things which show that we have taken responsibility, including for monitoring availability, which was one of the so-called budgetary measures. So you have to be honest. You can say that we have taken responsibility. You can look at my entire career, I've always worked on a shared responsibility, for the individual, for the government and for the political world. Everyone has to do their part, very clearly. At the same time, we must help people to emancipate and become stronger; we must not just sanction them and feel very good about them. Make sure that everyone takes responsibility and that you achieve results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to raise another point, a yard as former Prime Minister Verhofstadt called it. There is still work to be done on pensions. Following the example of most European countries, we have raised the retirement age, to a lesser extent and less quickly than in our neighbouring countries. To a lesser extent and less quickly than our neighbouring countries, but at the same time we agreed to take account of those who engage in a heavy occupation. The opinions on this matter are divided, in the Wetstraat and also in the village street, where we all walk around more often over the last few days. This is also one of the reasons why the agreement is very sensitive in the public sector. However, we demand respect for the agreement reached by the Minister for Pensions with the social partners. Those who read it well and study it realize that it goes much further than some make it appear. Prime Minister, yesterday you asked for maximum parallelism between the private sector and the public sector. That is a legitimate concern. For us, this means, for example, that a nurse or a private security officer deserves equal treatment with her or his colleague in the government. I am aware that the agreement on the heavy professions in the private sector is even more difficult than that for the public sector, but it is also difficult. I call on the social partners to step up their efforts and to stick out more than they have done so far. Giving a divided opinion to the government is all too easy. Prime Minister and Minister for Pensions, I would ask you, if necessary, to mediate so that an agreement can be reached there too. If the government wants to increase the retirement age and settle for those who have a heavy job, we are obliged to do so in the light of the agreements we have made, then that implies respect for acquired rights and fair transitional measures. The banner at the finish of a course is not suspended in the last straight line either. Colleagues, I am skipping some of the issues because they have already been discussed this morning, including by the Prime Minister. Another point where the work is not finished is the supply of energy. I will break down an open door when I say here on the floor that our people and entrepreneurs were concerned by the doubts about energy supplies. The Prime Minister has rightly said that energy supply is an absolute priority. We could conclude from his answer that he will do everything in his power to ensure that this is resolved this winter. However, there is also a need for a solution for the coming years. In the coming winter, too, the lamp should be lit. This requires structural measures, in cooperation with all stakeholders and with respect for climate agreements. People are more and more awake from healthy air, they are more and more awake from a sustainable climate. Although this is mainly a regional matter, the federal government can also step up its efforts. This can be done, among other things, by accelerating the phase-out of SNCB's diesel trains. This can be done by increasing the greening of the federal government's fleet of vehicles, such as police and defence vehicles. I am also thinking of climate-neutral government buildings. Here, the investment pact can accelerate. We were right to talk about the price of electricity this morning. For those of you who were gone for a while, I repeat our approach. Firstly, we support the Prime Minister's commitments in his struggle with ENGIE. Secondly, energy supply is important for businesses and families. She is certainly important to those families who are in a precarious situation. It is not possible for the government to have more revenue due to price increases in the market. They must be returned to the consumer, first and foremost to those consumers who need them most. Mr De Roover noted that this was a topical debate rather than a debate on the State of the Union. He then referred to the problem of nuclear liabilities and what we read in some newspapers this morning. Colleagues, there has been a regulatory framework on this since 2003. The current government had and has the ambition to strengthen and strengthen that regulatory framework. The relevant texts shall be forwarded to the Council of State. The Minister responsible has been instructed to strengthen them further where necessary and where possible. It is quite clear to our group. On the environment, nuclear or not, the polluter pays. The energy producer of our nuclear power stations must know that we cannot accept that this will be done at the expense of the taxpayer and at the expense of future generations. Whatever needs to be done must be done. If there is to be a deeper recovery, that will happen. That'll cost more. That will have to be done by the energy producer. To this end, before the end of the present legislature, we must submit the legal framework to the Chamber. That's essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u66	Mr President, Mr Verherstraeten, I am glad that you are aware of this and that you have the courage to take a clear position on this point. After all, this is a matter that must be dealt with by the majority of the parties and by the opposition. After all, it is about thousands and thousands of years. I really hope that the deadline you set will be met. I am also looking at the minister who has missed the deadline in other crucial cases in the past. After all, the deadline you set is the right one. The regulatory framework should be established during the current legislative period. We have been discussing nuclear passive legislation for ten years. We know that Electrabel is looking for solutions, acquisitions and loopholes. So I fully support you in that dossier. The sooner Belgian policy gives clear wine, the better.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing to add. I'm rounding up. Prime Minister, when you took office, commentators described your government as a kamikaze government that would not have longevity. Despite the pessimistic predictions, I note that your government is entering its fifth year. You have focused on economic growth with social progress. Your government has worked on this and it has produced results. The country's better off than it was four years ago. The work isn't finished yet. This shouldn't be a government of lapses. You assured us yesterday that you will not rest on your laurels. That is why we will give you the confidence so that you can continue your reform work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u68	Mr Verherstraeten, the last part of your speech suited you very well. You said: "Everyone predicted a kamikaze government, but it still exists." That's right. It is perhaps also the most important merit of this government. It is also true that you have played a very important role in maintaining this government. CD&V has shown the necessary flexibility for four years. I noticed that you explicitly said that it should not be a government of winding-up, but in the series of yards you did not mention ARCO, while the party chairman of the provisional majority party said that this matter will not be resolved before 2019. Is ARCO still on the agenda for you? Should a decision be taken before 2019? Is it still one of the pending dossiers for which you and others want a solution during this term of office?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u69	Perhaps you are a little tired, Mr Calvo, which I can understand, but you will certainly have the opportunity to reread the report on our work. I have just given a clear answer to your question. The question is the same, and the government's answer remains the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u70	Mr Calvo, I had, of course, the intention to say something about this. I had included a passage on this in my preparation, but precisely because of the Prime Minister's answer to a question from you this afternoon, I dropped it. However, let me be quite clear: I agree with what the Prime Minister said. I agree even more with what he said about this in the Finance Committee in the summer. He talked about Belfius and ARCO. He also made it quite explicit, among other things, that a solution for ARCO would be a very good thing for Belfius and that the privatisation of Belfius would bring added value. A solution for ARCO is an added value for Belfius. An added value for Belfius is an added value for the Belgian taxpayer. A solution for ARCO is a win-win situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u71	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, here, ladies and gentlemen, I am the fifth speaker in this debate, in which a great deal has already been said. We are approaching the hour when everyone starts intuitively craveing the end of the debate. So I will not repeat myself. A number of arguments have been developed this morning. I would like to say in advance to those Members who wish to interview me about various yards that I will confine myself to the budget, the economic and social balance of the government and the labour deal. First of all, I would like to say a word about the different ways in which budgets can be drawn up, and I will share with you my experience over the last 25 years. It was a constant in our country that the drawing-up of a budget always included a mix of measures. I note, quite objectively, that in our country, at some point, the government's seizure has increased to far above 50%, in a silent manner and with the political responsibility of many fellow Members in this hemisphere. As I said in a previous debate, a government seizure of more than 50% means that the degree of collectivization of a society takes such a proportion that one can say: that is the way to communism. I'm not exaggerating. More than 50% of the resources, of the income of people and businesses, to subsequently distribute that money as a government, is too far-reaching. It should also be noted that this also affects the economy, the activity of a country. Again, people still have to have a desire to work, companies still have to feel like doing business. I remember from the past a period when we had a tax freeze. In doing so, we worked exclusively on the expenditure side of the budget and resisted the temptation to find a mix of fiscal measures, because every time we got back on the bad road where public revenue was increased. Your government, Prime Minister, is one of the first governments I know, with the exception of capital tax and withholding tax, which makes and renovates exercise year after year, but only on the expenditure side. That is also apparent from the figures. I will not mention many figures, but when I mention a figure, it comes from the Planning Bureau or the National Bank. For the first time, government seizures in our country fall from 55% in 2014 to 52%. If interest is paid there, the government debt will fall from 52% in 2014 to 49.8 % in 2019. This is therefore a reduction of 2.1 % of GDP, a reduction of almost 10 billion. So I say without a doubt that we must continue along this road. This government is working for the first time in 25 years to reduce the public debt. There is a second question that we have often heard in the debate, namely where people's money has gone. In essence, we have done two things with this. In the first instance, we have used the money to improve the budget and the budget has actually improved. At the start of the government I will repeat the figure again The nominal balance was about 3 %. For 2019, we are expected to be below 1%. In other words, a third of the road is still to go, two thirds have already been completed. Not only am I saying that; it is evident from all the reports. We can have long discussions about this, but the budget is certainly on the right track, although I admit that we are not quite there yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u72	Mr Dewael, you have focused on the debate, so you may not have seen the IMF report passed today. You say that all the reports state that a large part of the road has been covered. Well, today and in line with the Plan Office's report, the IMF says it expects a deficit of 1.8 percent. That report came in today. I would like to say the following, and I will listen to your speech with great attention. If we start from the IMF's findings, we can see that the path taken is almost complete in terms of the fall in interest charges. I do not think that the whole story that you have managed quite well in terms of the budget, your self-chosen major, is making any sense. It is easier for the government to use other figures, but it is quite difficult for the budget to do so. You know it and it may be part of your reply, but I am less fascinated by it: for us this was not the project of this government, it was for you. If one looks at the result today, it is quite poor. That is perhaps also why the Prime Minister said very little about this yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u73	If you follow the rest of the reasoning with me, I will come to that. Making a budget is a little more than accounting. A budget as a policy instrument should also be a certain voluntarism. I'm still talking about the activation of people, the fact that our country has a far too low level of effectiveness. One is inextricably linked to another. I was telling you what happened to the money. Part of the budget was made. Let's see how far the government gets next year. Of course, we will also give part of the money back to the people and businesses in the 2019 budget. I would also like to know your opinion on this, Mr Calvo. Mr Verherstraeten just said that there was actually no tax shift, but a tax cut. Moreover, I do not believe that a tax shift automatically generates a lot of economic benefits. In my opinion, only tax cuts can lead to job creation and encourage start-ups to undertake. We have reduced 5.5 billion in taxes to increase people's purchasing power. I do not need to elaborate on all percentages, but the 30 % disc has been deleted and next year a first step will be taken to remove the 45% rate. Again, for 65% of employees, the net wage increases by more than EUR 100 per month. Mr Calvo, you have just interviewed Mr Verherstraeten about the choices that have been made. The choice of this government was very clear to support the low wages most. That means an extra thirteenth month's wage. This means that according to the Federal Planning Office, the purchasing power of families will increase by 1.8 % and next year by 1.9 %. So 5.5 billion for the people and 4 billion in reductions for the companies. I would remind you, Minister of Finance, that the social rate of patronage is falling from 32% to 25%. Labour is getting cheaper. Jobs are being created. Small companies that recruit for the first time will never even have to pay patronial contributions for the first recruitment. And so I can quote examples. From this year onwards, SMEs will pay only 20% corporate tax on their first share of 100 000 euros. Firstly, the budget has improved considerably. Secondly, for the first time in twenty-five years, the public debt has really been reduced. Thirdly, taxes have been substantially reduced. That is the result of this government's choices. And if there were any criticism from European bodies, for example the European Commission, we would have to take it seriously. What I cannot accept is that in a previous legislature the criticism was often laughed away. I remember the question 'who does Olli Rehn know?' He was the commissioner responsible for the budget. At that time, the criticism was irrelevant, not valuable. Today we should take them. Well, that criticism must always be taken seriously and one must not change one's position according to whether one is in the majority or in the opposition. I would like to comment on the budget. Belgium and the federal level are the only contactable body for Europe. It's the only entity that's interpellable. There are the federal level, social security, the regions and the cities. Of every 100 euros we collect federally, about 19 euros goes to social security, about 11 euros to debt repayment, about 22 euros to departments and 48 euros, almost half to the Regions and the Communities. If we are discussing a budget here and we are talking about the policy choices that we can make here, then we are actually talking about social security and the departments. We are not going to make the accounts of the Regions and the Communities, but I note that, because of the dynamics of the Finance Act, the budgetary work is much easier there than in the federal government. I believe, Prime Minister, that we have chosen the right path to achieve short- and long-term economic growth. There must be a second ambiguity of the heart. I sometimes hear you say, also in opposition banks, that other countries of the European Union have a stronger growth than Belgium. I refer, for example, to Spain, Finland and the Netherlands. This is true for a piece, but one has to tell the whole story. These countries are coming from far beyond because the crisis in those countries has struck much stronger than in our country. They have a certain excess capacity. One has to know what one really wants. Either there is constant growth and one can say that the consequences of the banking crisis have been well endured. However, we are not going to compare ourselves with countries such as Spain, Greece and Portugal, where they have been beaten from 6% to 9%, and then say that these countries are now growing a little faster than we are. It should still be wrong. On the other hand, it is not always possible to present the economic results of Germany, the Netherlands and the Scandinavian countries when the recipes of these countries are being miswashed at the same time. It's one or the other. As you know, my group wanted to go further in a number of reforms. Those who argue that the Scandinavian model is working so well must bear in mind that the retirement age in those countries has been drastically increased and that there have been far more fundamental reforms in labour market policy in those countries than in our country. However, all these reforms are wronged by the left. I repeat: it is one or the other. I want to make it even more concrete. In 2009, at the height of the banking crisis, our economy shrunk by about 2.3 %, while in the Netherlands it was 3.7 %, in Spain 3.6 % and in Finland 8.3 %. We have never experienced any real negative growth in our country in all these years. I would like to give another figure to illustrate the situation we are coming to and where we are going, in particular by making a welfare comparison from the beginning of 2008 to today. In our country, prosperity has increased by 9.5% over that period. Although we are no longer thinking about it, prosperity in our country has increased by almost 10% since the start of the banking crisis. In the last ten years, therefore, the Belgian economy has actually grown stronger than in the euro area, stronger than the French economy. In our country, the economy grew as strongly as in the Netherlands. Germany, being misguided and denounced by some this morning, is doing better than here, because there was a little higher growth. In Germany, however, this is about mini-jobs, not full-time employment. I have listed these figures to indicate that comparisons with other countries or with the euro area should take a longer path into account. I have never denounced the measures taken by the previous government; others perhaps have. Allow me, for example, to comment on the degressivity of unemployment benefits, to which Mrs Kitir, who is not present at the moment, seems to be targeting. Now, the first steps towards a system of digressive unemployment benefits have been taken under the Di Rupo Government. With what I am referring to, I may be pushing some opposition members all the way up, but I have seen that, in order to improve the competitiveness of companies, measures were taken on energy VAT, which was said unanimously that they were not good measures, but that they could improve our country's battered competitiveness. I never denied that. Today, however, the left side has apparently turned it into a parade. During the previous legislature, this was a disguised measure of competitiveness. I can go on like this. The waiting allowance for young people is another measure on which Mr Di Rupo is now extremely ashamed. At the time, however, we decided to take this measure because it was part of the recovery of our country. But don't ever deny what you have ever worshipped. I therefore agree with Mr Verherstraeten on this point. There is a great deal of continuity in policy. I come to my third point, particularly job creation. That is what this is all about. I do not want to get tired of playing the game about whether the jobs have been created by the government or by the economic situation. It is important that people work and companies effectively create jobs. They are only figures, but today 4.8 million people are at work, a historic highlight. There are 140 000 unemployed less today than in 2014. Twenty-two thousand additional jobs have been created. It is important to note that some 152 000 jobs have been created in the private sector. Colleagues, that's important. This means that, when space and oxygen are given to enterprises, they actually do something with it. It is often suggested that these are blank cheques and gifts for employers. However, when we ask ourselves whether they have kept their word and effectively created jobs, the answer is undoubtedly affirmative. I'm tired of the criticism that it's about inferior mini-jobs too. Almost half are full-time jobs and almost three quarters of these jobs are at least a two-thirds relationship. I note by the way that there are also people who choose these jobs. We should not let mordicus people work in a full-time job. Often these are choices people make in accordance with their families. During the last ten years, employment in our country has increased by 7.9 %. In the euro area, the Netherlands and France it was 6.1 %, 4.5 % and 3.7 % respectively. It is again Germany that we have to let go by 10%. Is this only due to the economic situation? No. I would like to emphasise one merit of your government, and that is the amendment of the 1996 law on the competitiveness of enterprises. It was in the scaffolding in the previous legislature, but it was not possible to push it through. It is a very important piece of legislation, which not only restores competitiveness, but also introduces mechanisms that automatically correct competitiveness when it derails. And, of course, Minister for Labour, there is the renewal of our labour law. May I refer to the flexi jobs, which make it possible for people who work four fifths or pensioners to earn something extra, for example in the catering industry? For flexi jobs gross is equal to net. We see that this instrument is increasingly being used. Then I come to the Belgian paradox. What is this Belgian paradox today? If the budget is on track, if we give money back to people and companies... By the way, is there anyone in this hemisphere who has argued for the return of the tax shift? I didn't hear anyone. I would like to see that question answered. Is there anyone who would like to see the benefits of the tax shift reduced on 1 January next year in order to make an additional effort on the budget? I didn't hear anyone argue for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u74	Mr Calvo has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u75	Mr Calvo will say that he is against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u76	Mr Dewael, you know the different views of colleagues. There is no one in this hemisphere who has advocated in recent years that the legacy of years of liberalism should be preserved. I have not heard anyone say that the towering burdens on labour must remain. If you ask if someone is a candidate for the tax shift, in order to reduce the burden on labour, then no one will raise their hand, but if your question is whether there are groups that want to make the reduction even better and bring it more in line with last month's Plan Bureau analysis, and therefore want to create more jobs with less money, I say yes. If you would ask if there are any groups in this Chamber that want to reduce the burden on labour even more and, for example, to tax pollution a little more, where we are dangling at the bottom of the ladder in Europe, I say yes. If you would ask if there are any groups that want to tax people who are getting rich with the wealth they already have, so that those burdens on labour can be reduced even further, I say yes. You should know that, too. There is no one who says that we should keep those burdens on labour so high. It is strange that Liberals only want to work on this legislative term. But for the fact that our fiscal system needs to be different and better, you will find a strong supporter of our group in this hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u77	You do not use your interruption to indicate, but I know what you are going to answer, how you are going to finance it. If you think that we should have done more for the budget, if you think that the achievement of the tax shift is an acquis, and if you say that you would like to go one step further, then you should explain to me and to the Minister of Finance how you intend to finance it. Please do not come down again with a rich tax or a capital tax, which has proved impossible to work in all other countries. In France, it has been introduced under President Hollande's policy and it has been removed again, because it has been seen that it does not work at all. I say it again, in terms of capital tax, I am actually concerned, because I see that one of the government's decisions is to reach 30% withholding tax. Trop is too much, enough is enough, in that respect there is no room anymore. If I understand correctly, you want to create a budget without opening up a game of new taxation at the end of the budget round, you want results quickly in terms of the budget and you want to reduce some additional burdens. I'm going to listen to you with interest, because if you have that recipe, I'll take it from here. But you don't. There is criticism on the left of everything. It is said that not enough jobs have been created, that there is not enough economic growth and so on. But you are still guilty of the answer you yourself have to all these problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u78	Mr Dewael, it is strange that, during the fourth State of the Union of this government, I now have to explain again what my group is about these basic principles. I have just taken the floor on the budget, not because our group insists that this budget should be balanced at all costs, but to say that your budget has been misplaced and that in that respect the palmares of this government, a government that was going to put things in order, are quite poor. About the tax shift, I said we'd focus it more. We would focus them more on low and middle incomes. This could also contribute to economic development, while we are dangling with your government at the bottom of the ladder in Europe at the moment. We would indeed finance the tax shift in a different way. Not through savings on social expenditure, not through raising invoices, but through other revenues, namely capital income and taxes on environmental pollution. In fact, we are making a different choice for the financing of the tax shift. This is the wealth of the debate. You say that you will do so through social security and VAT. We say: we would do that through taxes on pollution, because we do not like pollution. We want to discourage pollution. And speculation, wealth that creates new wealth, is less important to our real economy than employment. That's the choice we'd make.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u79	Don't get ahead of your speech in a moment. I should have only heard you refer to the International Monetary Fund at the beginning of my speech. The IMF will indeed make a number of recommendations. I am curious to see how far you will go in these recommendations from the International Monetary Fund. The International Monetary Fund will probably say that the labour deal does not go far enough. The IMF is in favour of reducing unemployment benefits over time. Are you for or against that? You're against it. In any case, you must now confess colour for each of those parts, because there is no free shaving. Mr Prime Minister, let us talk about the work deal and the choices made by the government in the Summer Agreement. The implementation of that work deal is, of course, essential for achieving the expected results for the 2019 budget. One is inextricably linked to another. If nothing happens in terms of activation and boosting our labour market, the government's budgetary results will be compromised. So I have no problem with the degressivity. I am waiting impatiently for the proposal to be put on the table. This seems particularly important to me. I also have no problem with the fact that the retirement age for bridge pension is increased once and for all to 60 years in the case of restructuring. I am not only in favour of penalisation, I am also in favour of encouragement, but I am in favour of it. The companies, I understand, will be encouraged to invest more in their employees' skills. The same applies to workers who can be encouraged fiscally and parafiscally when they invest part of their retirement allowance in training. Nor do I have any problem with a different and more favourable arrangement for overtime when the problem is addressed. Your work deal therefore contains a mix of measures that absolutely must be implemented, with a competent speed. I believe that job creation will have repercussions in a favourable way on your budget, of course. The fact that you are discussing this with the social partners is normal in our country, but if, after a few weeks or months, it turns out that there is no progress, then you should no longer be a spectator. There is still such a thing as the primacy of politics. It is then the role of the government to implement these measures effectively. I shall return to the budget, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. In our country, 69 percent of the population aged between 20 and 64 is currently working. This is an improvement compared to the start of the legislature. There is only one way, a healthy way, by the way, to get a budget in balance, namely by getting more people to work. Calculations show that, with an employment rate of 77%, the budget would be in order, without having to be deeply cut into, among other things, all kinds of social services. If we could close the gap with countries such as those in my opinion, these are the guide countries of the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark, then you would no longer have a budgetary problem at the time. These are countries with an employment rate of 77% and a higher retirement age than our country. Perhaps we should visit these countries again, because then we would find it quite normal to accept that there is no job security but employment security. There is also, as the government envisages, an effective increase in unemployment benefits after a company has been closed down, but after that there are many more obligations. It's called flexicurity. It is the Danish and Norwegian model. There is no reason to believe that in our country we would not be able to achieve an activity rate of around and with those figures. So that turn of events has been put in place. That's the road we need to follow. The implementation of the work deal is high on the political agenda. Prime Minister, this government has effectively reformed and saved. As far as we are concerned, we could have gone even further, but it is a coalition government and so we always choose a certain compromise. I would like to reiterate that a reduction in unemployment benefit over time exists in many European countries and does not really have to be a social horror story. Our country stands well for it, better than in 2014. You have made a significant change in the socio-economic field. You have done the same in the field of safety. I was pleasantly surprised when yesterday the government announced that it would continue to work on the security culture that we now know effectively in our country. In doing so, it will further implement the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. For my group, it is clear that the remaining months of this legislature must not be lost. There's still a lot of work on the table for all government members. There is no room or time for complacency. The energy supply, the approach to transmigration, the heavy professions and investment in Defence are just a few yards I mention. You will have the confidence of my group to deal with these problems. As a former President of the Chamber, Mr Achiel Van Acker, once said, "No adventures, just drive on."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u80	Prime Minister, yesterday you stood here as the face of the government, with the same story as in previous years, with the same bluff as in previous years, with the same lukewarm reception as in previous years. Let us be clear about this. Four years ago, you started a unique project: a right-wing government with no social face. All the great promises had to be dropped quickly. There was only your hard right-hand policy left. Your government was able to distract people from summer agreements that turned out to be winter agreements, but it was not without consequences. Everyone feels the consequences of your grotesque communication and your saltless compromises. Prime Minister, your crew is talking about cleaning up people. Terms like "fuck off" are elevated to policy and ordinary people like you and I are labeled as "choice cattle." For a long time, you seemed to be detached from that strong communication style, but four years later, you were also infected. Trumptal as fake news is now coming out of your mouth, if you don't like commenting on your policy. Your promises were very great when you began. That was right, because there was a lot of potential: the economy was in the elevator, the interest rate was historically low. Did you keep your promises? The government would put things in order; the government would show how to do it; the government promised a budget balance in 2018. Today it is 2018 and we can take stock. Is the budget balanced? Has the promise been fulfilled? Of course not. Like all the government's great statements, it turned out to be more air than content. After all the cutting, saving and intervention there is still a budget deficit of 3.2 billion. Worse still, you're transferring the misery to the next government. The Planning Agency predicted last month that another billion will be added. Not millions, but billions of euros too short, that's the account you're leaving behind, a deficit of 8 billion. Prime Minister, you may call out whatever you want, you may blame everyone, but you are the one who started a tax shift without a clear plan. You have a right-wing policy, because it is possible, not because it gives people something. It's just a cost. It costs a billion-dollar hole, while people's bills have risen. Colleagues, the government is always warned, but she doesn't listen to anyone. She does not listen to the people who have to bear the new burdens. She doesn't listen to the Court of Auditors. She doesn't listen to the National Bank. She does not listen to the Planning Bureau, not even to the chairman of the Finance Commission. How could it be different? A prime minister who puts facts away as fake news, just lives on his own good news show. This is not without consequences, because it means that the people who bear the burdens will not be heard. This means that everyone bears the consequences of policy, except for the rich. Colleagues, we keep seeing the same pattern. Again and again, the same people are paying for the reduction of costs. Over and over again, it's the same people who get out of the dance. Check it out. Whose electricity bill has been raised? Whose water bill has been raised? Whose tank bill keeps running? People's invoices keep rising, because your account is not covered, because you just don't let everyone pay along. The government's only got strength if she comes for the money. The invoicing increases were decided with a fingernip, but an effort of the great abilities, ho but. Every summer it was a fight, no result. The caiman tax is worth 5 million instead of the 500 million promised. The value added tax was not introduced. The speculative tax has been abolished once again. The impact tax has no effect. Last summer there was nothing at all; there was no quarrel, not even an attempt. Why was that? Was it because the social face might have made it? No, CD&V simply gave up. The party has tried and lost. The social face of the government has failed and has always been rolled with ARCO as a coin. That one summer, Kris Peeters walked away from the negotiating table because he wanted the added value tax. What lured him back? That was the ARCO file. The result of this show is no added value tax and no security for ARCO savers. Also in the following summer, the objections of CD&V were quickly removed, with ARCO as a card coin, while also the savers were not given any certainty. In return, there was the untaxed extra income, a system that makes it even harder for people who are already struggling in the labour market today, because jobs that are meant for them are now being reserved for those who already have a job. Last summer it was another prize. ARCO was back on the scale. In return, unemployment benefits become more degressive and job seekers fall more quickly back on the lowest benefits, but the ARCO saver still does not get any security. What can one be proud of if one sells his skin three times to get nothing in return? With such a social face, we do not even need right-wing parties to pursue a tough policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u81	Mr President, I listened quietly to Mrs Kitir. Mrs Kitir, you warn us that we need to listen more to the reports of, among other things, the National Bank and the Federal Planning Office. You claim that we are impoverished by many measures, some of which are by the hand of other governments. You're asking us to study plans from the Federal Planning Office. Well, the Federal Planning Office says that the real purchasing power of families is increasing. I quote the figures: in 2016 almost a full percent above inflation, in 2017 1.3 %, in 2018 1.8 %, in 2019 almost 2 %, namely 1.9 %. If you throw the whole policy on taxation into the wastebasket, then you ignore reality. This morning and this afternoon, we discussed enough the question of how social the tax shift was. While the neighbouring countries abolished the withholding tax, we brought it to 30%. You're ignoring that. While other countries reduced bank charges, we doubled the ceiling. You're ignoring that. You say the securities tax has no effect. You ask us to read reports from the Federal Planning Office and the National Bank. I invite you to do that yourself. Then you will see that they give figures of EUR 180 million in this respect in relation to the budget. You ignore the fact that there has indeed been an added value tax for companies. Mr Kitir, you are ignoring reality. At the same time, we have increased social benefits. We are the social face of the government, sometimes to the furthest of our coalition partners. Mr Dewael has just pointed out that his group wanted to take far more far-reaching measures on unemployment. Well, we could not, and we will continue to act in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u82	Mr Verherstraeten, as an argument, you have simply repeated a piece of your speech. I have listed for you the areas in which you have all failed to take action, and I will explain to you in the rest of my speech the areas in which you could have been the social face, but not the social face. I can see how that hurts. Colleagues, have any jobs been added? Yeah, absolutely. But has the labour market improved? No. Prime Minister, your enthusiasm for these extra jobs is reminiscent of a good news show. That's why I'm giving you some facts instead of fake news. In terms of effectiveness, our country in Europe fell from 20th to 24th place. Our country could have had 50 000 more jobs if we had followed the average growth of jobs in the euro area. Our country still has the same number of families without an income from work. So, Prime Minister, before you knock yourself back on your chest, it might be a good idea to look at the consequences for people who want to work. There are people who want to contribute, but who no longer find a place in the labour market that you have created. Of course you know those numbers, you realize you're on quicksand. The numbers don't lie. That's why you proposed a new deal last summer. You were finally going to solve the problems, but did you? No. Your work deal turns out to be nothing less than a poverty deal. After all, you will not activate the job seekers, but you will impoverish them. You're not increasing, but you're reducing benefits. Today, half the jobseekers are already at risk of poverty, but what are you doing? You're beating yourself on the chest. You must imagine that you have to live with EUR 1 050. To begin with, the cost of the rent goes off and then the cost of energy, with all those increased invoices. Then tell me honestly, would the people make a living with that amount? Colleagues, even for those who do have a good job, the government is not ready. The workload is growing and the number of burn-outs peaks. More and more people fear for their jobs. And what did the majority do? The Workable Work Act provides even more overtime and requires even more flexibility and longer work, but does not help workers to keep up the work. The disabled were punished. Seventy percent got his resignation without a cancellation fee. You call it a reintegration policy, I call it a discharge machine. Are these the jobs that should serve as a guarantee for social security and against poverty? Is this your solution? Is that how it works? Have you reduced poverty, strengthened social security? No, no, no. First of all, the people with the lowest incomes have become the biggest impact of the tax shift. They not only get the disadvantages, they also get nothing of the benefits. Sick people, pensioners and job seekers all went backwards. Not only the people themselves say that, but also the KU Leuven. Every month's loss, every month's loss of purchasing power. It's having an effect. If you look around, you will see the consequences of your own policies. There are almost 100 000 families with a payment plan for electricity. Almost 160 000 people are knocking at the food banks. Almost 350 000 people are trapped in the debt industry. That is the harsh reality. Did you do anything about that? You'd raise benefits above the poverty line. That was a promise from this government. However, I note that you saved half a billion dollars on the welfare envelope. Add to that the index jump and it is seen that 3.5 billion has been saved on benefits. If you then promise to spend 80 million on the lowest benefits and even then manage to save 40 million, then you are not doing well. Is that your policy? This time too, you have surpassed yourself again. For next year, nothing extra is even planned to raise the benefits. Zero euros! Colleagues, our health care was also the victim of this government's pruning policy. All over the legislature there was a savings of 4 billion in health care. The patient received additional invoices and less tariff security. The drugs became more expensive, from antibiotics to nasal sprays, from specialists to supplements, all prices rose. Prime Minister, if you had looked, you would have seen the result. Almost a million Belgians postpone a visit to the doctor, afraid of the costs, afraid of the result. The cost of glasses, hearing aids and dental care is still far too high. It is therefore necessary to invest instead of saving money in health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u83	It can be said that this government has implemented reforms to work more cost-effectively in health care. That's something that should have happened a long time ago. We have invested more than 3.5 billion in health care. Indeed, some nasal sprays, the nasal mucosa of which breaks down, are no longer refunded, but what do we pay back? These are cancer treatments, immunological treatments that cure people, are less ill during their therapy and improve their quality of life. Those are the choices that policy must make. If we do not have the courage to do so, then we must say so. If you prefer to repay, as in the past, a nasal spray that harms people than medicines that can save their lives or improve their quality of life, that is your choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u84	Mr President, I would just like to point out that the Minister's policy has meant that the pharmaceutical sector has gone well over its budget for three years in a row, this time by 300 million, 300 million which has suddenly been reduced to 100 million in the final budget. I call that shifting the problems to another government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u85	Mr President, I know Mrs Jiroflée's reasoning, because that record has already been turned grey. It always forgets to add that the pharmaceutical sector is paying back the excess, as agreed in the future pact. So the pharmaceutical sector actually invests in innovation and brings it to the patients. That does have a price. We have brought expensive new medicines to the patients. The patient deserves the best treatment, although the price for it should be lower for me. To this end, we have set up international cooperation, particularly with regard to orphan medicinal products. I think this was a good way to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u86	The pharmaceutical sector pays back part of it, but not all of it. Indeed, there are a number of refunds for new innovative medicines. However, the bulk is not reimbursed. I would like to clarify that. I'll keep turning that gray-turned plate until she sees dark blue green if necessary. It is true that secret deals have been made with the pharmaceutical sector, which ensures that the budget for that sector is broken. The Minister knows that and she knows that something needs to be done about the famous Article 81. For now, however, nothing will happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u87	Briefly on Article 81, which was introduced into politics by my predecessor, for which I am grateful. She belongs to your family, Mrs Jiroflée. Or don't you remember? This article exists for ten years. It also exists in all our neighbouring countries. I invite you to find a new system. If that's a good system, I'll be the first to implement it. So I am asking for alternatives to Article 81. I know what will happen if there is no more Rule 81. After all, patients will no longer be given the innovative medication. We've paid back 25 drugs for orphan diseases. There was a huge backlog in that area. It was a sheer disgrace to our children with an orphan disease that those drugs weren't paid back. We did a catch-up there. I will continue to defend that this has been a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u88	The famous Rule 81 has indeed been introduced by Mrs Onkelinx, the minister's predecessor. This article was used for what it was intended to do, namely to put products on the market earlier. Meanwhile, 80% of the new products are placed on the market under that Article 81 and we do not understand the prices of those products. I call that no longer transparency, but abuse of a good measure introduced with the best of intentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u89	Mr President, those words give me the opportunity to move on to pensions, another victim of the current government's pruning policy. There is EUR 2 billion less in the pension budget than was budgeted at the start of the government. One saving followed another: the retirement age was increased, early retirement was made stricter, the pension bonus was abolished, the civil servants' pension was reduced and the equivalences reduced. The uncertainty about pensions has only increased and has even doubled according to the European barometer. What European country is doing to us in this respect? Mr Prime Minister, once again you refuse to listen to people, to specialists and to all investigations. You're ignoring them. People come out on the street in one last attempt to attract your attention. Sixty thousand people say they don't like it. Once again, they are ignored by you. The teacher has to work longer for less retirement. The nurse needs to work longer for less retirement. The police officer needs to work longer for less retirement. The cost to them, and you're knocking on the chest today. However, there was an alternative. You had a chance. The experts were also able to tell what had to be done, in particular to develop a basis with broad support. However, you have missed the opportunity. The result after four years of pension policy of the current government is not more security but less security and not more pension rights but less pension rights. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also seeing the effects of the current government's blinkers on energy policy. We are paying more than ever now and getting less in return. Families pay more, but don't know if the light will burn in the next winter. With the current government, it is always the same: pay, without knowing what one gets in return. Now you promise with great words that people will not pay for the cost of Electrabel. The same Prime Minister who first gave Electrabel money back, who preferred to raise our invoices, who proudly announced to keep the nuclear power plants open longer, now guarantees us free electricity from Germany. Who's gonna believe that? Now you're pointing to Electrabel. Now you're pointing the finger at that company as the big culprit. However, the current chaos is due to your government; it is your responsibility. The nuclear power plants are unreliable, but you decided to keep them open longer. That's how you stopped investments and alternatives. It was also your government that could not agree on the Energy Pact. Prime Minister, we must not allow people to suffer again. People have already paid. Because of the energy shortage, the price is at risk of rising again. However, we can do something about that. We can already reduce the VAT on electricity tomorrow. That's why I asked you last week if you were prepared to do so. Today, I'm gonna ask you again. We shall vote on this tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen. Tomorrow we will see who is for or against the reduction of VAT on electricity. Tomorrow we will see who will listen to people's concerns. Prime Minister, yesterday you again talked about an investment pact. Our group also wants investment, namely in renewable energy, in rail traffic, in health care and pensions and in people, but you have not invested in this in recent years. You have supported nuclear energy and saved billions on track and in health care and pensions. You saved four years on basic needs. Six months before the elections, you will come forward with an investment pact. First it was 30 billion, then 60, then 100, and now the counter is at 150 billion. Sorry, Prime Minister, but that's a cheap stunt to divert attention from your budget fiasco and from all your savings. However, there are also people you have invested in. Yet there are also people who have received gifts from you. Electrabel received a charge reduction of 1 billion. The pharmaceutical sector received over 400 million. The multinationals received 900 million because the government does not want to tackle tax avoidance in full. Fraudsters received amnesty and the millionaires gained 30 billion in the past four years. Next week you will announce an investment in new fighter aircraft: 15 billion for an American aircraft with hundreds of defects, 15 billion for new aircraft, while we know that the old ones are far from worn out and there are so many other needs. Prime Minister, yesterday you were right to pay tribute to our police and security personnel. Brussels, Liège, Zaventem, Maalbeek, in recent years our country has had to deal with traumas that we all feel today. Unfortunately, you also show the same pattern there. You quickly announced measures, many of which we also supported. I've said many times that safety is no color for me. For me safety is not a matter of left or right. We have therefore also worked on unanimous recommendations across party boundaries in the Committee of Inquiry. We found that people are doing hard work in the field, but that the security system, cooperation and flow of information should be improved. Colleagues, once again the government received recommendations. It's been quiet for too long. There is support in this Chamber for many measures, but this government is fighting ghosts and losing sight of its real task. It is now two and a half years after the attacks, but there are still thousands of policemen too short. The government wrote to the follow-up committee before the summer that this deficit, I quote, remains 'a permanent concern'. Now what? A concern, Prime Minister? You are not a spectator of your own policy. You can act. You can make a difference, but you don't listen to those people. On Friday, police forces are taking action again because they are full of the destruction of their statute. They demand respect. The flow of information still needs to be improved. The attack in Liège made that painfully clear. The investigation committee requested a crossroads database. He's still not here. The national airport's trade unions also made the alarm last week. But the government even goes against the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. Instead of in public hands, it gives security to Brussels Airport. There is still no structural consultation with the trade unions. And there's still no evacuation drill. Prime Minister, you do not give the people who are supposed to protect us the support they deserve. Your government has six months left. Once again, I would like to ask you to really get to work on the recommendations you have received. There's no time to lose. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. Calling loudly and looking away when it comes to putting people away as "the other" and labeling facts as "fake news" was always something that happened elsewhere. The British did it with their Brexit. Trump did it with his attacks on women and foreigners. The Italians did it with their attacks on Europe. Right-wing governments always use this same recipe. Now here, too. What do I establish after four years of right-wing government? Your government created an atmosphere of distrust. Your government pointed the finger at the people. Your government turned people against each other. Whether it was sick or jobseekers, you checked, stigmatized and punished. When it came to asylum and migration, about refugees and living together, this government continued to go further and further in a slippery direction. That's how people get turned against each other. This way more and more people don't feel welcome here anymore. Critical voices are denounced. Over the past few months, things have gone from bad to worse: judges are foreign world, NGOs are human smugglers, lawyers are activists, journalists are rats. Colleagues, that's enough. Stop it! Stop polarizing me. Stop being so intolerant. Stop divisive. That we-side story isn't gonna get us anywhere. Let us build bridges instead of walls. Look to the future, not the origins. Look at what binds us, not what divides us. Prime Minister, there was a great deal of protest and opposition to your policy of destruction, but you never wanted to listen. We have always offered alternatives, but you never wanted to listen. You asked for people's efforts and in return they did not get a budget in balance, no fair taxes and no better pensions. Mostly they got insecurities. Uncertainty about their pension. I don't know if the light's still on. Unsure they'll keep their job tomorrow. This was the government of the phasing-out, the dismantling of duties and the dismantling of trust. That makes me angry. And the worst part is that this right-wing majority wants to go even further. This dismantling policy is only the beginning. This attack on social dialogue is only a start for your government. We will continue to stand in the way and I will continue to speak with all those who are concerned, with all those who do not benefit from your policy, who do not know how to pay the following bills. Because the people in this country deserve better. Solidarity and tolerance seemed self-evident for a long time. The pendulum's been going the other way for the last few years. And fortunately, I still see enough people who want to turn the tide and fight for a warmer society. An alternative is possible. Therefore, Prime Minister, our group will not give you confidence tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u90	Mr Prime Minister, before I begin my reaction to your statement yesterday, I would like to ask you directly about information that has been circulating since this morning and that concerns, as you will have understood, a subject that concerns me very much, that of climate. Is it correct, Prime Minister, that Belgium, today, is not represented by a minister at the meeting of the European Council that decides on the mandate Europe will have or will give for COP24 in Katowice? Today is the key meeting to decide on the line that Europe will adopt in response to the IPCC report. Is it right that none of the Belgian ministers are present at this meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u91	I can answer right away. I do not have the information on the spot, I can ask for clarification, but to my knowledge, it is at this moment the Walloon Region which represents Belgium, since, with regard to energy issues, as you know, representation is rotating. To my knowledge, the Walloon Region is responsible for this. On the substance, on the other hand, I think I can point out that Belgium supports the classic position that we have always supported by also encouraging the Presidency's efforts to reach a compromise on the subjects on the agenda. For the perfect information, I will check if there is more accurate information coming from the Walloon Region on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u92	Thank you, Prime Minister. I would prefer to clarify this point in fact from the beginning of our exchange because, if this were to be confirmed, it would be an extremely serious political signal of disinterest in the head of the Walloon Region if that is what it is today. I want you to take the time to check this information so that you can answer me later in my speech, because I will return to it. For us, this meeting is fundamental in that it should enable Europe to respond to the challenges and challenges expressed by the IPCC in its report. A precise and comprehensive report that counts several dozen pages in the political summary and several hundred pages in the scientific contribution in relation to the central issue of climate change. As soon as you have the answer, Prime Minister, do not hesitate to interrupt me so that we can take stock of this aspect. I now turn to my speech. First of all, a little word to Mr. Clarinval and Mr. Miller to tell them that I will answer all their questions. No problem. Don't hesitate! I'll answer it. My starting point is October 8, 2018, yesterday at 03:00. Yesterday, the IPCC released the state-of-the-world report. The finding is serious. While the Paris Agreement provided for all countries to remain below 2°C and, to be precise, clearly below 2°C, for disruption, the current balance of commitments of all countries leads us to a global warming of more than 3.5°C, probably 4°C. The IPCC's call is clear. To stay on the right path, as decided in Paris, all countries must step up their own commitments. All sectors are concerned, not just the energy sector. Of course, the energy sector, Minister, it is not you who are going to say the opposite. There is also the mobility sector, the agriculture sector, the industry sector, the food sector, etc. All areas of federal government policy are potentially affected. But on October 8, 2018, twelve hours later, at 3:00 p.m., Prime Minister Charles Michel concluded his speech here at the State of Belgium: 38 pages but six lines on the issue of climate change! What a gap between these hundreds of scientific pages, these dozens of pages of political summary and the six lines. That's not even 1% of your total concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u93	Mr President, of course I cannot accept this completely misleading and erroneous interpretation unless Mr Nollet considers that the energy strategy has nothing to do with the climate. Mr Nollet, if you think that the energy strategy has nothing to do with climate, your interpretation is correct. But I have considered that there are five absolute priorities for the coming months, including the energy issue that is directly linked to the climate issue. Therefore, Mr. Nollet, the summary you have been trying to make since yesterday that I would not have addressed this issue is misleading and intellectually incorrect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u94	Prime Minister, I have explicitly cited energy policy as one of the dimensions that can be used to combat climate change, stating that it is not the only one. Agriculture, mobility, industry and all sectors of the federal government are affected by this problem. But the reflection of your interest, as part of your climate statement, is in total lag with the importance of the stakes! Moreover, it is also a reflection of inaction and, I dare say, of a regression of Belgium in this matter! A regression which is also encrypted. But yesterday, in the gallery, you aligned a series of statistics. I'm not going into this game! I leave this to others. On the other hand, I will highlight a figure which you have not mentioned and which is the dead end of all your policies: that of Belgium's CO2 emissions. I have read your text carefully; you have not spoken about it and I can understand it. Let us look at these figures: to comply with the Paris Agreement, Belgium would have to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by about 4 million tonnes of CO2 per year. What is Belgium doing? Since you were in power, since 2014, there has been a negative point of inflection in this area. Maybe you have the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u95	Let's be precise! You are right, in order to comply with the agreements, we would have to be able to deploy just over 4 million tonnes of CO2. And you know very well that on this subject, there is a division of powers between the federal authority and the federated entities. You know very well that the main instrument, at the federal level, is the investments made in offshore wind. What is being achieved, I mentioned: we will double the capacity in this respect and this puts us in a position to hope that we can meet these objectives as we have reformed the offshore support mechanisms. We didn't do it the way you did, Mr. Nollet, when you were in charge. You have caused a debt - the holding up of the century! - on the taxpayer's back by the photovoltaic bubble. On the contrary, we are meeting our commitments on renewables in the federal context through offshore wind. And we are ensuring that there are EUR 4 billion less that will be passed on to consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u96	"When the MR is in trouble, the MR always falls into the panel." It's obviously a little easy! Prime Minister, this is symptomatic, when I talk to you about greenhouse gas emissions and I tell you that it concerns all policies and not just energy policy, what is your reaction? You are reacting by saying that at the federal level it is energy policy that is concerned. No! If you knew a little about the mechanics of greenhouse gases in Belgium, you would know that what is problematic today, especially in our country, is not energy, it is mobility. When we look at the statistics since 2014, we find that what is exploding in Belgium is the greenhouse gases linked to the car and the absence of an alternative mobility policy. However, these issues are primarily the responsibility of the federal government. And you will not say that there is not, in this matter, a heavy negative balance which obviously affects the figure that I am going to quote from you and which you did not give yesterday in this rostrum. While Belgium must reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 4 million tonnes of CO2, each year, since you are in place, it has increased them. We've grown from 112 million to 115 million tons of CO2. I wish, Mr Miller, Mr Clarinval, that if the number I have just given is not correct, you would not hesitate to interrupt me immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u97	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u98	Thank you, Mr. Clarinval, for validating the figure I announced. But I would like to draw your attention to the seriousness of this figure. You deny the Paris Agreement. Looking at historical statistics, since 1990 Belgium has been reducing its greenhouse gases. Since 2014, the latter have been rising again. This is the outcome of your climate policy in this area. I still do not know if a minister was present at the meeting that took place earlier, but I know, in any case, that the figures exist and that neither Mr Clarinval nor Mr Miller nor anyone in your government, not even Minister Marghem, will dare to contradict these figures as I have put them here. Prime Minister, maybe you've had the information. Respect, don't worry!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u99	Mr President, I do fact-checking and ask for a second opinion on the subject! I'll call the KUL to check!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u100	I respect you. I still have a little time. I still have some elements to highlight in my reasoning. Beyond the humour that can be manifested here, information is extremely important. Was Belgium represented by a minister at that meeting or not? I'll come back later. Maybe you have the information? That makes you laugh. You can take it with humour, to a certain point, but at some point, you'll have to have the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u101	Indeed, we have done a double audit, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I, and we have the same information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u102	This is the information in question. Belgium was remarkably represented by our Deputy Permanent Representative to the European Union. I would still like you to see something, and you've probably already done it. I have asked for the verification of all the presences in the past as well. You will see that from time to time there is an important role to play in our permanent representation, and I am very pleased that we are very well represented by this permanent representation. For the rest, I asked where we were in rotation. It was up to the Walloon Region to be present. What I am told - but I would stress that we are going to check it again - is that Minister Di Antonio, who was due to go to Luxembourg, was not available. It is the Permanent Representation, which, as it happens from time to time, has ensured the representation, in order to arrive, it seems, at an agreement welcomed on the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u103	Mr President, I do not have the information, but I still specify factual information. He's not a climate minister. Then we'll check who, what and where. But I'd rather recall that fact here. It is a matter of competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u104	I did not at any time give the individual powers of one or the other minister! I share the information that comes from Luxembourg where the meeting is taking place and where our Deputy Permanent Representative represents Belgium. He simply received information that, for this Environment Council, Minister Di Antonio was not available. I'll check again. Otherwise, unless you wish to set up a commission of inquiry as usual, I will make a request. I see immediately the reflex of the specialists of the committee of inquiry go directly into the process! The Prime Minister announced that a fund was in place for fact-checking. It is obvious that we will already feed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u105	Mr President, after seven hours of debate, it is legitimate to have a little humour, a little mismatch, a little hindrance. I don't have a problem with that. However, I believe that the information given by Minister Reynders is fair and correct. It was the information I had but I preferred to have it checked officially. You understand my approach: in order to avoid having to use the federal government's budget, I preferred to speak directly to the person who had the answer. Behind this information, because this is the most important one, you will not prevent me from thinking that there is an unacceptable disinterest in Mr Di Antonio's case, if indeed he is the one who should represent it, in relation to the stakes and importance of this meeting. Of course, sometimes the minister had to be held back by other obligations, but this was not possible here. When it comes to taking a position at European level in the aftermath of the IPCC report, not considering it important to send a minister there is unacceptable! Of course, it is not in this House that we must develop the full scope of criticism, but I wanted, Prime Minister of the whole country, to convey this message to you so that you can also carry it in the preparatory meetings. It is not normal that Belgium, in the face of such an important meeting, should not be represented at a ministerial level! In fact, ten days ago, you were personally at the United Nations. Here I repeat an excerpt from your speech: "The stubbornness of some to deny the reality of climate change is of the same order as the stubbornness of those who, yesterday, denied that the Earth was round". Would I dare to paraphrase you today? The stubbornness of some in your government to continue to believe that climate policies can be pursued business as usual is of the same order as the stubbornness of those who, yesterday again, denied that a nuclear reactor could fail. And yet today, five out of seven reactors are shut down and six will be shut down in November.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u106	In your congratulations to me on the verification of a concrete fact, you mentioned someone who once said that "a nuclear reactor could never fail." Do you have such a quote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u107	I said, "Will I paraphrase you?" I will read again: "The stubbornness of some of your government to continue to believe that we can continue the climate policies Business as usual..." Who am I referring to?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u108	No! You mentioned the fact that someone would have said!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u109	"...is of the same order as the stubbornness of those who, yesterday again, denied that a reactor could fail."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u110	Who said that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u111	Mr Nollet, that's serious what you're saying!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u112	It's serious. It's a quote. This must be possible to verify. There must be a date, a day, an hour...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u113	Prime Minister, I propose that you re-read the 679 questions I asked the Minister of the Interior about nuclear power plants and the risk of not being able to meet the demand, including in winter. He tells me that "never will our plants be a problem because they have been checked, checked, inspected by AFCN". And he adds: "That's why we can afford to extend Doel 1 and 2." Mr Reynders, since you are familiar with the file, what is the situation today? Doel 1 and 2 are down. Why? Because there would be a problem or simply a revision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u114	I still don't know who said, "Those who...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u115	I'm telling you. I'm developing it in front of you. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u116	You don't want to listen to what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u117	Mr Nollet, two ministers want to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u118	Mr Nollet, you said, "Those who at some point claimed that a nuclear power plant could never fail." It's still something heavy enough, because I've never heard anyone argue that a fridge could never break down.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u119	Mr Reynders, I'll answer you. They're exactly the same...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u120	It would have been less serious if it had been a fridge.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u121	Mr Nollet has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u122	Mr Reynders, in order not to hide anything from you, it is exactly the same as those who, yesterday, denied that the Earth is round. [[Brouhahaha]] That is my answer to your question! They're exactly the same!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u123	It was a different time. You can check: it was the Vatican.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u124	Mr. President, it's personal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u125	Mr President, first of all I would like to assure Mr Nollet that no one in this government has ever challenged the rotondity of the Earth. Then you said something very specific, implying that a member of the government would have claimed that, never, a power plant could fail. Is there a member of the government who once disputed that the power plants had to be maintained and that there was a risk of failure? That is the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u126	Prime Minister, I will reread the sentence: "The stubbornness of...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u127	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u128	Mr. Clarinval, not you, not you... If the Prime Minister can't hear, listen and understand the sentence... "The stubbornness of some, within your government"...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u129	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u130	"The stubbornness of some, within your government, to continue to believe that we can continue the climate policies business as usual..." - you will excuse me, but there are more than one, more than one, who believes that nothing should be done – "... is of the same order as the stubbornness of those who, yesterday again, denied that a nuclear reactor could fail." I have asked the Minister of the Interior many questions and I give you his answer. And I can complete it: Minister Marghem said exactly the same thing. That's your government's line. That is why I applauded you yesterday, Prime Minister. I told you in part and I will officially say it in the gallery: even Olivier Deleuze has not dared to dream of so many closed nuclear power plants in 2018! Imagine you're twice as far away from what the law provided for! By the time we were talking, three reactors should have been shut down. In November 2018, six nuclear reactors will be closed. From this point of view, we can congratulate you! You are reacting nervously enough to the situation in which your Minister of Energy has led you. You are inevitably in trouble when, today, we no longer get out of nuclear power by law but by chaos, which it itself has organized and which your government has validated as part of the extension! Doel 1 and Doel 2 are not currently under revision, they are closed because there has been a leak in the nuclear part of the reactors, i.e. with an accident risk. And that part, at the time of the debates that took place in Parliament, we pointed it out by saying that you must first carry out inspections, check these plants and, eventually, decide. That's what was done for Tihange 1 but that's what your government didn't do. You have not given yourself the useful and necessary calendar. You wanted to force things, and today two plants are closed because there is a leak in the nuclear part, because these inspections have not been carried out in advance. But, yes, the price increases related today to the unavailability of these nuclear power plants must be billed to ENGIE Electrabel. From this point of view, I supported you and your point was clear. But, Prime Minister, you have an obligation of result! You have a revenue obligation for citizens' bills, for SMEs' bills. I now turn to the risk of energy shortages. The problem is real. You discovered it, it seems, at the beginning of October. You discovered it because, for a very long time, you were blinded by the figures that ENGIE Electrabel gave you. In the annals of Parliament, you can find all the interventions in which we warned the minister about the risks in this area, about the fact that these plants were not going to hold up. But you waited for October. What did you have to do at that time? Pick up the phone: +49 to call Angela. You had no other solution. But the political signal is interesting. Belgium, with its nuclear reactors of which it was sure everything would be fine, is obliged to call the country which has the most committed in the energy transition, the symbol...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u131	In coal, too!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u132	Give me the numbers!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u133	Production exploded in terms of...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u134	Give me the numbers, Mr. Clarinval!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u135	I don't know the numbers. You know very well that Germany is increasing its CO2 emissions. It increases its coal production, even with lignite. You know that very well, Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u136	Mr. Clarinval, I've planned the numbers. I knew you'd fall into the sign. Let's go! Germany is starting to emerge from nuclear power in 2016. The latest known figures are those of 2017. I do not yet have the figures for 2018, as the year is not yet over. I'm going on: - the renewable 2006-2017: plus 145 TWh. Are you in dispute? No. - nuclear: minus 91 TWh. - coal (I've done the sum) or lignite: minus 46 TWh.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u137	What is the proportion of electricity produced by coal in Germany, sir? This is decreasing, but tell us what the proportion is!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u138	It doesn't matter how much! Suck it up! Mr. Clarinval, you just said that coal was increasing. I'm telling you, "minus 46 TWh." Point, bar!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u139	Given the main sources of Germany's energy mix, coal is therefore imported. You know that very well!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u140	Today we can agree, Mr Clarinval, that there is indeed coal in Germany. It's obvious! I have never denied it, but coal is decreasing, nuclear is decreasing and it is being replaced by renewables. If you have done the sum of the figures I have given you, renewables do more than the reduction of coal and nuclear energy, which means that when Charles telephones Angela, he asks her to give her the difference that comes from renewable energies. This is the political signal that is being given today. Mr Clarinval, I will give you these figures from the rostrum and I invite you to use them regularly rather than continuing to say that Germany has replaced nuclear power with coal. That's not true! Contrary to what you said, that's not true. The numbers are here. You said that coal had increased and replaced nuclear power. That's not true! There's coal, yes, there's coal! He's down. Not fast enough, but I'm sorry, coal figures are falling in Germany, Mr Clarinval. I hope you can never use that argument again. I thank Angela Merkel for offering her renewable energy to Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u141	Mr Nollet, without arguing, there is also a European dimension in the energy issue, which is why, when the question is asked, I have made it clear that we are trying to work to advance real European interconnection capacities. It has happened in the past - I don't remember when - that Belgium supports neighbouring countries facing difficulties. I am thinking of France, in particular, not so long ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u142	I'm not going to deny you about that. I would like to stress the importance of having a European project on the interconnection of renewable energies, and in particular on the offshore potential, not only in Belgian territory, but also in extraterritorial areas where European projects could be developed. I asked the minister about this and she knows it well. As long as we are in the fact-checking and, after fact-checking the coal, I will allow myself to highlight two elements outside the energy issue. Have you, in your statement, checked and looked at the number of times you refer to women's rights, especially gender equality? I didn't find any in your statement. Secondly, a second point on which I will ask you to make a small fact-checking is your commitment made at the beginning of the legislative term: "The government will gradually bring the minimum social security benefits and social assistance to the level of the European threshold." You have seven months left! I have not heard that the poverty line will be reached at the end of the legislature, through your five remaining goals for the next seven months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u143	Mr Nollet, two very specific points. First of all, when I talk about democracy, fundamental values, freedoms and human rights, I am obviously aiming at equality between men and women. I believe that creating suspicion on this subject is a limited intellectual step. Secondly, with regard to your second point, the poverty line, to be extremely precise on this subject, yes, the Government's ambition is to continue to work to ensure that progress is made in the fight against poverty. This is the sense of the mobilization of the well-being envelopes. And to be very concrete, when, for example, we succeed, thanks to the increase in the welfare envelopes for minimum pensions, we allow many pensioners to get out of the situation below the poverty line in which they were in. This shows that we are continuing our efforts in this area. With regard to the subject of poverty, our conviction may not be the same as yours - it is democratic freedom - but we are convinced that the instrument of employment, of work, is the best key to reducing poverty on a sustainable basis. It is indeed a great difference with you, who do not consider this subject as important as it is with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u144	I come to your commitment today. There are still many people below the poverty line in Belgium. For an isolated person, the social integration income is 229 euros per month. It's below the poverty line. The most impoverished people have 229 euros per month. I wanted you to hear it. I shall turn the floor to my colleague Calvo, who will continue the reflection of the Ecolo-Groen Group. However, I wanted to say how much our willingness to put climate change at the centre of the debate is not a coincidence, but a real choice. Indeed, this policy determines the rest. You will not solve problems, including migration problems, if you do not resolve the issue of climate change. You will not have sustainable economic development if you do not resolve this issue. Neither will you have a health policy, if you do not. So, considering what has been done over the past four years, and which has led to gas gases increasing in Belgium, while they have been falling steadily over the last ten years, I think I can say here, together with my colleagues, that Belgium has lost four years, and that these four years will weigh very heavily on the balance sheet of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u145	Mr Calvo, you have the floor. Your speaking time is still ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u146	Mr Nollet has often been interrupted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u147	It's been calculated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u148	You haven't been very strict today, so it would be crazy, should you suddenly discover that discipline. Prime Minister, the State of the Union is a bit of a highlight, or should it be? In any case, I noticed that it brought you and your colleague Reynders together. It's been a long time since we've seen you work together like this. That is an important observation at the beginning of my speech. (Protests from Prime Minister Michel) I have adapted a little to your speech just now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u149	Efforts are still needed if you are to adapt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u150	Prime Minister, yesterday you had a chance to win a fine prize. You've done a great deal to keep up appearances, but it's hard to hide the government dragging itself to the end. You said that rule is similar to climbing mountains. Over the past few months, and actually for a long time, it's often looked like surplaces with the government. It seems to be making very difficult progress in a number of matters which are important to us. I must admit, however, that the crisis atmosphere of 2016 when Minister Peeters left the nuclear cabinet and you were a few weeks late has disappeared. She has actually made way for a certain indulgence. You are even a day early, Prime Minister, so that you can leave for Malaysia in time. I sometimes wonder if it is a coincidence that you have spent so much time abroad lately. I don't think so. I think you're getting ready for what's gonna come.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u151	I can hear a lot, I have a lot of patience, but I am not yet the one who sets the date of the UN General Assembly, I am not the one who decides when the Francophony Summit will be organised and I am not the one who decides when European summits will be organised. I am always here to defend our country's interests. I have heard Mr Nollet's lesson about the absence of a minister at an important summit. I do indeed do my job, I am present at international level, every time that is necessary, never when it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u152	Sometimes it just seems like you're looking forward to a new job. The future will tell. In any case, you will give a government statement for the last time during this policy period. I took a look back.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u153	Mr President, I would like to point out that the arguments are entirely in the vein of politicians such as Mr Orban. Mr Calvo is the first to teach, that is the style, the strategy, pure populism, 100 percent populism à la Calvo!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u154	I'm finding the nerves are tense. (Protests from Prime Minister Michel) I said very quietly, with a wink: sometimes it looks like you're looking for a new job. The future will tell. Prime Minister, it is certainly the last time for this policy period that you will bring forward the State of the Union. In 2014 it was the first time. That was a whole different world. Donald Trump was still a reality star back then. Mr Macron had just become Minister of Trade in the Dutch Government. [[Consultation]] If you listened a little more to the nuance and the winks in my discourse, Prime Minister, you would already hear more what I really say. I was telling you that since you became Prime Minister, the world has changed completely. I was talking about Mr Trump and Mr Macron. When you started this legislature, the British were still part of the European Union. Prime Minister, after about two sentences, you were in a cramp, and now you are going to have an ostentatious seat on the banks of the parliamentarians. You have just thought that you should give me a lesson in dealing with a parliamentary debate, but what you are doing now shows very little class.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u155	Colleagues, there's a limit to everything. Maybe we could just stick to the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u156	Mr President, I was on the subject until the Prime Minister turned his back on me. Prime Minister, much has actually changed in the world around us. Where's the change? In a time that is very confusing and in which a lot of things change very quickly, the question is whether four years Charles Michel has actually created more uncertainty and more confusion. Colleagues, I am afraid the answer to that question is yes. Prime Minister, you have talked about the plus points and the positive evolutions, but what is often lacking in your story is that there are also a lot of losers. I've been talking about a record number of people who have to live on a living wage. More and more people also need to knock on the door of food banks. There is also a record number of people long-term ill. Those are all losers. For all these people, life has become much more uncertain after four years of Charles Michel. Yesterday the news came out that in the meantime nearly 2.3 million compatriots are at risk of poverty. In the meantime, I find that the anciens, the old crocodiles, are revisiting. Anyway, Prime Minister, if a small hint is made on your person, you go through the roof. At that moment, you, Charles Michel, are in the party to engage in the political debate. When I speak of 2.3 million compatriots, who are at risk of poverty, you seem to care little or nothing. At that time, you'll be looking up the banks of your fellow party members. What I am asking, Prime Minister, is for more attention to be paid to this. I'm also looking at the colleagues from CD&V. Why are we confronted with these figures? Why are 2.3 million compatriots at risk of poverty, Mr Verherstraeten? That is because an election promise, an eternal promise in Belgian politics, is not fulfilled. On the holiday of Rerum Novrum 2007 Yves Leterme said he would raise the poverty payout to the poverty line. Leterme made two promises at the time. There were five minutes of political courage to split BHV. In the end, it took a little longer. A promise that has not yet been fulfilled is the promise to raise benefits to the poverty line.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u157	Mr Calvo, you referred to a message from yesterday. May I refer to a message that was circulated this morning? It is true that we do not yet reach the European level in the fight against poverty. But we are on the right track, even though we have not yet fully achieved our goal. At the same time, I read that the report by Oxfam International and the British NGO Development Finance International, which makes a comparison between countries in their fight against inequality, puts us on the sixth place on the world list when it comes to combating inequality. I admit, that does not make us a world champion, nor does it make us a medal. But we're doing better than the Netherlands. We're doing even better than Sweden. I can do better than that. It is our ambition to do even better, but saying that we have not taken any steps forward in this legislature, saying that our country performs poorly in the fight against inequality, is to attack the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u158	Mr Verherstraeten, of course there are reports for us to read immediately, so I have read them as well. It is true that our country is redistributing more than other countries. However, despite this redistribution, we are in a situation which should move us all, including the Prime Minister, who is leaving this Chamber at the moment when this issue is being discussed. After all, 2.3 million of our compatriots are at risk of poverty. These people have very little message from an international perspective. A promise made in 2007 by the then largest political formation deserves to be realized.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u159	I would just like to point out to Mr. Calvo that the Prime Minister has been involved in all the debates since the morning. He had to go wash his hands and he asked me to keep watching everything you were saying. That's what I'm doing, and the Prime Minister will be back soon. I don't think all your insinuations are worthy of you, Mr. Calvo. Let us believe that the Prime Minister will represent us abroad in search of another job, that he does not care about a certain part of the population that is at risk of poverty... These are arguments that are not, "arguments to (...)95" as they say to Mons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u160	Mr. Miller, I didn't quite understand the last sentence... but we learn every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u161	That means Mr. Calvo that I wanted to say kindly, without wanting to be too unpleasant with you, that the arguments you have used so far are not worthy of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u162	Mr Miller, if you had really listened to my speech and if you had bothered to reflect on my reasoning, you would have understood that this is not a major personal attack at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that the Prime Minister is allowed to do one speech after the other on an ad hoc basis, to talk to the socialists, to Mr Nollet and to everything and everyone. However, the fact that the Prime Minister has been on the road a lot lately is too small a pit at a time when there is a small quack. Then the barf is too small, our Prime Minister says this is impossible. I have also focused on the content. However, I note that the Prime Minister, perhaps because there is some truth in it, has very long toes on that point. However, Prime Minister, I am glad that you are back. You said just now to Mr Nollet that the difference might be that he believes less in the interest of having a job. Mr Nollet also cited the story of the benefits. However, I believe that the difference lies elsewhere, namely in a different view of success and failure. I feel very strongly in all the speeches that this majority is very much aware of the idea that people who are in poverty and who do not have a job have sought it mostly themselves. However, it is our belief that poverty is actually undeserved. This applies to the 2.3 million people who are at risk of poverty today. That's unearned inequality. People who have a hard time today are often hard at work. That is why we are opposed to making the benefits more degressive, which is why we are calling for them to be increased. Mr. First Minister, you yourself spoke yesterday about a springboard. Degressiveisation of benefits is not a springboard. People are not going to apply better when they have to worry even more about paying invoices. Mr Prime Minister, once again there is a record number of long-term sick. From a sick bed, they're not gonna find the job of their life. Anyone who arrives at school with an empty bread box has less opportunities than more opportunities. If there is a fundamental disagreement between the Ecolo Green Group and you somewhere, it is not about the importance of a job but about a different view of success and failure. Prime Minister, you have talked about five dossiers for the last seven months. But the dossier of this time frame, and I am very much in favour of it, Mr Nollet, yours and our agreement with the future, was hardly discussed. It's about the climate theme. I did the math: 281 characters including spaces, 38 words from the more than 5 200 words in your government statement. In those few sentences there was still an appeal to our citizens to change their habits. Prime Minister, it is not so much our citizens who need to change their habits, what needs to change is politics, policies in this country. The fact that a while ago Mrs Marghem, apparently at the request of the N-VA, missed an important Benelux climate agreement, is no coincidence. The fact that our country is missing the European summit today, and I do not really care very much about who should be there, when important climate agreements are on the agenda, is significant. Climate policy is the major absentee in this government policy. And our ministers are even absent from important climate agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u163	May I ask you to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u164	Prime Minister, you talked about your obsession with jobs, jobs, jobs. There should be another obsession, namely climate, climate, climate. By the way, that would be very good news for that first obsession. I also note that two major killers in this country have not or have not been dealt with either. Firstly, road safety. If we went to the Dutch level of road safety, we would save 250 lives each year, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. A concrete suggestion from us: finally enter that driving licence with points. Secondly, air pollution, that's another killer in this country. Air pollution costs us EUR 8 billion a year and costs us eight healthy months per countryman. A concrete suggestion from us: put an end to this mad system of pay-cars. If you drive 100 kilometres to the sea on Sunday, the taxpayer contributes 30 kilometres to that. That's a total crazy system. Ninety-six percent of our payroll cars are diesel cars. Diesel cars that make you sick. Diesel cars that are part of the basis of the figures I have just given. Prime Minister, I would like to conclude with something that is very dear to me. I thought it was nice and important that at the end of your speech you wanted to motivate young people to go to the polls well informed on Sunday. I suggest you don't do that alone here. Invest not only in diplomacy, but also in our local democracy as Prime Minister. Try to engage more often with young people in the coming period. If you also want to be the prime minister of the young generation, you will also have to become a climate premier for the next seven months. After all, it has a climate generation, a generation for which the climate is an important theme. That generation demands that a prime minister spends more than six rules on this important agreement with the future. Colleagues, that is one of the reasons why I think and hope that Sunday may be a fairly green Sunday. The climate theme is always becoming more important in society. I express that hope with a view to Sunday. Mr Prime Minister, it is unfortunate that you will see more populism on both the left and the right side next Sunday and also in May 2019. You are the first to blame others, including myself and members of Ecolo, for populism, but I note that populism is allowed in your government. You let it grow and grow it. Because of the extra uncertainty you are sowing among our citizens, you also reap extra populism. When people worry about their wages and pensions, there is growing distrust of the strange, of Muslims and of refugees. Popularists in your government cultivate that competition. Last Sunday our colleague Bart De Wever said in the Seventh Day that if we want more crumbs for the disabled and pensioners to be left, the cake cannot be distributed to more and more people. Suddenly, when it comes to refugees, populists in your government care about the poor. I think that's hypocritical. The fact that they are constantly organizing this competition is, in my opinion, very bad. The danger to our social security does not come from the left or not from Syria, but from this government itself and from the right. Prime Minister, you yourself rightly spoke about the false contradiction between workers and employers. However, I note, Prime Minister, that after four years of Charles Michel there are actually more contradictions in our society, and fewer bridges, and that the members of your government organise more competition than solidarity. I admit that you, as a person, are not the engine of that growing populism, but you are fueling it. You're providing tolerating support. Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. A small country like Belgium can be great in international fora. We are the last to deny its importance. I believe that a small country such as Belgium can also be an important voice in the European Union, including at the level of the United Nations. But not with this government, not this way, not if it's just speeches. The Prime Minister asked for confidence in his speech. Well, we cannot give this Prime Minister and this government our confidence today, especially after the policy of the last four years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u165	Mr President, I would like to make one more point to correct. Mr Calvo has just interrupted me, referring to the IMF report. I checked. It was about the budget deficit. When I said that we were evolving from 3% to 1%, he interrupted me, saying that today the IMF published a report showing that it was 1.5 %. I note, for the report, that Mr Calvo seems to confuse economic growth with the deficit. Economic growth has been adjusted to 1.5 %. That is also what the National Bank said. When I said that we were going from 3% to 1%, Mr Calvo interrupted me. The reading of the report will make clear what Mr Calvo has said. This seems to be the way Mr Calvo is debating it. I find this hallucinating.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u166	Mr Dewael, you are nodding. You are not showing any restraint either. The IMF has said two things today. But I'll tell you what I said first. The IMF is predicting a deficit of 1.8 % of GDP for 2019. That's what I threw at you. In addition, the IMF predicts that growth is falling to 1.5 %. If anyone here confuses the deficit and growth rates, Mr Dewael, it is you. I have just spoken about the deficit forecast, which is 1.8 %. You are talking about growth and it was indeed adjusted by the IMF to 1.5 %. I would like to look at the report and go through the report with you. We will not agree on the IMF's recommendations, but it is difficult to discuss the findings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u167	Deficit and growth? I was talking about reducing the deficit by this government from 3% to 1%. You then waved a figure and said that today the IMF is talking about 1.5%.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u168	1.8 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u169	The IMF cannot talk about 1.8 %. The budget will be presented at European level next week. How could the IMF talk about 1.8 % on the basis of a budget not yet submitted to Europe? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is nonsense!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u170	I would like to say two things about the IMF figure. Firstly, the IMF is indeed reducing the growth rate from 1.9 % to 1.5 %. This, of course, has an immediate impact on the budget. However, much more important than that is the fact that by definition, as Mr Dewael said, the Summer Agreement cannot yet be included. That's about 2.5 billion. Add both data. In general terms, I would like to point out, in the light of the figures from the Planning Office, from the IMF and soon from the European Commission, that the same song will always be heard around this time of year. Last year it was exactly the same. We will then get figures on what the budget will be, which are hugely different from what the government is putting on the table. And each time at the beginning of the new year, we find that the figures are beginning to evolve towards government figures. It's the same song every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u171	Mr President-in-Office, the IMF's prognosis will still have to be proved. However, I am pleased that you have joined me in some way. I have just indicated, in the discussion with Mr Dewael, that the IMF is reducing growth to 1.5%. It predicts a deficit of 1.8 % for 2019. So there was no confusion in my head between deficit and growth, but in Mr Dewael's head.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u172	Prime Minister, yesterday was your last speech on the state of the Union. During your first speech in the House, few of us – as many observers of political life did – were paying a lot of attention to you. Many saw you in office for a maximum of six months. They were wrong. You stood up against winds and tides and showed your ability to swallow snakes from your partners, including the most indigestible of the N-VA. The composition of your government and majority was clear: a right-wing government for a right-wing policy, a government dominated by Dutch-speaking people for a policy modelled on their needs. No one was surprised. At the time of its formation in 2014, your government had expressed ambitions on important issues. You even had good ones. Today, however, it must be noted that your team has often provided bad answers. The promotion of employment, the reduction of taxes on labour, the sustainability of pensions, hospital policy and health, climate and energy policy, the environment, the modernisation of justice, the status of victims of terrorism, migration and investment made up the government's menu, but for what results? Let's see what answers you've given. Let us first address the important socio-economic chapter. We have already had the opportunity to discuss this earlier: yes, it is true, jobs have been created, but the employment rate remains extremely low and is changing less favourably than that of comparable European Union Member States, even though the international economic situation is very positive. Since 2014, Belgium has fallen to twenty-third out of thirty in the employment rate ranking. We exchanged earlier about the number of fully unemployed people in receipt of compensation. I have also counter-argued in response to your statement on the reduction of the unemployment rate, which obviously minimises the referral to the CPAS, but also to disability. Second, when we observe the intensity of growth in terms of employment as a function of GDP, it appears that, for the period 2007 to 2014, Belgium showed an elasticity of 0.71%. In other words, with each 1% increase in GDP, employment increased by 0.71%. For the period 2014-2017, this elasticity decreased to 0.44%. In other words, fewer jobs are created in the light of the development of GDP.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u173	In my personal capacity, I will never question the jobs that have been created, but at the same time, of course, bragging does not seem right to me given a whole series of elements, especially when we compare ourselves to other countries in the euro area. Let us also remember that we are far from the goal that Europe has set itself – and has set for us – for 2020, which is in line with the commitment that "you" made when this government was set up, since that is something that you had precisely "stuck" in your government agreement: you were obliging yourself to achieve the target set for Belgium in the context of Europe 2020, and you are still far from it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u174	Mrs Fonck, the floor is for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u175	Mrs Fonck, the figures on the employment intensity of economic growth mean what 1% of economic growth gives in terms of employment growth. In the long term, the average for Belgium over the last 25 years is 0.52%. [[In 2014, we were at 0.3%, i.e. that 1% of economic growth generated an increase in employment of the order of 0.3%.]] In 2015, we reached 0.62%, up from 0.83% in 2016 and 0.82% in 2017. Thus, for the last two years, the National Bank's figures confirm a 50% higher employment intensity of growth than Belgium's long-term average. I rest my box!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u176	Minister, we're not going to start a number fight here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u177	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u178	I didn't invent the numbers and I don't do the elasticity calculations. I'm unable to do that, by the way. So I'm looking for the numbers in reference documents. That said, we could sneeze infinity. However, as I have already said, Minister, I have taken up some objective figures. But we will have the opportunity, during the discussions on the deal jobs you announced in July 2018, to address these issues again. In July, you announced the deal jobs and its measures. Since then, three months have passed and we are still talking about the titles. It is very regrettable that we cannot talk a little more about these matters. Indeed, in July, I found it extremely interesting that we could move forward and address the issue of jobs in short supply while continuing to call for the avoidance of dogmatic postures in employment debates. One of the measures you put on the table in July is undoubtedly the expression of such a posture. It is true that this is a question of a fight led by the N-VA to limit unemployment benefits over time, but with an extremely truncated presentation, in my view, since the caricature of unemployment benefits does not stand the way when we draw a comparison with the other European countries. It must indeed be recognised that unemployment benefits in our country are unlimited in time and that this is not the case in other European countries, with the exception of one. But when you compare everything, reality is quite different. May I remind you that the level of allocation for the first period is much lower in Belgium than in a large number of European countries? May I also point out that the beginning of degression is much earlier in Belgium than in many other European countries? May I say here that the level of the third period of unemployment is indeed lower than in other European countries, but also that, in countries where benefits are limited in time, there is a replacement by a series of other allowances. This replacement leads to a level of income which, in a number of cases, is higher than the level presented by Belgium. When you compare, you have to say everything and you have to compare everything. In this case, I think that the way in which you present the acceleration of degression, as if this acceleration would all of a sudden enable the unemployed to return to work more quickly, is a decoy. Training, training and training, not only at the beginning but also throughout the professional career, in my opinion, is a much more effective and important response in terms of trades, including those in need.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u179	The Prime Minister wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u180	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for approaching the subject in this way, but I would really like to share with you a conviction that starts from a starting point on which I think we will all agree. All surveys, studies and analyses in Belgium and abroad show that when a person loses his or her job, the first days and weeks are extremely important to increase the chances of return to the labour market. As several have pointed out, it is indeed evident that, after a certain period of time, it is becoming increasingly difficult to facilitate the return of these people to the labour market. This is the first observation. Second observation: objectively, there is a very large difference between the situation today and the situation a few years ago. A few years ago, indeed, the economic situation was more complicated, with the elimination of tens of thousands of jobs in the private sector, and that was when the previous government took decisions to degress and exclude the unemployed. Several tens of thousands of people were excluded at a time when there were no jobs. The situation today is very different. It is because there is currently a rather unique momentum that I am in favour of a policy of degression. Why? Because, today, there is a problem of vacant jobs, there is the whole difference. A significant part of these vacancies, as the facts show, do not concern highly qualified persons. A significant percentage of these vacancies concern persons with low qualifications. And if degression was a simple budgetary measure, as it has been in the past - the Minister for Employment has highlighted the budget tables which showed the savings of EUR 300 million in unemployment insurance - I would not be in favour of this measure. I am very much in favour of this today, because this measure actually aims to increase the participation rate because it is reinforced by 27 other measures. The trade jobs, Madam Member, are a total of 28 measures in the federal field, along with other measures put in place by the Regions, all of which are concentrated on what I have heard throughout the day, quite rightly, that is, on how to encourage, to strengthen each one in his or her competences - institutional reality in Belgium - in order to give more chance to training, to accompaniment that goes towards employment. So it's a totally different strategy. To understand a little your moderate, rarely caricatural, economic and social vision, I am surprised that you do not see this great set, these particular circumstances that lead us to activate this reform. In November, we will have specific proposals as well as the Minister's simulations. I repeat that the intention is to increase the first few months in order to have a form of degression, and to see, at the same time, within the framework of clear envelopes, how the social partners will deliver opinions to the government on how to manage the distribution between the different beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u181	Prime Minister, thank you for this exchange. Let me make a few comments. We obviously agree on the need to move forward with regard to jobs in short supply. I hope that we can also get together on the need to be able to encourage and strengthen training and employment. But alongside a whole series of positive measures in the field of jobs in short supply, at the same time, on the degressive aspect of unemployment benefits, the margins are narrow. Unless you get quickly below integration income. All you have to do is look at the figures, including in comparison with European countries with a system of time-limited allowances. They do not change as we do in the possibility of eventually leaving the CPAS, but they have other systematic allocations. This allows them to establish a higher level of income than the level of benefits for the third period of unemployment in our country. Let me make a proposal. I have heard that there would be a compensation for the acceleration of the reduction of allowances in the event of training, in particular through the training premium, with a defiance. There is the whole aspect of training, including all aspects of alternance training, work placements, jobs including in sectors such as FTAs; in short, everything that shows that unemployed people are making efforts. It seems to me that we must be able to support and recognize these efforts. I call for all the efforts made by jobseekers, not only in training but also in internships in companies and typical FTA jobs, to be recognised and valued in this system, and for them not to be victims of a system that would continue to speed up degression. All the more so, and I shall conclude with this, unless you wish to broaden this debate, that it must always be borne in mind that the number of vacancies for job seekers remains far below the number of applicants, it seems to me. Yes, we must be able to focus on jobs that are in short supply, but let's not generalize by saying that this will allow all job seekers to find a job tomorrow or the day after. With regard to labour taxation and the famous tax shift, we have already had the opportunity to discuss it earlier, and some measures have improved the competitiveness of companies. This represents a certain cost in relation to the employment created and, as I explained earlier, I will not come back to the issue of the bill referred to the coming legislature. This is not a statement by the opposition. This is an observation of experts, including academics, for example. As far as pensions are concerned, the MR himself did not take into account his own commitment. The age of the pension at 67 had been discussed only a few months after the MR and in particular Mr Bacquelaine repeated, in the election campaign, that he would not be affected by the pension age. In essence, the pension age is not the most important. What concerns me most is that you have not taken any action to ensure effective retention for older people. What is essential is not the legal age of the pension, but the total employment rate, including that of 55 to 65 years, and the strategy to be deployed to support employability and to try to lengthen the length of professional careers, ensuring that this is feasible. As Jean Hendrickx rightly says and repeats, we do not run a marathon at the speed of a sprint. Without strong career development measures - whether qualitative or quantitative - the legal age of the pension will have little effect. This is seen in part today, as a number of people who no longer have access to pre-pension are being sent back to disability today. There is really a vase communicating with disability, especially in this age group 55 to 65.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u182	I understood that each group would speak and that the minister would respond, as usual, but we can engage in a permanent dialogue on each issue. It's your choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u183	Mr President, thank you for allowing me to comply with the Rules of Procedure within the prescribed time limit. I would like to draw attention briefly to a real subject, which I see as twofold. This is, on the one hand, the development of career ends. If we want to move towards the average length of career, we may need to consider other ways of working towards the end of the career. You will then recognize that the principle of partial pension that was approved by the government this Friday is in the right direction. It will make it possible to give more choice and flexibility, and thus to encourage the possibility, in the future, of continuing to work in a smaller way while taking part-time pension. On the other hand, I'm going back to disability. This subject, from my point of view, is not left or right. It's a subject of society. For many years, there has been an explosion of disability associated with depression and burn out. This is a new form of difficulty, particularly in relation to work. To this end, I hope that the work carried out by the social partners in the framework of more than 200 concrete projects presented will lead to a radical change of approach in companies and within administrations, in order to try to prevent this phenomenon. We need to understand this phenomenon better than we do today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u184	Prime Minister, on disability: there is indeed burn-out, but let us also see the reality. This means that besides this, there are also patients who have severe illnesses, and for whom the re-use technique you have used raises a number of questions. I'm not going to reopen this debate here. As far as the partial pension is concerned, we will see the texts. I do not know exactly what mechanism you have planned, but the whole thing is to know whether this actually corresponds to qualitative and quantitative adjustments that are sufficiently constructive and positive to make these people want to stay at work, so that they can benefit from their achievements and experience, in particular to pass them on to the younger ones, and to avoid premature exits. Until the problem of the employment rate of 55 to 65 years of age is resolved, it is possible to dance belly dance over the pension age – which ultimately does not matter – that it is the length of the career on which all the positive elements can be brought that will move the case forward in the right direction. In this respect, I can only regret that you yourself have chosen to do the opposite since the beginning of the legislature. You have removed the existing arrangements, now you are talking about the partial pension. There is still nothing concrete about difficult jobs. We'll take stock at the end of the legislature, Prime Minister. As far as health care management is concerned, you know that I am still being measured in my remarks, but let me tell you that I was shocked by your intervention yesterday. It was an ultra-liberal intervention! Health is not limited to the drug industry! Health is not reduced to "Pharma Valley," as you call it. This sector, which is extremely promising, already benefits from a highly favourable regime in view of the major savings that you have imposed on other health actors. Today, this sector is not even able to keep up with its trajectory, yet the only one that is concrete in multi-year health care budgets. We see this in the preparation of the 2019 budget, it is the other health actors, despite the drastic savings that have been imposed on them, that will compensate. And therefore, the patients too! It should be remembered that next to the "Pharma Valley" the hospital sector is a major economic sector. He is the first private economic player in a range of regions in Belgium. It should talk to you as a Liberal. Damn! It's non-commercial. This is hardly thanks to your majority! Is it worth recalling here that the first line, whether it be doctors, nurses or other caregivers, is investing on a daily basis to ensure quality care for all? Not a single word yesterday, Prime Minister! And yet, do we have to remind you that they are being mistreated – see on the ground; I know they have called on you several times – by a series of measures that have been imposed, added one after the other without any stability, even though this stability, you have allowed the pharmaceutical sector to do so? Is it necessary to tell you that the Minister of Health has taken them terribly uncoordinated or in a very selective way, sometimes very unbalanced? Do we have to say here that reforms were and remain indispensable? I do not want to balance this issue at all, but it must be noted that successive economies have done very badly and that the breakdown of trust among health actors is very important. Yesterday, you did point to one or the other measure, including the screening of cystic fibrosis put in place by all governments. You talked about the psychological refund, but you excluded people over 65 years of age. You never talk about brutal and counterproductive measures, for example, the mistreatment of kine in patients with fibromyalgia, many women who, in addition, are pushed towards work stoppage. This is obviously totally counterproductive, even for the state. You never talk about the daily lives of general practitioners, who are in short supply in almost one in two communes on the francophone side. You never speak of Belgian medical or dentistry students who are set aside, when you give an INAMI number to European doctors and dentists in a systematic way, regardless of the quality of their training and internship and regardless of their knowledge – or not – of one of our country's languages. Prime Minister, I myself have tabled a text to set a quota for foreign doctors and dentists arriving at our home with a degree from a foreign university. Either you consider that you can justify a quota for Belgians for questions of quality of care while, at the same time, you leave the door open to all European foreigners. There, as by chance, the justification and argumentation of the quality of care is no longer necessary. Come on, come on, you can all come in! Do you know that two years ago, there were more European doctors who obtained their INAMI number than Francophones? Do you find that normal? Do you find it logical, while in addition, several other European countries are indeed interested in making progress in this area, that here in Belgium everyone sits on it and that everyone finds it normal? This upside down discrimination, this downside discrimination of our young Belgians, is totally unacceptable. The European area, the European regulations allow you to intervene in this matter. In fact, I remain at my disposal to move forward with the proposals that I have tabled, but also to find positive solutions that are indispensable. You never talk about the overload of nurses with too narrow a setting, either in the hospital or in the home. You never talk about some seriously ill patients for whom there have been setbacks in treatment management. I am thinking in particular of asthmatic children. Nor do you ever talk about patients who are desperately waiting for reimbursement authorizations that are already granted in the countries around us. So, of course, when you promise at the beginning of the legislature a 1.5% growth standard and you don't respect it, the consequences are felt. Yet, it's not all about budget. Chronic diseases are exploding. The levers that are known and that are in the hands of the federal government to reduce these chronic diseases, especially in a range of prevention areas, you have so little activated them! In this respect, I think I can say here that the Minister of Health is under the lobby of economic sectors. That is the case with tobacco. This is the case with respect to alcohol. Your decisions in this area, while they are responsible for a very large number of chronic diseases that are quite catastrophic for patients and which weigh enormously in the state budget, have been insignificant. Five years lost! It will cost patients and the state a lot! We had the opportunity to discuss energy policy earlier. Maybe I'm not gonna reopen...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u185	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u186	Thank you, Laurette!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u187	Mr President, I should like to inform Mrs Fonck about the quotas for foreign medical students. I asked that this lead be explored legally to see if it is possible to take your point into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u188	Prime Minister, thank you. It has never been four years since I moved on to this issue, four years since I pleaded this issue in the Committee on Public Health, four years since I tabled amendments introducing my text – because there are laws with various provisions on all health issues. These amendments have been rejected by the majority, but I take your answer as a handshake. That is why I repeat that I remain available, including with the lawyers specialising in European issues, in order to try to move forward on this issue. Quotas can simply be abolished. In any case, we cannot continue to discriminate against our young people, even though we know the health needs and leave the door open to European citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u189	Mrs Fonck, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have seven minutes left.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u190	With the interruptions, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u191	With the interruptions, which I obviously counted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u192	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u193	I am very rigorous in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u194	I now turn to climate and energy policy. Of course, I would have liked to refer at length to the IPCC report. Perhaps I will just mention – and this will be more effective than a long speech – the environmental associations that yesterday called for systematic transformations, Prime Minister. I quote them: "The climate emergency must no longer be the priority of Charles Michel's speeches at the UN or in Parliament, but that of each of his government's actions". There are, of course, many initiatives to be taken. In terms of mobility alone, the issues are of concern. We have not discussed the related budget here. Yet your choice of cash for because has not resulted in much; it can even be described as a total flop. We have submitted proposals on this subject and are prepared to discuss it again. As for the investments, Prime Minister, I was laughing yesterday when I heard you talking about Chaudfontaine station. All this is obviously very nice, but don't hesitate to accompany us on station visits to discover the daily life of commuters who are tight like sardines! The Chaudfontaine station is very good, but I know many others who are in a catastrophic state and who welcome lines that have been abandoned. As such, I always recall the savings you have imposed. Now, of course, at the end of the legislative term, you are proposing some progress, but you have first and foremost imposed drastic savings that are frankly undermining SNCB's mobility policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u195	I recall several points to indicate that, as I said yesterday, we want to increase the supply of transport. This is included in the 2017 transport plan. Growth of more than 5%. Second point: the fact that medium-sized stations are being reopened is a very important and very strong signal which I wanted to highlight by quoting this example. I have also quoted others, both in the north and in the south of the country. Next, acknowledge that in the RER file that has been blocked for many years, work has been restarted to finalize this important project. Also recognize that the investment pact launched highlights three intrinsically linked key points: the energy transition and its climate change dimension, mobility and the digital agenda. Indeed, both for mobility and for the energy transition, artificial intelligence and advances in digital technology have certainly brought technological and scientific advances that will help us in these three challenges over the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u196	Prime Minister, on the investment pact, I will come back to it at the end, but I would like to address the point that you highlight on mobility. You talked about six billion euros. Is that correct? For investment in SNCB, I mean.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u197	This is an amount to boost investments in SNCB in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u198	Okay, but you keep telling us about significant investments at SNCB. Six billion have been earmarked. I recall that this amount was described as insufficient by Infrabel. On the other hand, this amount had been provided for in the various investment plans, so in this area, I would like to avoid the recycling of billions already promised in the past. At some point, you need real novelty and not recycling. I have heard you commit to energy security of supply. We'll see with Germany. We'll see when it's freezing, 'cause that's when it's going to happen. You are committed to offsetting the bill for households and businesses. You've made commitments. We'll see. I hope that there will not be a legal stalemate that will lead to a postponement. You have also made commitments with regard to dismantling. We had a discussion earlier about the article in L'Echo. I'm not going back. Again, you made commitments. We'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u199	I would have liked to address a number of other issues, including security issues, with problems of lack of police in terms of compliance with the framework today. As well as the subjects of the Defence, we will see what is happening with regard to the F-16s. In the area of justice, too, I would like to tell you how much, Prime Minister, with regard to the victims of terrorist attacks, we do not understand why, today, victims are still waiting for decent compensation for their damages. Of course, you are going to tell me that the legislation is now in the Justice Committee. But on the other hand, you know or at least have heard it from the victims, it only meets their needs in a minimalist way. I think it is our duty here in Parliament to relay the words of these victims. And I can tell you, after having met several of them, some of which have remained hospitalized extremely long, that the problems of reimbursement, the way in which the state has failed to advance certain repayments, are particularly disturbing facts! I find that the State has failed in its duty to support these victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u200	Mrs Fonck, may I ask you to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u201	Mr President, I shall come to my conclusion, which is of two types. The first conclusion is that this assessment does not plead for you and we will therefore deny you our confidence for the fourth time. But I still wanted to try here to open up a positive perspective, Prime Minister. The investment pact, which we believe is essential because it must prepare for the future in the medium and long term. This plan will have to last on two or even three legislatures. In my view, it must be able to integrate all the living forces and all the democratic political forces. We want to support this initiative so that it can succeed, but it is true that there are pitfalls. The way things have been done very recently, it is true, a number of communication management questions about how you have involved the working groups, which could have been more representative. The way, too, in which certain aspects seem to be like recycling. I would like to conclude my speech by launching a form of appeal. To the parties of the majority, first of all, Prime Minister, so that you can demonstrate a necessary openness on the substance and on the method, so that this investment pact can succeed. But I would also like to appeal to the opposition parties to be part of the process that has already begun. To improve it, complement it, and also assure it of their support beyond differences. Yesterday, you quoted Mandela, who said, "After climbing a hill, all we find is that there are many other hills to climb." It's a nice quote, full of wisdom and truth. But I suggest you complete it with Mandela's other readings that evoke his humility, his ability to gather or to question himself. I have a suggestion about the investment pact: take an open attitude; listen to stakeholders, including Francophones; change your mind if it is necessary; do what is necessary to integrate all the living forces and all the democratic political forces. This plan aims for the medium and long term. It must therefore be designed to last beyond one, two or even three legislatures. This implies a broad social and political consensus. We have a collective obligation to succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u202	Mrs Pas has the floor. For the groups which are not in the Conference of Presidents, I assume they know that we have agreed on a speaking time of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u203	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the Prime Minister spoke yesterday in his policy statement on burn-out as a disease of our time, it seemed to me that he was talking about his own government. The fut, the pit, the dash, as it apparently is called, is out as far as she's ever been in it. The current government itself suffers from energy shortages. In the meantime, the Prime Minister's passion has also disappeared. Even the applause was lukewarm yesterday. The cattle have been trained here, however, to give themselves courage over and over again. I notice that most people have already given up supporting all day today. Prime Minister, I wonder if you still believe in it yourself. Why else did you make the very remarkable call, which you concluded your government statement, to participate in the elections on Sunday? I thought for a moment that I had missed something and that in the meantime the voting obligation had finally been abolished. However, that is not the case. Apart from Greece and North Korea, we are still the only country where voting is still compulsory. In a country without a voting obligation, such a call for a vote is normal. That is where politicians have to convince people to go to the polls for a good project. So it has already come to this point that you must try to convince people with voting rights to go to the booth. I understand why. After all, the shouts of joy that you gave us yesterday are in stark contrast to the hard facts. Merkel has already helped us with the asylum flow. Now you're counting on her help to reduce the risk of power shortages. Of course, there's a price to that. You also know that Electrabel will pass this on to the consumer if your remedies succeed. I hear Mr Verherstraeten and Mr De Roover here this morning saying that this cannot be passed on to the consumer. Mr De Roover has already started walking, but he did it in his typical way, with humour but especially with a lot of exaggerations, to belittle others. He explained it with a lot of show, but how credible are his words? After all, the current government has increased the energy bill by EUR 300 on barely one government period. Citizens know that he will be forced to pass on Marghem's mischief. It is written in the stars that in addition to the invoices, energy poverty, which affects one in five families today, will reach new heights. I had at least expected a concrete commitment that you would compensate for the additional costs of this mispolicy by levying less taxes on electricity, because today as much as 38% of that electricity bill is made up of taxes. I have heard a lot of praise here about job creation and purchasing power. For the sake of fairness, Prime Minister, you should have mentioned that Belgium is dangling at the bottom of the European tail in terms of economic growth and job creation. According to Eurostat, Belgium is ranked 26 on job creation and the Michael Government's ambition to achieve almost full employment by the end of the legislative term has also turned out to be a sisser. Only Greece, Spain and Italy are doing worse. Nowhere is the tax burden as high as in this country: 53.7% for a single person and 46.2% for two-year-olds. In return for these high taxes, this government guarantees the lowest pensions. The average pension of people who have worked here for a lifetime is EUR 1 200. This is not only less than the amount spent on an asylum seeker who has not yet contributed a penny to the social system, it is also far too little to be able to pay at a later age the retirement invoice of EUR 1 600. The result is also very poor for the budget, for which the N-VA threw the Community into the trash. The promised strength of change was that these budgetary figures would come together. The budgetary balance would first be achieved in 2018. This was later postponed to 2019. Afterwards, it was postponed to 2020 again and thus lifted over the elections. By continuing to postpone that budgetary balance and by increasing public debt, this government is doing exactly what it accused the previous one of shifting debts to future generations. The great achievement is apparently to do as badly in a government without the PS as in a government with the PS. The Prime Minister assures that the government will be knocking on the smallest deficit of the last ten years. As a pilot project for your fact check, this might not be a bad subject. You are counting on a deficit of 0.6%, but the chairman of the Finance Committee has said in the press today that these figures are incorrect. According to him, the deficit will be 1.8 %. The National Bank also predicts a much larger deficit. I have heard Mr De Roover, all the figures that are not so bad by these measures, put on the hat of this government, but Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Dewael were more honest. They have not denied that the favourable economic conditions, the better economic situation throughout Europe and the historically low interest rates were far more important than the strength of the government's measures. If you don't see that, you're blind or of evil will, or usually it's a combination of both. In these favourable economic years, the gap in the budget should have been eliminated, and public debt should have been reduced. So instead of triumphal messages, humble excuses would have been more appropriate. The increase in withholding tax, the increase of 35% in excise duties on diesel, which costs an additional EUR 448 per year to the average diesel driver, the increase in electricity bills, you name it. None of it would have been necessary in such externally favorable circumstances. Tax attorney Anton van Zantbeek formulated it in De Tijd as follows: "Belgium is doing badly for economic growth and does not get its budget in order, but this government does charge everyone flat, just like the previous government. Center left or center right, apparently it doesn't matter." Another quote: "If you look at growth and job creation since the start of the Michel government, Belgium is on the 26th and 23rd place of thirty European countries respectively. For the coming years, too, international institutions predict the second lowest growth in Europe. For the past 30 years, we have never been so low on the international growth ladder. According to De Wever, this is because we have held up well in the crisis and because other countries that had fallen deeper are doing better now. A curious analysis, because all the countries that did better during the crisis are now performing better than we are. For example, Germany and Austria held up well during the crisis and they are clearly doing better than we are now." These are the words of economist Gert Peersman of Ghent University. The master plan has turned out to be a disaster plan, Prime Minister. Indeed, taxes on labour have been reduced by a tax shift in a tax shift that has not even been financed. You say tough in your government statement, "Show me the money." Well, I'll show you. Billions of transfers from Flanders to Wallonia, here's the money. Billions of euros from Belgium to the European Union, here is the money. On average EUR 188 million per year alone is spent on living wages for asylum seekers, here is the money. This is an increase of 135 % in five years, more than one fifth of the total Belgian living wage budget. The cost of an asylum seeker is up to EUR 2 250 per asylum seeker per month. Here is the money . I could go on like this for a while, but in the meantime it is clear to everyone that this great change has not come about socio-economically. There is no need to be an economist for that. There was only disappointment, disappointment. Unfortunately, these disappointments are not confined to economic and social policy. The self-praised migration policy is also one of hollow words. Global immigration pressure has not been reduced. On the contrary, it has increased. Last year, the number of new immigrants rose to just under 140 000, the second highest since the start of the census. Family reunification remains the main immigration channel. Last year there were no less than 52 066 people. As the government has failed to strengthen family reunification for asylum seekers, this increase will also continue. Return policy is failing across the board. The European Commission calculated the Belgian return rate last year at only 16.3 %, a figure that represents a place in the back of the European peloton. There is still a huge lack of capacity in closed return centres. The number of announcements about the creation of places in return centres is beginning to exceed the number of real places. Over the last four years, less than 200 additional places have been added, a figure which, by the way, has been galvanised in nothing compared to the 20 000 additional places that were added in just a few months during the full asylum crisis. While the number of asylum applications in Europe is falling by 44% last year, this figure in this country is rising by as much as 20% in the first nine months of this year. Belgium is increasingly becoming an attractive destination. It remains the path of the least resistance. This is not surprising, since the tightening of Belgian asylum and migration policies, unlike in several other countries in Europe, has so far been caught up in soothing talk, non-binding announcements and half-hearted measures. When Francken claims that he has made progress, colleagues, he talks about a feeling of progress that was created in perception and on Twitter. Actually, that's the same feeling as who's on a stationary train, while next to it there's another train. In any case, the figures show a deterioration. As far as immigration and asylum policy are concerned, there is therefore no change, but disappointment and disappointment. Security is not one of the government's five priorities for the next seven months. The opposite would be surprising, given the lax justice policy pursued by the government over the past four years, where criminals still get out of prison faster than they get in. The emphasis is on savings and the depopulation of prisons. Punishment policy has become a penalty discharge policy, full of penitentiary engagements and ridiculous ankle straps. That policy of impunity was again painfully illustrated yesterday. A man who was convicted 18 times for driving without a driver's license, five times for driving despite a driving ban, who drove a 12-year-old girl to death in the built-up area at 85 kilometers an hour and was sentenced to five years of effective imprisonment, was in between already released because he lied about a serious disease and was effectively released last week after less than two years of those five years with an ankle bracelet. Unfortunately, he's not a single case. As far as justice policy is concerned, therefore, there is no change, but disappointment and disappointment. Colleagues, what is important is what the Prime Minister did not say in his policy statement. Tough files are being kept silent, so we certainly cannot expect any more of them. There is no longer any mention of ARCO, the flight routes above Zaventem, about the new migration code promised to us by Secretary of State Francken, about the bill on residences in illegal immigrants. All these subjects are going into the fridge that is already overcrowded. There is, of course, no mention of the Community problem in the policy statement either. No one's expecting that anymore. The latest mention was one sentence in the 2015 policy statement, when the Prime Minister stated in threatening tone that federal loyalty had to be honored. Today, and for many years now, the Community Omerta has been applied with such unsurprising ease by the N-VA, that a reminder of this is no longer necessary in the policy statement. Less than two weeks ago, in the hemisphere, a motion of recommendation from me was voted down by all of you, particularly you, colleagues in the N-VA. In that motion, I asked Minister Jambon to have the language legislation applied in the Brussels local services. The situation there is deteriorating year after year. Last year, the proportion of appointments, appointments and promotions in the Brussels OCMWs that violate the language law in administrative matters amounted to as much as 94 %. We will be at the bottom of that pace next year. What else needs to be done before the responsible Minister of the Interior, as the competent authority, intervenes in the language legislation in Brussels to put an end to this shame for many years? What's to stop him from simply applying an existing law of public order? What is to prevent him from taking control of the incivian Brussels government and entrusting it to a body that does the job it has to do in a democratic constitutional state? I question Jan Jambon about it every year, but he has been as passive as a rabbit for four years. Apparently, it is not bad enough that his so-called Flemish nationalist party is making language situations worse and even rotting, and the government itself is causing the decline in language in its legislation. We have seen this in the last parliamentary year with the complete erosion of language law in court cases. Speaking of disappointment and disappointment! Only in two circumstances does the N-VA show up again: either far away abroad, when it comes to Catalans, Basques or Scots; or when it comes to something long ago, at a commemoration of Leuven Flemish. Today, in their own country, they no longer dare to speak the word 'independence'. Last week in the French-speaking press, Theo Francken said that an independent Flanders is unrealistic. He has thus changed his mind completely compared to four years ago. But that's probably the power of change. Also for Ben Weyts, who has already said this rapper, confederalism can be a terminal. In doing so, both gentlemen bravely go to war against Article 1 of their own party constitution. I would like to thank Francken and Weyts for the twisting, because it is now clear to everyone that there is only one independence party in Flanders. Colleagues, I come to my conclusion. Belgium is a two-way country. The only flows we are sure of in this country are the flow of money from Flanders to Wallonia and the flow of immigration. We are not under any illusions: for these flows, the government has no exit plan. The Prime Minister was quite right yesterday in his declaration of government on one matter, namely that too often people fall into the trap of fake news. Prime Minister, if we then check on your opinion the socio-economic results and the figures on asylum and migration, we can see that the result is very clear: you have made the issue of fake news your main task for four years. The good news that this government is putting up is totally out of line with the figures and is not in line with reality. Flemish interest will certainly not give this government the confidence of the disappointment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Pas. Mrs Wouters has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u205	Mr President, Prime Minister, who seems to have disappeared, Ministers, the rest of the government is there. I was a little surprised. I had noted in my agenda that I would be here tomorrow and that I could have listened to the State of the Union, the government statement this afternoon. That was the way it was planned, and that is what it says in the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. So we assumed, but no, suddenly it was a day earlier. A day earlier, we were allowed to hear the government statement, the State of the Union, here. It was Prime Minister Michel's last declaration of government this legislature. At the same time, this is my last reaction to the last government statement of this legislature. We do not know what it will look like next time, which depends on the voter. A day earlier, that's never happened before. Later. According to the Constitution and the laws in force, this is not really a problem, but in the past, that is a different story. Later, that's happened before. This happened once under Mr Di Rupo and also under Mr Michel. If an agreement is not reached, it can be postponed. However, a day earlier had not yet happened. The reason why we are here a day earlier is because our Prime Minister must be present at the Francophony Summit in Armenia on Thursday. That would be just the moment when we are voting here on the motion of confidence in this government. The whole Parliament must then amend its agenda. I listened very carefully to that speech yesterday, to that declaration of government. Actually, to respond to it, I can bring up my text from last year or the year before, because there wasn't much news under the sun. The Prime Minister announced that the government will continue for seven months. Honestly, I always thought this government was gonna drop the ball sooner, so congratulations for those seven months. In those months to come, there will be five more priorities. That was pretty much the closing line of the speech. Is five priorities much or little? Anyway, we expected a lot of it. A great deal was also expected at the start of this government, because it was the first time that a government had time to change things for five years. We're going into that fifth year now. That fifth year is supposed to be a bonus year, right? I'm more afraid it's gonna be a malus year. The Prime Minister highlighted the following five priorities that the government will look at: the job deal with the Investment Pact, the Energy Strategy, investments in Defence, the management of migration and the future of our pensions. Strange, because once upon a time there were many other priorities. They may no longer appear on the list because after four years of government they are resolved or are in order. However, this is not the case: some priorities have simply disappeared from that list, although there is still no solution today. For example, the ARCO dossier is suddenly no longer a priority in the next seven months. At least the ARCO file cannot be classified under one of the five categories mentioned. I know it's just been said that it's gonna be a win-win situation, so maybe it's gonna come. Anyway, one day it was promised that it would be okay before the municipal elections. Unfortunately for CD&V that did not work, because it will not work by Sunday. The question arises as to whether the elections in May 2019 will succeed, because that is not so long. I also see announcements under the RER but also around connections to Charleroi airport. We hear all kinds of investment projects, but suddenly Zaventem has disappeared from the map. Zaventem and her escape routes are no longer mentioned. The same story applies to the migration code. The procedures would be adapted. The declaration still states "management of migration" as one of the priorities. However, we have not found out whether this includes an amendment to the procedures or to the migration code. There was also the top priority with which we started four years ago, in particular the balance of the budget. The budgetary balance has shifted over and over again. What do we see? Nor will we make it with the highest priority, for which everything had to move forward. Socio-economic would be ruled. The budget would be fine. We would achieve a balance in 2017 or 2018. I don't know where we're going to land, but it's always being postponed. We should not be cheerful about the debt either. It could be said that we are almost at 100 % and that, provided we have a few technical tricks, we may be below 100 %. I won't have that discussion. However, I do not know whether we should be so happy with the fact that we belong to the 100 % group. I thought the target was 60%. We are also far removed from that percentage. However, it would have been possible to bring down a lot of the debt. After all, interest rates have never been so low. The fall in interest rates and the resources released could have been used perfectly for this purpose. However, they were not used for this purpose. They have now been used to reduce the budget deficit. I hear the Prime Minister saying that the budget deficit has been reduced three times over the whole of the government. We go from 2.2% to 0.6%. We will not repeat all the figures and all the reports here. After all, it remains one big discussion. However, I know someone who has often been right in his predictions in recent years, namely the chairman of the Finance Committee. You announced today, Mr Van Rompuy, that the first fact check may be carried out on the Prime Minister's statements on 0.6%. I'm curious. You've been right before. Over the next few weeks and months, the budget will be discussed and the figures will become increasingly clear, but it will of course remain a missed opportunity. I must admit, however, that the government has succeeded sublimely in one great priority which it had set itself, and there must be one, in particular the Community's standstill. There has been a great success in terms of the Community's standstill. We are talking almost no longer of a standstill, but of a decline. This would lead to socio-economic progress, to a balanced budget and so on. The reality is much less. Look at the file on the RIZIV numbers. I will not repeat everything Mrs Pas has already said, but I am also thinking of the language legislation in Brussels and the language law in court cases. A number of Members can support us in saying that, in view of all this, there has not been a Community standstill, but a Community decline. Let us now look at the five priorities and the jobs. I admit, Prime Minister, that more jobs have been added, that there is more growth, that unemployment has fallen. I see the figures, and they are correct, but we also need to compare Belgium with other European countries. We don't do much better on those lists anyway. We're going after something. I don't know if we should be so proud of that. If I look at the other countries that have also endured the crisis well and compare them with our country, they are doing remarkably better. So I can only conclude that what is happening now, job growth, economic growth and the decline in unemployment, is not solely due to your policy. It is simply a general trend that has also occurred in the other countries. Compared to a number of key countries with which we have to compare, Belgium is doing worse. Your second priority, a very important one, is the energy strategy. Isn't it just tossed off the pot thinking that next month we might suddenly run out of power? We're not a backward country, are we? We are a civilized and prosperous country. There are plenty of technicians and technicians, and then this country would run out of power? You can't be proud of that, can you? The situation has to do with policy. You claim to solve it and to ensure that we do not run out of power. You took the phone and called Aunt Angela Merkel. She'll help you. Wir purchase dass. We will see if we will buy it. The question is whether she will do it for free. In any case, let us all hope that we do not end up in that situation, because I do not think people will realise what would come to them if it came to that. The government had another comment. She will speak to ENGIE Electrabel, because it is not possible for taxpayers to pay when the costs will rise and the bill will have to be paid. That's very easy to say. Words, words, words. How will you do it? How will it happen in concrete terms? ENGIE also has agreements and commitments. First of all, a company is not allowed to sell at a loss. It is very simple to say that you will ensure that ENGIE Electrabel will pay that invoice, but I am not at all sure about that. Speaking of energy and electricity, I'm still wondering. We're almost in trouble right now, and we'd still have to switch to electric cars. Surely you are aware that we already have a problem if we were to replace all those dirty diesel cars whose use has become extremely expensive and switch them to electric cars? We wouldn't be driving by then. Maybe that's very good for the environment, but then nobody gets anywhere. The same problem applies to the construction of new houses. One has to isolate very well, but then a very good ventilation system is needed and that runs on electricity. If we don't pay attention, our homes won't get ventilated. Also, fossil fuels are no longer used and therefore heat pumps must be used. As a matter of fact, this also requires electricity. We therefore need to think very carefully before claiming that we are going to replace the current capacity. Some policy measures are in danger of being completely blocked, without electricity. Then there are also the solar panels, but they often don't work when there is no electricity. Moreover, no one knows what will happen to the solar panels at the end of their life cycle. At present they are all working, but what will they do if they have to be recycled within a number of years? So, please, let us not take unilateral measures in the field of energy policy. I'm getting to the Defense file. Prime Minister, whether it be the F-35 or not, I thought you had drawn this file to you. Normally the decision had to be published before the municipal elections, but it is postponed. I am also firmly convinced that we will not know before President Macron has visited. We will therefore have to wait for the decision to be taken. The question is, therefore, to what extent Parliament is excluded or involved in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u206	May I ask you to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u207	Yes, Mr President. I come to the fourth dossier, the migration problem. The return policy must be more effective, you said yourself. I can only confirm that. You don't want our country to become a transit route to Britain. I'm sorry, our country won't, because it already is. People who refuse to apply for asylum are illegally staying on our territory. I believe that the necessary laws already exist in this area, but they must be applied and the existing procedures must also be adapted. That was the intention, but we do not see anything of this in the current policy either. Prime Minister, I liked the fact that you called on young people to vote carefully and to be well informed. According to figures, one in four 18 to 23-year-olds no longer believes in democracy as the best form of government today. What can we conclude from that? How come one in four no longer believes in democracy? I think we ourselves are guilty of this. The policy is guilty if we never solve problems and point the finger at others or argue that we have no control over them, for example, because they are EU files or because refugees are fleeing. If politicians continue to shift their responsibilities and offer no solutions, then young people's faith in democracy will only decrease further. That is something we must all avoid together here. Prime Minister, you have seven months. Use them well. Make sure that many of your dossiers are dealt with and that the faith in democracy is restored.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u208	Prime Minister, yesterday you quoted Comrade Madiba (Nelson Mandela) - leader of the South African People's Front with the ANC - who, together with the class union COSATU, and the South African Communist Party, won the victory against Apartheid. This kind of reference affects me, and that is why I will begin this speech with a phrase from Comrade Madiba that touches me just as much and expresses his vision of society: "We should not judge a nation on how it treats its richest citizens, but on its attitude towards its poorest citizens." That is what Nelson Mandela was telling us and I believe that this quotation is now very meaningful. I believe that the policy you pursue and continue to pursue does not help the poorest. That's why she's helping the richest. This is a big problem because in recent weeks and months - I don't know if this kind of story gets to your ears - the suffering is great and that in many different sectors of society. The sectors we know, that is to say, all those young people who find themselves either in the CPAS or unemployed with periods of time which are longer and longer and ultimately excluded from work; but also, and I think this is increasing enormously, for citizens who have work and who express the fact that they can no longer do it. It will be my fundamental criticism of your policy today that you are closing all possible barriers so that people can leave this sector of work in a laid way, in order to be able to breathe and take care of their grandchildren, leaving room for the youngest. You've blocked pensions and early pensions. You have hunted the sick and you see that part of the population is suffering more and more from this policy you are pursuing. Let us first address the question of poverty, already mentioned earlier at the time of trade. I have taken up Statbel's painting here, which is quite clear. I heard my colleague De Roover say that there was a reduction in the risk of poverty. I have in my possession StatBel's tables of income poverty risk that are fairly clear and show an increase between 2012 and 2017 from 15.3 to 15.9 per cent. There is therefore an increase in income poverty in Belgium. It's very heavy. When it comes to child poverty, the numbers are even worse. In 2014, 11.4% of children lived in poverty, while today it is 13.8%. You said, "The boss asked me 12.9 billion, and I gave him 12.9 billion." Show me the money, I give you the money . Just ask. We had thought that if the people come to ask 700 million for VAT, show me the money, but there you do not answer I give you the money. We do not understand very well why you accede to the demands of the employers, but not the demands of the workers. So it's a gift of $12.9 billion, and I'll come back later on economic efficiency. Together with the PTB's office of study, we have done a study on the evolution of the share of wages and capital in cake, in gross national income, over the last three years. We expected to receive a response from the RM's study office, but we did not receive anything very suitable. I'm going to share our results with Mr. Miller; they show that in three years, between 2014 and 2017, the share of wages in gross national income decreased by 2.7%, or about nine billion euros. At the same time, the share of income from capital and profits of companies has increased by 3%, by some EUR 12 billion, exactly the amount, almost anything, that you boast about in your tax shift with regard to social contributions. In other words, the gifts (the $12.9 billion) offered as a drop in what you call, according to right-wing cultural hegemony, the employer's expenses – but let's call them what they are, that is, social contributions, that you want to pay, unlike employers' expenses – are found in the profits of businesses, which have never been as high as in the last thirty-two years. That is the problem, Minister. You are going to tell us that these 12.9 billion have created a lot of jobs, but we could calculate how much employment is going to cost. 12.9 billion gifts. The number of jobs created is estimated at about 219,000, or about (I counted for you) 58,904 euros per job, which is expensive per job. I think you would have done a lot better to invest in real jobs. If we look at the quality of the jobs (I took the tables from last year but I added them for a year) between the third quad 2014 and the second quad 2018, we get 45% of part-time jobs, 15% of temporary jobs and 40% of full-time jobs. The average is 4% of the company. So you produce a factor three to four times higher in acting work than the company average. We are talking about 45% part-time for an average of 26% in society. In other words, you double the number of part-time arrivals in the labour market. Therefore, it is clear that the quality of these jobs is not on the table, in our view. On the other hand, and above all, the cost is enormous. Who is going to make up for the 12.9 billion? This is an important issue. This is how I get to the question of pensions. Mr Bacquelaine is not present, but this is the only chapter that made me a little happy. Indeed, a large file should have been voted before the end of the legislature, but it was not included in the government statement. I'm talking about the point pension file. Bacquelaine felt you had to step back from the strength of the social movement. In doing so, this point pension that was announced in the government statement, which had been announced five times by the Minister of Pensions as a priority in this legislature, was not mentioned in your statement. You have thus decided, Prime Minister, to put the pension in the fridge in the face of the pressure – and I am delighted about it. It would have been quite unfair to vary the value of the point on the basis of macroeconomic criteria for which workers are not responsible, such as state debt or the average lifespan in our society. It is therefore a question of an important fight that has been won thanks to the demonstrations, thanks to the 70,000 people present on the street. And we hope to keep you back on other measures that you are going to put on the table in the weeks and months to come. Why is this pension issue important? Because the end of life is completely uneven. The main mistake of this government is to say that, as in general, life expectancy increases, all workers must work longer. But it should be noted that the difference in healthy life expectancy between a worker with a higher diploma and a worker without a diploma is in the range of 18 to 25 years. It's huge! There is a difference of 18 to 25 years in life in good health. I take that every day with my father's colleagues, a steel worker in Liège. He has finally been able to enjoy his retirement for four years, but more and more of his friends do not even enjoy it for four or five years because they have heart attacks, have back problems or suffer from severe stress. Every day people are seen to have worked their whole lives and at the end of their careers they no longer have this famous life expectancy of 16 or 17 years, which everyone is talking about. They are already dropping out before the end of their careers, and at the moment when they can finally retire, they are very sick. It touches me to see all my father's co-workers who have spent their entire lives, who are finally entitled to an early pension or a pre-pension and who can only benefit from it two or three years because they are worn to the rope. This is the major flaw of all your reasoning! If Mr Bacquelaine has to think about this today, it is because we are not equal in the face of death and it would be time to take it into account for pensions. You told us you were going to set up the career ends. You're talking about workable work, but the first thing you do is simply abolish the time loan between 55 and 60 years. Come on, that was a good method! I've met a lot of people who were tired of working and wanting to take time credits. At 55 years one could then work four fifths or half-time. However, you are abolishing all of that. What do people do? This is the basic reasoning, people get sick: 100,000 long-term patients in excess of 300,000, an increase of 25%. Do you meet those people who get sick like flies, those 100,000 more people who can't and get sick? That's the balance! What do you intend to do? Consider more support in companies! That's not the problem. The problem is that people died tired of the work they did in the companies. We're in one of the most productive economies in the world. We can be proud of this wealth produced, of this technology, of our scientists, of flexibility. But all this has a price on the body: 100,000 more sick! What will Mrs De Block do? We'll reactivate them! We're going to reactivate! We're going to put pressure and exercise control. Has anyone ever had that doctor-control visit? The doctor-control who looks at you to say, "You, you're acting. You have to go back to work." This is the story of hundreds of people who are under pressure to return to work. These are the figures of this government! As for these famous sick leave and the sick leave reform that you want to introduce on January 1, 2018 for civil servants, I do not understand. I do not understand that you want to ban officials from cumulating the twenty-one days of sick leave, whereas here, in the Chamber, everything can be postponed. For four and a half years, there is no problem, the salary continues to be paid. Colleagues, I have something really nice to offer you. Why not generalize the parliamentary system to the entire population? I think you're happy, too. When you're sick, we keep paying your salary. If you apply this philosophy to yourself, let's do it for the entire population! We can't make any more sense. When you're sick, you're already a victim of his illness. We're already in pain. I'm not talking about two or three days of illness. I'm talking to you, for example, about someone who has cancer. Long-term patients have a fight to fight. In our society, however, we find nothing better when someone is fighting the disease than to take 40 per cent of his salary away from him. Not only does he have to worry about the chemotherapy or the radiation therapy he receives, he must also find a solution to compensate for the 500 euros he lacks. It's still crazy! Another company would be the one where we help the person who is sick. We're not going to take him out of pay. And as the same system applies to the whole House, let us generalize it to the whole population! It seems to me quite consistent, quite logical. But, obviously, what can be really logical for the whole population is not here, which I find regrettable! Let's talk a little bit about the jobs that are in short supply. Ah! This is the great problem of our economy: the trades in need! Let us first recall these first figures: 140 000 vacancies, 150 000 unemployed people! Let us share in a small calculation, ladies and gentlemen! In any case, 210,000 people do not have access to work. So let's stop saying that shortage is our main problem! No, the main problem is always "jobs, jobs, jobs"! But if we were to analyse a little the reasons why certain trades are in short supply. First job in short supply in Flanders: call centers. The first bottleneck profession in Flanders is working for a call centre. Has anyone ever worked for a call center? I suggest you go to work for a call center day. Ten seconds of break between each call, 1 250 euros per month. I make a small poll: who wants to go to work for 1 250 euros a month, eight hours a day, by phoneing constantly to sell products to people who don't want it, with ten seconds of break between each call? Who wants to do it? It's not okay. You don't want to do it and find that everyone in our company should say, "I'm going to activate to go call center." The first reason is the quality of the jobs: 1 250 euros a month to go to work eight hours a day. I have friends working in call center. They have a headache on their way out by harassing people all day long for products that you are asked to sell, for after-sales service that is not guaranteed, etc. Second reason: companies do not find people trained to measure. Wait, that hasn't always been the case. When you enter a company, you're trained. What does that mean? Now, companies want a workforce that is tailored to the needs of the community. Training centres are currently training young people to work on only one machine in a given company. The day this plant closes, they lose that skill. Let the employer train the people he hires himself! Let us stop believing that the public service alone must do so! What is this job shortage? If bosses want tailor-made training themselves! The third and final problem is the lack of a diploma. It is interesting to note, for example, that the shortage is manifest among doctors, but that this is where we will apply a numerus clausus. I find this debate on trades in short supply very interesting, because it illustrates very well the weight of this reserve army described by Marx. Minister of Finance, I can quote Marx. It's a relevant reference. He explained how the reserve army put pressure on the labour goods sold by workers who had no choice to sell it because they had no means of production. The more we activate the unemployed, the more we activate the long-term sick, the more pressure there will be on the wages of the employed. The FEB is not afraid of class discourse, it accepts that there is a class struggle. She understood who was running her government. The FEB is afraid of what it calls "wage stress", that is, if this unemployment rate falls too much, there is an increase in wages. It's the law of the economy. You know very well that this activation is not going to create a job but it will create pressure on the commodity "labour force" to aim for an enrichment of large companies, and therefore large families! There are more or less 8 to 9,000 new millionaires in euros per year in Belgium. Let's stop saying this is the crisis for everyone! Not at all! We have never had so many rich people in Belgium, and this continues to increase! Let's talk about energy. How have we come to a situation where we are not sure we have power in Europe? It's a technology that we've mastered for a century, we're still able to guarantee that. Here, the minister tells us that she's not sure we'll have power. Minister, you said in 2014 that there was a real shortage problem and that you wanted to tackle it. Four years later, we're nowhere! I hear the minister saying "we did it." So we solved the shortage problem, but we won't have electricity! It's hard to understand. The government doesn't produce electricity, that's the problem, minister! Finally, a liberal minister who understood the basic problem: the government does not produce energy! You're right, I'm also living it as a problem. You can't do anything because everything is decided by a multinational that has more power than all of you together! You even told us in committee that in order to get an ENGIE phone call, you were obliged to speak to the French Secretary of State! You really put your finger on the problem. We have no control over our energy production I think, Madam Minister, that, as you said the problem was there, we need to think about the socialization of the sector's means of production. Exactly, as Marx said. We've got to get Marx back. Nationalization would take place on a national basis. This idea was born after the Second World War. Marx has always spoken of a socialization of the means of production, Prime Minister. Why? I see you're a little interested in Marxism, exactly. I'll explain it to you. He opposed this socialization of the means of production to the fact that work is increasingly socialized in our society. More and more workers work for large companies. For the first time in our history, we have companies that hire 200 to 300,000 people! We've never known such a concentration of power. Let's take the energy sector. We were promised mountains and wonders. Liberalization of the energy sector, voted in 1999-2000, would create competition and create small players that would bring down prices. It is the fable of the free market that creates many new players. What happened? Marx had described it very well: this free market concentrates the means of production in the hands of an increasingly small number of companies, which buy the small ones. In the energy sector, Madam Minister – you will be able to negotiate with the capitalists you know – it has happened in ten years since the liberalisation of the sector. Madam Minister, you'll see. You opened a door earlier on the big problem of Belgium which does not produce its own energy. I'm going to push the thought a little further. 247 mergers took place in the energy sector across Europe. There are still seven large companies that control the entire electrical energy market. Seven! We all depend on these multinational companies that have swallowed all the small ones. You have nothing to tell them. You can't tell them anything. You find that the ceiling is collapsing. They didn't even keep you informed. I don't know how it goes with you, but in my house, if a crack starts to appear in my ceiling, I see it and I decide to go put a little plaster on. It shouldn't fall on us. Here, no, it's falling! Electrabel does not even keep you informed of the ABC of the information. Perhaps it makes you laugh what people are going to live: they are going to pay 150 euros a month, Madam Minister! You know the situation is very problematic. I think that, rather than always admitting your impotence, it is really important to regain this control over the sector by investing decisively, with all possible added value, in the renewable sector against which we are quite behind the peloton. Mr President, I'm not going to be much longer. I always say that before I finish but, in fact, I still have a couple more things to tell. I think there is a real software problem in this government, but somewhere that makes sense. You've decided to fight hard for the richest classes in our society. I really hope that in the coming months there will be a popular movement. I feel like it's working and thinking. You're already talking about the big night, but, one day, it's coming! I really think that people's anger - you also feel it - is rising more and more. People first thought that with a few social movements, we would listen to them a minimum. I believe that an increasing mass of the population realizes that the political world does not listen to it and that it must take its own fate into its own hands, either in the electoral mobilization this Sunday - we will obviously see the scores - or by the social movement, Madam Minister. You have no warrant to offer a pension at age 67. This was not on the agenda of any of your parties. So your warrant is zero! You have no mandate in this regard. For this type of measure, I really hope that, in the weeks and months ahead, the popular movement, which has managed to push Mr Bacquelaine back on his point pension, will resume the fight for the question of time credits, for the question of a reduction of VAT to 6%, for a halt to the hunt for the long-term sick, for a socialisation of this energy sector because we are tired of "dowing" constantly for Electrabel and for an urgent ecological transition. I think that, throughout Europe, a real bottom blade can develop with people who are really going to lead this fight and make you back, not only once like Mr Bacquelaine, but certainly five to six times before the end of the legislature so that we can regain confidence in ourselves and win tomorrow's victories.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u209	Prime Minister, this is the fifth time I have heard your government statement. As always, it is rather a declaration of intent because, in practice, it is very little followed by effects. We could take it back point by point, but I will stick to some major chapters. As far as security is concerned, Prime Minister, the feeling of insecurity has never been so important to the population. I want to point out that in the communal elections that are coming, all parties are making this a matter of concern. Police zones operate in understaffed areas in Wallonia and Brussels. The tasks of agents and inspectors are ever more substantial and dangerous. They are very little valued, if not often scratched, when a highly publicized fact has occurred. They manage to try to avoid interventions in the light of the lack of support they receive from their hierarchy. Your great preventive theories could only work if substantial budgets were made available, which unfortunately is not the case. We want to make them specialists, while they are generalists on a day-to-day basis. They cover an area far too high and cannot be everywhere at the same time. Community workers should resolve neighbourhood and home problems while closely monitoring the population at risk. This is dichotomous, especially since their service usually ends at the moment when this fringe of the population begins to move. Anyway, it's a complete failure! It is high time to return to fundamentals and leave each of them in its initial missions. The integrated, two-tiered police force is sufficient to demonstrate its inability to respond to the demands of citizens, who would like more security instead of your reckless migration policy. It is essential to review the entire structure of the police, whose budgets are heavy. We can do better with the same thing. Another subject is energy policy. This summer, we ran out of water. This winter, we'll be running out of electricity. Prime Minister, with this idiom, you put your energy minister into embarrassment, to the point that she tweets anything. How do you want ENGIE Electrabel to invest again in nuclear power, while the first shutdowns of power plants are planned in 36 months? What is the multinational that would still invest under such conditions? There is a real increase in our energy need, and you are insisting on trying not to displease this left led by the ecologists who want to give everything to the renewable, which is supposed to create jobs and protect the planet. You find yourself facing an uncomfortable dilemma. To get out of nuclear power is not to comply with the Paris Agreements, because inevitably your carbon dioxide production will grow. Take the example of Germany, which, by the way, has the nerve to force our plants to close their doors in the face of the risk of an incident, but which sends us its production of carbon dioxide by burning lignite in its coal-fired plants. Moreover, you cannot quantify the cost of leaving nuclear power, both for you and for the citizens who will see their electricity bills increase considerably. I don't even dare think about the economic repercussions. Potential investors will no longer move to Belgium if the cost of energy is not stabilized; labour costs are already very high compared to the European average. It is urgent, Prime Minister, to adopt an energy policy adapted to the 21st century. I'm coming to justice. This is a matter that has been constantly evolving since 2014 and remains just as ill. You've removed the court of seats; we're going to reinstate it. You legislate severely and absurdly for weapons, and you develop the parallel market. This is proof that you are working in spite of common sense. Many citizens no longer have confidence in your justice. They believe that it is at several speeds and that they, the real victims, are sometimes considered suspects because they defend the fruit of their work. You are boasting figures such as the decrease in the prison population, while we are in the lead in cases of recidivism and legal recidivism. Some criminals are not reinsurable; you must dare to say so. Some criminals have nothing to do with us; they must return to their country of origin as soon as possible and not stay in prison at the expense of the citizens, even though they have already done so much harm to our society. Not only must the right measures be taken downstream of crimes and offences, but also upstream. Some subjects will only understand if they are under the threat of punishment. It is unusual for self-defence to be taken into account only for individuals and not for their property. You are thus obliged to contract very expensive theft insurance which covers only part of the damage. Of course, justice must be reformed but not just how and not at any cost. Another important issue, Prime Minister, is immigration. The subject par excellence. The subject of ongoing social networks, citizens and politics. I don't exclude myself. The subject that still sells a certain press in total rubbish. A highly subsidized, fed press that no longer knows where to lead, to the point of editing photomontages, or even interpreting world events in its own way. In the meantime, what happens to Belgium under this migratory pressure? What is still the importance of the Belgian citizen in the face of these migrants? Here too, you are using figures that actually show a certain inertia of this government in this matter. Because, even though the left often climbs to the niche with very hard words and caricatures sometimes approaching the crime, you are less good than your predecessor, Prime Minister Di Rupo. Of course, you have amended the 1980 Act on many occasions. But with what effects in reality? Pretty sucky, isn't it? People always sleep in tents in public parks. There is always so much insecurity in the cities once the night falls. Some former ministers housed migrants in hotels at taxpayers' expense, for the good cause of solidarity! You, you deport families from social housing to put them there. It's no more glorious. Some of you will tell me that this is perhaps a cultural wealth, perhaps philosophical but certainly not financial, when you see the direct and indirect costs of uncontrolled immigration. These include health care figures, CPAS figures, or operating costs of your administrations. It is staggering when a third of Belgians are at the poverty line and some workers perceive less than new arrivals! I accept that Europe is playing an unhealthy role in this regard. But then, Prime Minister, get back to sovereignty as soon as possible because we are running for disaster. Mr President, Prime Minister, I will conclude by saying that I have repeatedly said before this mandate that your reforms were in the right direction but that they were not deep enough. It takes political courage to save a country and sometimes dare to oppose certain European directives or even ideologies, without succumbing to the temptation of electoral clientelism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u210	Can we just leave it at that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-09-54-plenair-ip249x.u211	Then we can close this meeting with this. We'll retake tomorrow at 15:15. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 10 October 2018 at 3.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday, 10 October 2018, at 3.15 p.m.
