ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u1	Mr President, my two questions have been joined, which I think is quite logical. As is well known, UNRWA is a United Nations agency primarily aimed at supporting education programmes for the Palestinian population. First, I will address the issue of the suspension of cooperation with Palestinian schools. It would appear that the budgets allocated to the construction of schools by our country will be suspended even though Belgium will remain active in the Palestinian territories as part of its contribution to UNRWA. Last year, a school financed by Belgium changed its name to Dalal Mughrabi, a Palestinian activist who had taken part, in 1978, in hostage-taking on a bus that had cost the lives of 38 Israelis. Belgium then took steps with the Palestinian authorities to cancel the name change. What follow-up has been provided? Will this decision to suspend lead, in any way, to budgetary consequences this year and next year? Will our bilateral cooperation through UNRWA be affected? Will budgets be suspended or reoriented? Let me turn to my question concerning UNRWA in particular. As we know, several acts of the Trump administration undermine any resumption of the Middle East peace process. Further decisions could further aggravate the situation. As a reminder, UNRWA is the United Nations agency that takes care of the needs of Palestinian refugees throughout the Middle East, some 5 million registered refugees, who can benefit from the education provided by the Agency's workers, health care and social assistance. On August 3, the US foreignpolicy.com site broadcasted the content of emails sent by President Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner, who was tasked with setting up a peace plan on the Israeli-Palestinian issue. In these, he announces that he wants to "disturb" this agency for which, already on 16 January last, the United States had announced an annual budget reduction of 125 million to 60 million dollars, or more than half in less. Minister, can you provide me with our country's 2018 assessment of UNRWA funding? What will be the Belgian position if the information disclosed in the press is confirmed, particularly within the UN, which the General Assembly met last September? Finally, is a concerted position being developed within the European Union, particularly in terms of funding for this agency, whose essential role is no longer to be demonstrated?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, Belgium remains a financial, political and institutional support for UNRWA in its essential role as a provider of services and protection for Palestinian refugees. In the absence of a comprehensive, just and lasting solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, Belgium recognizes that the Agency's mandate remains vital. At the beginning of the year, our country renewed its three-year funding of €18.75 million for UNRWA. The first tranche was quickly paid in order to assist the Agency in the further implementation of its programme. This year, our support amounted to EUR 14.15 million, an increase of 2.9 million compared to 2017. These include €6.25 million in budget support, €4 million for education in Gaza, €2 million for food aid operations in Gaza and €750,000 for intervention in Lebanon and Jordan. Of these EUR 14.15 million, EUR 11 million comes from the Cooperation budget, 2 million from the Foreign Affairs budget and 1.15 million from the Flemish Region. In 2017, our country was ranked seventeenth on the list of non-ante-five contributors. The European Union and its Member States collectively provided almost half of UNRWA's budget. Belgium is coordinating with European positions, as it has done in recent consultations on UNRWA funding, with the following considerations in mind. It is first necessary to increase contributions, expand the number of donors and seek innovative financing. Second, it is important to improve the efficiency of the organization by focusing on its core mandate. Finally, there is a need to seek synergies with other actors and United Nations organizations, which could resume activities that are not part of this main mandate. Last September, on the margins of the United Nations General Assembly, the High Representative of the European Union, Federica Mogherini, co-chaired a ministerial meeting on UNRWA. The European Union reaffirmed its political and financial support. For example, the European Commission has announced an additional €40 million. With regard to our support for the Palestinian Ministry of Education, Belgium adheres to the principled position that any form of glorification of terrorism is unacceptable, whatever the circumstances. This position has been communicated to the Palestinian authorities on several occasions. After a year of intensive dialogue with the Palestinian Authority, no acceptable solution could be found regarding the name of the school in the village of Beit Awwa. It is true that the school built with the support of Belgium, which had been named after a terrorist, regained its original name. But at the same time, two other schools in the village were named in reference to the same terrorist. Although the Palestinian Authority had agreed to change the name of the school whose construction had been financed by Belgium, by renaming other schools as Dalal Mughrabi, it had ignored essential values to which Belgium attached particular importance, including respect for human rights, human dignity and tolerance. I have therefore decided to suspend cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Higher Education of the Palestinian Authority. My representations to the Minister of Education resulted, not in the disappearance of the schools named after the name of the terrorist, but on the contrary, in the doubling of these schools. Belgium will nevertheless remain a partner in cooperation with the Palestinian people and will not suspend cooperation with the Palestinian Authority. Our intention is in no way to reduce the means provided for supporting the development of the Palestinian population. In the training sector, Belgium is exploring new opportunities for cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Youth, linked to e-learning, technical and vocational education and entrepreneurial skills. In this context, a reallocation of the budget originally planned for cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Higher Education was accepted at the joint ministerial committee on 7 November which my colleague Didier Reynders, the Palestinian Foreign Minister Riyad al-Maliki and I co-chaired. In addition, the Belgian Government will give priority to supporting the strengthening of human rights, in particular those of women and children, and to assisting in the development of the private sector, by promoting digital entrepreneurship for young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u3	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I am pleased to note that the means will reach the Palestinian civilian population, which seems to me to be the essential part of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u4	Mr President, Minister, these two questions were merged because they relate to issues that are closely linked. The first question concerns the financial aspect of the EU Trust Fund, the second concerns its impact. In addition, both questions build on your answers and comments on this issue. I have asked you several times about both the funding and the impact of the policy. In your answers, you've hammered the same thing on several occasions. As far as financing is concerned, you specifically said that there would be a waiting period for the evaluations to be made available before Belgium would reinvest in the fund itself. You have also tried to reassure me by saying that human rights policy, a pillar of our development policy, is respected, despite our support for the EU Trust Fund. However, over EUR 500 million from the European Development Fund was transferred to the EU Trust Fund last summer, before the evaluations were completed. While the Third Party Monitoring is still missing, the UNHCR is no longer welcome even in the centres run by the recognised Libyan government. You may say that Belgium insists on the importance of human rights in the operational committees, but there is virtually no monitoring or this is the case on the ground. This can hardly be called a decisive human rights policy. My questions relate to both the financial aspect and the impact. Has Belgium approved this EUR 500 million development money investment in the EU Trust Fund? If so, will this not break your promise to stop investing in the EU Trust Fund without the evaluations being available? How do you frame the systematic human rights violations, both directly by the Libyan Coast Guard and the Libyan detention centres, in Belgian donor policy and the importance you attach to human rights? Do you consider other steps necessary, given that, after two years of European support for the Libyan Coast Guard and the various comments made in the operational committees, there is still no systematic and independent monitoring of the Libyan Coast Guard? What is your response to the UNHCR's scepticism to focus even more on the North African countries as implementing European migration policy? How can UNHCR carry out its mission to protect people on the run if it is denied access to detention centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u5	Mr President, the decision to transfer European Development Funds to the EU Trust Fund was taken at the European Council of Heads of State or Government on 27 and 28 June 2018. Belgium has also agreed to this. In order to implement the decision of the European Council, the European Commission has used the implementing provisions of the 11th European Development Fund, which means that Member States are only consulted afterwards. During this ex-post consultation, my administration reminded me of the concerns it has always raised during meetings of the decision-making bodies of the Trust Fund. Belgium has, from the start, supported the creation of the emergency trust fund as one of the instruments for implementing the Valletta Joint Action Plans. Belgium is committed to a human rights-based approach. With regard to the management of the instruments, Belgium remains particularly alert to good governance. In this context, Belgium reiterated its wish to be informed as soon as possible of the Court's recommendations and performance audit. Finally, in terms of implementation, Belgium remains particularly alert to achieving the results of the programme, its sustainability and its impact. Therefore, Belgium has shown interest in participating in the evaluation, planned for 2019. With regard to the situation in the Libyan camps, Belgium condemns any violation of human rights against migrants in Libya or elsewhere as well as any form of impunity. Belgium stands for an approach that promotes full respect for human rights and takes into account the do-no-harm principle. I do not need to remind you of the political context and the specific security situation in Libya. In this difficult context, Belgium continued to support initiatives that contribute to strengthening the rights of migrants and local communities in Libya, as well as initiatives aimed at capacity building. This is the principle of a human rights-based approach, which I support. Belgium's support for these initiatives is implemented through a series of programmes financed by the European Union for a total amount of EUR 191 million. These include interventions by the specialised UN organisations such as the High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Organisation for Migration, UNICEF and UNDP, as well as international NGOs such as the Danish Refugee Council of Save the Children and local civil society organisations. The intervention for integrated border management and migration management in Libya was adopted in July 2017 and started in January 2018. The capacity building of the Libyan Coast Guard is one of the components of the programme. In view of the sensitive context, Belgium has argued in favour of setting up a strict monitoring system, led by a third party. This request, which has been sent by several Member States, has been considered by the European Commission, which is looking for the most relevant organisations. In addition, the European Union has developed an additional monitoring tool, the Results-Oriented Monitoring, a monitoring and evaluation tool that allows independent experts in the field to evaluate the relevance, effectiveness, potential impact and sustainability of the programme. That monitoring system will be launched in early 2019 for the intervention on integrated border management and migration management in Libya. Since the first revelations, more than a year ago, about the inhuman treatment of migrants in Libya, Belgium has argued, both through the European Union and bilaterally, that the Libyan authorities should step up their efforts to improve the protection of human rights, in particular of the most vulnerable. We believe that detention centres in Libya should be closed down in the long term. In the meantime, we call on the Libyan authorities to give the relevant UN organisations unhindered access to all detention centres so that these organisations can increase their assistance and improve the living conditions of migrants and refugees. The latest flash report by the High Commissioner for Refugees gives an update on the progress made by the High Commissioner's teams in the field. For example, the report states that the High Commissioner has visited more than 1 000 detention centres and that 2 105 refugees and asylum seekers have been released from those detention centres. The same report states that in the last year a total of just over 3 000 refugees and asylum seekers received different assistance and assistance: 930 of them were resettled in a third country, 2 082 migrants were evacuated from Libya to Niger, Italy and Romania.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but it was very difficult. I had two questions. You know that the whole package and migration policy are very important to us. I will read your answer carefully, but it is a fact that the detention centres in Libya, as you said, are unworthy of human dignity. I'm glad you acknowledge that. It is also a fact that these centres exist because Europe has pursued a certain inhumane migration policy. Moreover, it is a fact that migration policy, including cooperation with the militias that present themselves as coastguards, has been created by cooperation with Europe. Europe needs to exercise much more control over this, so that with European money we no longer allow and do not support the current situation. We must not constantly tolerate this situation. These are facts, which are also reflected in the various reports we have already received. If we are to have a humane migration or asylum policy, we must look at the EU Trust Fund with a magnifying glass and, above all, look at where all the resources are going. It is also claimed that it can address the root cause of migration, but I do not believe in it; rather, I believe in the opposite. The whole situation is inhumane. We must send a clear signal from here that it is not possible for Belgium to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u7	Minister, in Uganda, the government has drawn up a plan to introduce compulsory AIDS tests in schools. According to the government, these tests would help to accelerate people's awareness of the dangers of HIV infection and encourage already infected people to take medicines. The proposal is criticised by lawyers who see it as a violation of Ugandan privacy law, while health specialists from Uganda and UNAIDS fear that this will increase the stigma that people already have with HIV. According to the health specialists, these tests may even discourage people from going to school. The Ugandan Ministries of Health and Gender, which defend the plan, have not yet released any details about the budget. Since 80% of the HIV budget in Uganda comes from donors, they should be consulted. Uganda is a partner country of Belgium and we work with Uganda on the themes of education and health care. Belgium also has a long tradition of commitment to HIV-thematics in sub-Sahara. Minister, has the Ugandan authorities already addressed Belgium about the proposal for compulsory HIV testing in schools? If so, what is your response and how do you deal with that proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u8	Belgium was not called upon to propose mandatory HIV testing in schools. However, we hear from the UNAIDS Country Office in Kampala that a group of civil society organisations met with the Minister of Gender after media attention for mandatory HIV testing. The minister stated that she was wrongly quoted and stated that she did not believe in the mandatory imposition of HIV tests. In order to promote voluntary HIV testing under professional guidance and to promote the sharing of information and results with children's parents, the Minister intends to coordinate the dialogue between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. It also proposed to chair the committee which was formed and which will meet on a quarterly basis. UNAIDS does not support the mandatory HIV testing of individuals based on public health considerations. HIV testing must always be carried out with respect for personal choice and respect for ethical principles and human rights principles. Uganda endorsed a consolidated World Health Organisation Directive on services providing HIV testing. That Directive includes, inter alia, the following principles: the freedom of choice regarding testing, the confidentiality of results, professional guidance and framework before and after testing, the guarantee of the accuracy of results after testing, the link between testing and HIV prevention, treatment and care with support services. However, the bill contains other very problematic points. Sex work, sexual behaviour between people of the same sex and sexual behaviour between adolescents under 18 years of age are punishable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u9	Minister, we are not involved and therefore not aware of this, but I hope that you will continue to follow closely AIDS policy in Uganda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u10	Mrs Grovonius, you have the floor for your question No 26771 on "support for contraceptives in the context of international development cooperation".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u11	Mr. Chair, Minister, I will turn this question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u12	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u13	Minister, Belgium has been working for years to eliminate landmines from the world. It signed the International Convention against Landmines in 1997 as one of the first countries, two years after it itself banned the use, production and trade by law. It was thus a global pioneer in the struggle for a world without landmines. Unfortunately, more than 20 years later, landmines continue to be victims. Whole regions remain dangerous for humans and animals because of abandoned mines. Countries such as Laos, Angola and Mozambique, where so many civilian victims have already been killed during terrible wars, have hundreds of new mutilated as a result of landmines every year. According to the annual report of Land Mine Monitor, 2016 was a particularly tragic year, with 8 605 victims of whom 2 089 were deadly. According to that report, one of the reasons for this high figure was the global decline in funds and the focus on the problem. It is therefore striking that, despite a global decline in interest, the United Kingdom has just pledged £46 million. That money will be used to clean up landmines and to organise information for children in the most dangerous regions of the region, a hopeful signal for those countries for which this is not yet a past, but a bitter reality. I have the following questions, Minister. The Belgian partner countries Mozambique, Vietnam and Congo are among the countries with the most victims. The number of victims is also increasing in partner country Mali. Can you explain to me what support Belgium offers in this and other partner countries on the issue of land mines? The global decline in interest and funds has been identified as an important factor in the increasing number of victims. What role can Belgium play to keep the issue high on the humanitarian agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u14	Mrs Pehlivan, the fight against the use of landmines and support for victims remains an important issue for Belgium. Belgian funding for landmines and victim support is granted on the basis of the effective needs in the project proposals of our partners. In 2018, Belgium will finance projects in Chad, Colombia, Mali, Cambodia and Iraq for a total of 2 430 000 euros. For this purpose, Belgium cooperates with various humanitarian and non-humanitarian organisations, including ICRC, Handicap International, MAG and Apopo. The projects support assistance to victims of landmines, cluster munitions and so-called explosive remnants of war. It includes rehabilitation activities for persons with disabilities as well as activities related to mine clearance and decommissioning. Belgium also draws the map of innovation and supports, among other things, a project by Handicap International in Chad that uses drones to identify suspicious areas that may have been contaminated. In addition, Belgium contributes to the International Campaign to Ban Landmines, to promote a landmine and cluster munitions free world through research in affected countries and local support for effective demining and assistance to victims, amounting to €60,000. Furthermore, Belgium currently holds the Presidency of the Committee on Victim Assistance, of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on their Destruction, known as the Ottawa Convention. Finally, Belgium contributes to the overall resources of the International Red Cross Committee of EUR 8.5 million per year. The ICRC is operationally present in the areas affected by armed conflicts and in other situations of the world. The organisation plays a crucial role in the implementation of international humanitarian law and supports numerous interventions linked to landmines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Continuing attention to this issue remains necessary. Every person who is mutilated or died by a abandoned landmine is too much. From your answer, I would point out that Belgium continues to follow up on this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u16	Mr President, Minister, NGOs, human rights activists and local civil organisations have been under global pressure for decades. In authoritarian regimes, they are committed to greater democracy at local level. At international level, they draw attention to the injustice that exists in their country. In democratic countries, they play an important role in sustaining a democratic transition. Finally, they also play a crucial role in more stable democracies in ensuring basic rights for all residents. In other words, without NGOs, those who can least be heard are even weaker than politicians, businesses and bureaucracy, who are not always interested in listening to them. This role and activities are usually not appreciated by NGOs. Environmentalists in Honduras and the Philippines, humanitarian NGOs in Central Africa, LGBT organisations in Russia.The list can be easily completed.It's all organisations and people who can expect bullying and violence from the authorities. And that is not limited to countries outside the West; even in Europe, the demonisation of NGOs is systematically increasing. Hungary and Poland introduced legal measures and in Italy there are increasingly hostile calls in government circles about humanitarian NGOs, as if they were enemies of the State. Fortunately, we have not yet reached the point where working for an NGO in Western Europe is a life-threatening choice. But should we let it get this far? It is now up to the democratic parties in Europe to send a stronger and clearer signal that it cannot go on like this. Minister, on 8 September you expressed your concern in De Standaard yourself about the demonisation of NGOs in Europe. Do you share this concern with your fellow Members at European level? What opportunities do you see for better protection at European level of the functioning and freedom of expression of NGOs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u17	Mr President, as a champion and promoter of human rights, I share your concern. The common thread throughout my policy is the human rights approach, with a great deal of attention being paid to the issue of shrinking space for civil organisations. Through the funding of NGOs, I want the role of civil society actors as representatives of citizens to be consolidated and strengthened. Given the increasing tendency towards closing civic cpace, which has also been beginning to show itself clearly in Europe for a few years, it is important to counter the crumbling of democracy. Among other things, Belgium is doing this by focusing on human rights and social inclusion in its development policy. The Shrinking space for civil society report: The EU response was published in 2017 from the European Parliament. This report lists the actions already undertaken by EU Member States to combat the phenomenon of shrinking space. These actions are often undertaken in coalitions with other Member States or with civil society organisations such as the Aga Khan Foundation. Leaders in the EU are Sweden, Great Britain and Denmark. The report also advocates a more proactive, inclusive and explicit political approach to the problem. For years, a policy of enabling space was used at European level, with the main thrust being to file off the sharp edges, but not openly confronting the respective regimes. Given the rapid degradation of the situation and the expansion of the problem, such an approach is no longer sufficient. A consistent development policy must not avoid confrontation with repressive regimes. I have done so several times in recent years, including Burundi, Uganda and the DRC. A specific workstream on shrinking space for civil organisations was recently established within the OECD-DAC. My administration participates actively in this and positions Belgium within this debate. Within the wider UN framework, Belgium, certainly as a member of the Security Council, can actively contribute to coalitions of similar countries, supporting joint initiatives in the fight against shrinking space.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think you take this issue to heart. You show with the actions you take that you support these people. Nevertheless, Belgium should be a little more consistent within Europe. When we talk about the freedom of human rights defenders in our dialogue with partner countries and other countries in the South, we in Europe must all the more condemn demonisation. The rhetoric to regard all NGOs as enemies of policy is antidemocratic and dangerous. We have no excuse to allow that. In the future, we will have to monitor this much more closely and condemn it more strongly. Democracy is being gnawed and democrats can only be the victims of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u19	Mr Minister, congratulations on your appointment as a champion of the recently launched UNICEF Initiative Generation Unlimited, an initiative aimed at improving an important problem for young people between 10 and 24 years of age, namely the lack of education and training opportunities. This deficit not only reduces the opportunities for young people themselves, but also hinders society as a whole to take advantage of all the talent available. Attention to education and youth is a focus that Belgian development cooperation has been using for decades. In this legislature, resolutions by both the majority and the opposition were adopted on the challenges of quality education in our partner countries. The gender dimension was systematically addressed. You have also committed yourself to the initiative, with concerns that you have already raised in your policy on many occasions: the role of the private sector, technological innovation and, of course, gender. This is in line with your earlier commitment SheDecides. Can you clarify how the new engagement will stand out from your earlier commitment to SheDecides? How will Belgian development policy be influenced by the commitment to the UNICEF initiative? You and three others have been named champions. Will you work closely with them in the future? If so, how will this cooperation be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u20	The commitment to UNICEF Generation Unlimited is indeed in line with my current commitment to the SheDecides movement. While SheDecides focuses on the reproductive rights and health of women and girls, Generation Unlimited is an initiative with a wider target audience and a broader field of action. Generation Unlimited works for boys and girls aged 10-24 for high-quality education, for more and better technical training and for empowerment tout court. SheDecides and Generation Unlimited have a common feature, namely that they want to empower or strengthen young people. As for SheDecides, I will support that initiative not only with words but also with deeds. A thorough adjustment of Belgian development policy is not necessary because many of the practices of Generation Unlimited are already embedded in Belgian development policy. For example, Generation Unlimited wants more attention to education and technical training, to which Belgian development policy already devotes a great deal of attention. In our government programmes, Belgium financed €72 million in education programmes in 2017. An important part of this support goes to so-called vocal training or technical training, in which the Belgian development agency Enabel has a strong expertise. In addition, Belgium will contribute a total of 26 million euros to the Global Partnership for Education in the period 2017-2020. Belgium's development policy also supports the strengthening of education in the south through NGOs, our universities and multilateral organisations. Another important exercise of the UNICEF initiative is the strengthening of partnerships and the bringing together of organisers and actors. It brings Generation Unlimited, multilateral organisations, the private sector, civil society and young people together within a single platform. Well, the promotion of partnerships for sustainable development objectives has been a common thread throughout my policy since my arrival in 2014. The other four champions are currently Nikolai Astrup, Minister of International Development of Norway, President Kenyatta of Kenya, Ms Tsitsi Masiyiwa of the Higherlife Foundation and Ms Vera Songwe, Executive Secretary of the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa. No agreement has yet been reached between the Champions on cooperation or division of labour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation and your commitment. I believe that this commitment will require more resources, more budget. I hope that this will be taken into account in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u22	Mr President, I'm a little embarrassed that Mrs Rita Bellens didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u23	She decided to turn all her questions into written questions. Ten minutes ago, I texted her that it was soon the turn of the joint question that you had with her, but she didn't react. So I suggest you put it down.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u24	Mr President, I can still wait a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u25	The minister said that she had indicated that she was turning all her oral questions into written questions. Nevertheless, you have the right to ask your question, Mr. Flahaux. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I am a little bothered to turn your back on you, especially since I have just asked a question to your colleague, Mr Peeters, who has referred me back to you for a digital problem, for the opening by telephone. But that's not what I'm going to tell you about. Deputy Prime Minister, according to a Eurobarometer survey published on 25 September 2018, four out of five citizens are in favour of private sector participation in Development Cooperation. According to Neven Mimica, Commissioner for International Cooperation and Development: "European citizens support our efforts to stimulate private investment in development cooperation, ensure equality between women and men and combat the root causes of irregular migration. It shows that our proposal to deepen our economic relations with Africa, with a focus on private investment, is gaining the support of citizens. We should see this as a call for more action for development now." This is what the Commissioner for International Cooperation and Development said in this regard. European citizens also express their support for measures promoting equality between women and men. For example, almost nine out of ten respondents felt that it should be made a priority of the European Union's development policy. It was on combating violence against women and girls (78 per cent), combating discrimination against women (63 per cent), and opening up access to education for women and girls (61 per cent) that they wished to see efforts concentrated in particular. Deputy Prime Minister, I do not have to say this to you because you have just published a book on the necessary equality between men and women. What, however, is your analysis of the role that the private sector could play more in development cooperation as a means, in particular, of combating migration? European citizens also express their support for measures promoting equality between women and men. What avenues could be explored by the Belgian private sector in this area with regard to development cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u27	Mr. President, support for the private sector in developing countries is an effective and efficient way to combat poverty and reduce inequality in order to achieve inclusive and sustainable economic growth. Support for local entrepreneurship, with particular attention to SMEs, promotes the creation of decent jobs for women and men and ensures better stability. Support for the local private sector is one of my top priorities as it leads to productivity growth and generates an increase in income, while increasing the well-being of the population through the provision of quality goods and services. In this sense, the development of the private sector also contributes to the fight against migration. To achieve this goal, the mobilization of significant financial resources is necessary. Financing for development can no longer be covered by official development assistance alone, but must also involve the private sector. Recognizing the importance of private sector investment for development, Belgian Cooperation is implementing various strategies to raise awareness among Belgian companies and encourage them to invest in least developed countries in particular. To this end, a Belgian charter for the role of the private sector, civil society and the public sector in implementing the sustainable development goals was created in 2016. This multi-stakeholder charter, signed by about 100 private companies, commits different sectors to work in partnership on concrete projects for sustainable development. In particular, the Charter calls on companies to support the local private sector, in particular SMEs in intervention countries, to develop local skills and invest in training throughout the supply chain by integrating know-how into the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) in local markets. In addition, Belgian Cooperation is actively working on the identification and testing of innovative development financing mechanisms to encourage private sector involvement. Several instruments, such as Development Impact Bonds, the voucher system or results-based financing, are being incorporated into the legislative framework of Belgian development policy. These innovative mechanisms will be specially used to strengthen the private sector and local SMEs. A new facility, the Business Partnership Facility, is also about to emerge with a view to fostering the emergence of public-private partnerships. The creation of this facility will provide funding for projects in support of the sustainable development goals in which the private sector plays a leading role. Respect for human rights and gender mainstreaming are fundamental principles taken into account in all Belgian development policy interventions. The development of women's entrepreneurship, seen as a means of contributing to the improvement of women's economic conditions, is an important challenge that must take into account a series of obstacles faced by women: training and education needs, limited access to productive resources, limited access to finance and access to markets. The lack of participation of women in producer organisations, for example, limits their ability to act and affects their chances of improving their socio-economic situation at a wider level. These are real challenges which Belgian development policy is tackling and which could also be taken into account by the private sector. Various avenues are possible, such as: promoting women's employment and training; supporting women's access to means of production and credit; developing products, services specifically targeting their needs; developing gender-sensitive business strategies; encouraging women's participation in representative bodies; or partnering with civil society, the public sector and academia to develop projects that promote equality between women and men. As a member of the OECD, our country and therefore my administration are participating in the OECD Policy Dialogue on Women Economic Empowerment on issues related to domestic work and long-term paid work and their impact on women's empowerment. I will pay attention to the recommendations that will emerge.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. Since you took office, I find it very commendable that, through new channels, you are trying to make development cooperation popular again, in particular by encouraging the private sector to take an interest in it. As the Metro newspaper reports, you are trying to do more with less public resources. Moreover, a British think tank showed that Belgian cooperation was second in this area. I learned it with great satisfaction. Our cooperation focuses mainly on Africa and has an advantage and a disadvantage. We know that women have traditionally played an extremely important role in this area. I am thinking in particular of the economic aspects. Is it not said that in Africa, women do everything, while men rest? Nevertheless, they often lack some management, if I may say so. From this point of view, everything you undertake will only please us all. However, as we have seen in the preparation of the list of candidates for the Congolese elections, very few women are present at the political level. I believe that Ethiopia is an exception, since Ethiopia has appointed a woman to the presidential office. In short, women are still at a standstill in gaining political responsibilities, which – perhaps even more in Africa than elsewhere – remains the key to true power. In any case, Minister, I thank you for your detailed answer, which I will analyse carefully, even if I ask you subsidiary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u29	Mr President, Minister, 1 October was the International Day of the Elderly. On that day, the Flemish Elder Council, together with World Solidarity, Trias and FOS, called for more attention to international ageing. Worldwide, the number of older people is increasing, but without adequate attention being paid to this phenomenon. According to the World Health Organisation, within 30 years the number of older people will double to 20% of the world's population. Most of the group of new elderly people will live in the least developed countries. Without the necessary efforts, older people in these countries will be able to participate much less in social life, and this will be at the expense of their well-being. In a number of Belgian partner countries, growth will already take place over one generation. Family care, which is often the most reliable aid, will no longer be sufficient as more and more young people are moving to cities and the countryside is ageing. Poor support for older people also hampers the economic emancipation of women, who are expected to take on the burden of care. The Flemish Council of Elders made three recommendations, namely increasing attention to the theme, making the theme part of the policy, and strengthening the human rights of the elderly. Minister, what is your response to these three recommendations of the Flemish Elder Council and the relevant development organisations? To what extent do you think this issue is already being addressed in your policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Pehlivan, the focus of development cooperation policy is first and foremost on delivering human rights. Of course, this includes the human rights of the elderly. Attention to international ageing is needed. The needs of this population will increase over the years. As regards the health of this group, Belgium, at multilateral level, supports the World Health Organisation with an annual budget of EUR 8 million for the organisation's general resources, half of which is part of the compulsory contribution, and the other half is a voluntary contribution. This contribution can be used to meet the needs of the organisation. For example, the study you mentioned can be financed. On a bilateral level, Belgium supports national health systems which should be able to cope with the problems of increasing ageing. The political dialogue on health systems is also a good opportunity to discuss this issue. Sometimes this works in a bilateral direction, because the social approach to ageing in our partner countries can sometimes also inspire the approach in our society. The promotion or strengthening of a social protection system in developing countries can also provide for older people's attention. Social protection is one of the specific objectives of the Decent Work Agenda of the International Labour Organization (ILO), a partner organisation of Belgium. Each year, Belgium grants the ILO approximately 3 million euros as a compulsory contribution and 3 million euros as a voluntary contribution. The ILO's mission is to support developing countries to ensure social protection for each social group. Social security includes access to medical care and income support, in particular for the elderly and in the case of unemployment, sickness, invalidity, accidents at work, maternity or the disappearance of family support. In September 2018, the ILO published the report on Social Protection for the Elderly: key policy and statistical trends 2017-2019. The ILO has also launched an online pension guide, with tools for the development of pension systems, policy options, adequacy of benefits, statistics, video tutorials, country studies, etc. A cost calculator for social protection bases is used to estimate the cost of non-contributory social pensions. Having said that, I make an important choice in my policy. The biggest challenge for emerging countries is the two billion Africans demographic explosion in 2050. That's why I make family planning and birth control an absolute priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u31	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Grovonius' 27092 and 27212 are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u32	Minister, at the end of September, the President of the National Security Council of Burundi announced that the activities of foreign NGOs in the country would now be considered illegal. According to the Security Council, foreign NGOs are not generally with NGO legislation in Burundi. Meanwhile, it was also confirmed by the Minister of the Interior, Pascal Barandagiyae, that Burundi no longer recognises foreign NGOs. The organisations now have three months to prove that they are following the country's NGO laws with four documents: an operational protocol and a cooperation contract with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a proof that they respect financial legislation and a strategy that will ensure an ethnic balance within the organisation in three years, such as the quotas in government institutions where 60% of Hutu's positions and 40% by Tutsi's have to be filled in. NGOs are rightly concerned about the evolution in Burundi, imposing increasing conditions on civil society organisations and NGOs and hampering their proper functioning. For example, it is feared that the stricter conditions will mainly serve to silence human rights organisations. Minister, I suspect that you have already been in contact with the Burundian Government through the embassy in order to clarify the legal consequences. Is the proper functioning of Belgian NGOs in Burundi still safeguarded? How can we ensure that Belgian NGOs are not obstructed in their operation? In the meantime, I suppose there has also been European contact, because it is not just about Belgian NGOs. Will the EU take new action? Will individual sanctions be further extended? It's pretty quiet in that respect. We normally work in a multilateral context in this matter. How will we deal with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u33	Mrs Van Hoof, our embassy in Bujumbura and my services closely monitor the operation of civil society in Burundi and are in contact with the other main donors. Since 1 October 2018, all activities of foreign NGOs in Burundi have been suspended for three months by a decision of the Burundian government. The Burundian government demands strict enforcement of international NGO legislation, in particular its financial aspects and the requirements relating to ethnic balances in the employment of local staff. I deeply regret the Burundian Government's decision to suspend international NGOs for a period of three months. I share the concerns of our NGOs about this evolution. This risks further shrinking the political space at a time when Burundi is facing a new electoral period. Peaceful freedom of association must be at the heart of this. Belgium underlines the importance of an independent civil society and respect for international human rights standards. Together with the other donors present, a common message was delivered to the Burundian government. It underlined the importance of efforts by the suspended NGOs to improve the living conditions of the Burundian population. Certain aspects and legal consequences of the NGO laws should indeed be clarified. However, the joint message from donors also points out that any adjustment by the NGOs present should be in line with existing international best practices and donor requirements. As far as ethnic quotas are concerned, it is essential for us to strictly safeguard the legal security of the staff involved. This aspect, but also others, is closely followed by my administration and myself. This is, of course, done in close consultation with the Belgian NGOs concerned, which we encourage to maintain a common position as far as possible. As you yourself say, the activities of the Belgian NGOs, under the orders of the Burundian Government, have been suspended until the end of December, pending the submission of a dossier and its appreciation by the Burundian authorities. Nevertheless, there is a great diversity of structures and approaches among the Belgian NGOs, so the impact of the Burundian requirements varies greatly according to the organisation. Their operation should therefore be assessed on a case-by-case basis. This is also the subject of very close consultations between my administration and the affected NGOs. On 23 October 2018, our embassy in Bujumbura learned that the coordinator of 11.11.11 in Burundi and Rwanda was immediately expelled from Burundi. Thanks to the mediation of our embassy, the coordinator finally had 24 hours to leave the country. My services were not informed in advance of this decision. Contacts with the Burundian government take place through the usual diplomatic channels. This decision by Burundi has no direct effect on governmental cooperation. On 21 May 2015, I informed the Burundian Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation that no new cooperation programme would be approved with Burundi as a result of the political situation resulting from the third mandate of the President. The current programmes were reoriented towards activities involving direct support to the population in the areas of health, education and agriculture. Interventions involving institutional support for Burundian educational institutions were deleted. Under the 2017-21 programme of non-governmental cooperation, 21 Belgian NGOs are active in Burundi in various areas, including the contribution to an independent civil society. It is important that the Belgian programme funding system assumes that the right of initiative remains with the NGOs. It is therefore primarily up to the NGOs to decide whether the conditions are in place to remain active in Burundi and to continue to support the people in need. In the run-up to the 2015 elections, several opposition leaders and dissidents fled the country within the party of the President. Following the protested elections, the failed coup and subsequent violent repression by the regime, the majority of human rights activists and civil society fled the country. As a result of all this, Burundi is left behind without free press, without critical NGOs and without credible opposition. Belgian development cooperation supports the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights in Burundi with a contribution of 1.5 million euros for the period 2015-2017 and a new contribution of 1 million euros for the years 2018 and 2019. In 2017 I decided to launch calls for proposals for projects to strengthen human rights. Four projects with Belgian and international NGOs were financed for a total amount of 3.3 million euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u34	Minister, I believe that the Belgian Government intervenes in Burundi in a good way to support the Belgian NGOs there. As you said, there is no opposition, no freedom of the press and no defence of human rights in the country. This is of course a matter of concern to us, because Burundi's example of taking out Belgian and foreign NGOs can inspire other countries. At European level, people are rather lax in this respect. I have heard that they welcome diversity, for example in public institutions on Hutus and Tutsis quotas. That actually means that they also implicitly approve this for the NGOs. I am concerned that the European Union is not going to take stricter action in this area and not to resort to individual sanctions or other measures to indicate that this is a bridge too far. The question is why it does not, because at the moment it is apparently still funding the Burundian army through the African Union in Somalia, the AMISOM Contigent. It explicitly supports the Burundian government with the army, but also lets the foreign NGOs slacken a little. My question is to achieve a more common approach with the European Union, because this is something that concerns me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u35	Mr President, Mr Minister, on 23 December 2015, BIO, the Belgian Investment Corporation for Developing Countries, signed a financing agreement in Feronia of 11 million euros, despite the alarm sounded a few months earlier by civil society on the occasion of the release of a report entitled "Agrocolinialism in the Congo" denouncing the illegal practices that Feronia would lead. In November 2016, Belgian NGOs and other countries (France, the United Kingdom, Germany, Spain and Canada) issued a report providing new evidence of the offences allegedly committed by Feronia. We have exchanged on this file several times. In our last discussion, you indicated that you were following the file very closely and that an external evaluation would take place. Since then, new elements have emerged in the file, including a report by German parliamentarians who point to several serious facts relating to non-compliance with the minimum wage for workers and land grabbing. In addition, most recently, we received information that nine communities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo had filed complaints against Feronia through the complaints mechanism of the German Development Bank about a land dispute. Minister, where are you with this case? On February 14, 2017, you replied: "It is Feronia's responsibility to respect social and environmental legislation." To ensure this, we should be able to answer a series of questions. Since social infrastructures (schools and health centres) are not built, why do DEG and BIO refuse to make public all the objectives and targets agreed in the social action plan between Feronia and BIO. The Belgian NGOs are asking for this document. It would also be interesting for parliamentarians to have access to it to get a clearer picture of this issue. The famous German report, as well as that of the Natural Resources Network, highlights the failure to pay the minimum wage for the daily workers of the company. How does BIO fail to enforce this priority? I would add that this problem has been raised in reports since 2015. I want to hear that sometimes it takes time for things to get going. However, three years have already passed, and there is clearly no improvement in this area. Finally, Minister, tensions exist between local communities and the company, and these have been denounced since 2015. These tensions continued until the summer of 2018, when the two reports I have just mentioned were published. Why do BIO and Belgian Cooperation not impose on Feronia a form of institutionalized dialogue between itself and the communities? This dialogue should be set up and supervised by a mediator who would be independent and accepted by both parties, including the communities. Indeed, the reports point out that the memorandum of understanding that the company puts forward to certify good relations with the communities is contested by these same communities. I think there is a concern at this level too. I'd like to hear from you on all these aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u36	Mrs Grovonius, BIO is associated with the monitoring of the company's environmental and social performance plan alongside the main investor, the German financing institution, BEG. Despite some delays in the construction and rehabilitation of staff houses, Feronia is in line overall. At the end of 2017, the company signed agreements with local communities on the concession of plantations to jointly improve the infrastructure, commitment and development of communities on their territory. In 2017, several NGOs published a report highlighting a series of concerns about the environmental, social and governance performance of society. BIO then invited NGOs to discuss it. As a result, an external and independent assessment of the main concerns expressed was conducted on the site. The consultant's report was discussed with NGOs in two meetings and shared with the company so that it could take the necessary steps to improve ESG performance. BIO is of the opinion that the company is doing its best in its very fragile financial situation to promote the improvement of the living conditions of its workers, families and local communities. For example, more than 2,000 kilometres of roads were built or rehabilitated by the company, as well as 3,800 houses, 95 schools, 4 hospitals and 20 clinics. We must be aware that a possible withdrawal from the BEG and BIO institutions would be a cost on the bankruptcy of the company, which is the only major employer in the region and which alone constitutes the provider of basic health services, and a major support in the field of education. The Congolese State is almost absent in this region. In response to criticism from NGOs, BIO asked an external independent expert to investigate the five main concerns raised by NGOs. The investigation was carried out on the basis of a visit to the site, interviews with the company's staff, consultations with the communities, an analysis of the documentation. The expert's report was submitted to NGOs with the BIO management responses and was followed by a meeting with NGOs on 15 November 2017. Since that meeting, BIO, together with other funding institutions, has continued to be involved in monitoring and supporting the company with a view to implementing environmental and social commitments enabling the implementation of several achievements. In November 2017, following a series of meetings between the company and local community representatives in Kisangani, at the invitation of the provincial government Tshopo, a memorandum of understanding was signed with local communities in the territories of Isangi, Basoko and Yahuma. In January 2018, similar meetings were held with the communities in Boteka and Yaligimba, which also led to the signing of a memorandum of understanding. These memoranda of understanding formalise the way in which society and local communities operate with regard to the establishment of social infrastructure renovations. Since their signature, the company has demonstrated significant efforts to fulfil its obligations as defined in the protocol. As noted in the 2017 report, the company had already made significant progress a year ago in consultation with local communities, including the development of a specific shareholder commitment plan for plantations, the establishment of an ICT system to record and monitor all community consultations and complaints, and the recruitment of social managers. This was mainly reflected in an increase in commitments and consultations on the site. BIO believes, however, that further progress is achievable and will continue to monitor progress in community consultation, development and implementation through the annual visit of its independent expert. The company is also working with communities to set up development committees and local communities to provide livelihoods for people who do not work for society. Working with local NGOs has established and formed 14 development committees, communities at the three plantation sites. Finally, a new labour agreement was negotiated and approved by the company and unions at the end of August 2018. The convention is pending ratification by the government's labour inspectorate and will have to be in force by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u37	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I don't know what to tell you. Every time we talk about this issue, we face two realities that confront each other. I feel like BIO really has eyelets. We now have the report by the German parliamentarians, which again points to a series of elements. I am not talking about a 2017 report, but about a more recent report. You tell me that beautiful roads have been built and I quote: "The workers also complained about the long distances between them and the workplaces in the plantations. They had to walk up to 14 kilometers a day and there was no transport for the workers." It's good to build roads, but if there's no transport for the workers... The report indicates the amounts of wages that are paid and that are well below the minimum wage. You're talking about Kisangani's chords. We can talk about it here. One participant stated that his community had not been presented at the time of signing the agreements. The community did not feel represented and did not agree with the content of the agreements. Because there was a police presence at the time the agreements were signed. I'll pass you and the best. Minister, you do not want to consider the scale of the problem on the ground. This is dramatic because today, people are suffering very seriously from this situation. There is no doubt that it is necessary to be able to help companies create jobs on the ground, but it must not be at any cost. I remind you of what you told me at the time. It is up to Feronia to comply with social and environmental legislation. Today, Minister, this is still not the case and we are not doing anything! In addition, Mr. Chair, there is a series of evaluation reports. I would like parliamentarians to have access to it. I do not know whether to make my request in writing or whether oral language is sufficient. In any event, I would like to see access to these reports, as I would like to see the full range of objectives and targets set out in the social action plan between Feronia and BIO.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u38	Madam, I invite you to write to me. I would also like to inform you that Mr Zonneveld of BIO has asked us for an appointment, which will not be possible in November and December because of the workload. But we will be holding a meeting with this gentleman in early January. This may give you the opportunity, on the basis of the reports you have received in the meantime, to ask him questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u39	Minister, on 25 October, the Fair Trade Event was dedicated to chocolate this year. Chocolate is an extremely popular product worldwide, which always conquers new markets and manages to attract new customers. Unfortunately, it is not those who work on the cacao plantations that reap the fruits of it. There is an urgent need for better working conditions for the farmers and the workers who make our chocolates. In June, I already asked you a question about working conditions in the cocoa sector, following an important German conference on which Belgium was remarkably absent. That was regrettable because Belgium is such an important player in the global cocoa sector. You replied to me that there was a dialogue between the Belgian private sector, the NGOs and the platform The Shift, with the aim of improving the lives of cocoa producers. In the autumn, you said that a common ambition would be announced. This disclosure would lead to a number of concrete commitments for the private sector. When I asked my questions in June, you also mentioned a financial facility that would be set up by the DGD to allow companies to invest in SMEs in developing countries that might benefit from cocoa production. Finally, there is the ICCO, where our fellow countryman Michel Arrion was elected Executive Director, which would be a positive thing. Can you tell me, Minister, how the dialogue on this issue between the private sector, NGOs and the platform The Shift went? Has there already been a decision on joint ambition and is there any idea of what commitments will be made? Is the financial facility that would be set up by the DGD already in operation? What do you think are the prospects of this facility? How much enthusiasm is there in the Belgian private sector? Did Michel Arrion's appointment on 1 October give Belgium new opportunities to play a stronger role in the global debate on working conditions in cocoa production?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u40	During your previous intervention in June on Belgian cooperation with the cocoa sector, I informed you that various actors of this cooperation have intervened at different levels in order to improve the living conditions of small cocoa producers. Through its investments, Enabel through the Trade Development Center, and Belgian NGOs financed through the DGD, all contribute to this goal in one way or another. The fourth World Cacao Conference took place in Berlin from 22 to 25 April. This led to the adoption of the Berlin Declaration, which makes a series of important recommendations to enable cocoa farmers to earn a living income. In this context, I took the decision to mobilise the operators of the cocoa sector in Belgium, with the aim of making the Belgian chocolate sector more sustainable and thus improving the living conditions of small cocoa producers. To manage this process, I have called on the Netherlands Institute for Sustainable Trade and the Belgian sustainability network The Shift. The Netherlands Institute for Sustainable Trade has extensive experience in partnership between companies, civil society actors and governments, active in the cocoa sector. The institute has become an internationally recognized multi-donor initiative. To date, intensive consultations have been held with the Royal Belgian Association for the Biscuit, Chocolate, Praline and Sugar Goods Industry, Choprabisco. Several round tables were organised, with retailers, civil society actors, the research and development world, as well as the bean to bar chocolateiers involved. This shows that the Belgian initiative to implement a sustainable Belgian chocolate programme is desirable and highly relevant. The certification of sustainable cocoa should also be accompanied by specific measures leading to better social and economic sustainability. In this respect, it is examined whether a public-private partnership is possible on the basis of clear and precise objectives. Of course, this is only possible if all ongoing talks lead to a satisfactory outcome. It is too early to be sure. We are extremely satisfied with the fact that our fellow countryman, Michel Arrion, has been appointed the new director of ICCO, headquartered in Abidjan. His expertise in the chocolate sector, as well as in child labour, will be very useful for us in the possible implementation of a Belgian programme on sustainable chocolate, together with the local authorities involved. For this reason, a first meeting was scheduled on 8 November with Mr Arrion, various agencies of the FPS Foreign Affairs and the various stakeholders involved in my initiative. The financial facility, which you cite, is independent of my concrete initiative on the sustainability of the Belgian chocolate sector and has a broader objective, in particular to mobilise the private sector for sustainable international development. Two project calls are planned each year for the next five years. It is up to the Directorate-General for Development and Humanitarian Aid, in close cooperation and consultation with the King Baudouin Foundation, who is responsible for that facility, to determine the content of the project calls. A first call for projects will be launched before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This is one of the long-term dialogues needed to have an impact. In any case, I hope that there will be tangible progress in the specific dossier on cocoa, including through the planning you have mentioned. I hope that Belgium can be an example in this respect, in our interest, but also in the interest of all those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u42	Madam President, Minister, some of your colleagues in the government, namely Minister Jambon and Secretary of State Francken, seemed to be falling out of the blue over the last few weeks about the content of the Global Compact for Migration. We understand, after reading newspapers and consulting the information channels available to us, that the Belgian delegation during the intergovernmental negotiations consisted of the permanent representation at the UN, accompanied several times by the Belgian Special Envoy for Asylum and Migration. Moreover, as we have heard, there was coordination of the Belgian position which was assured at meetings of the so-called CoorMulti meeting, in the presence of this special envoy, the competent cabinets and experts. From the answer given by the Prime Minister in plenary last week, I understood that, as always, the procedure was followed and that several experts were able to give opinions. The Prime Minister said that a positive opinion was delivered on 12 September. I have questions about all of this. Can you tell us more about the role of the Special Envoy for Asylum and Migration? Can you give an overview of the various contacts that have been made with the various Cabinets, in particular the Home Affairs and Asylum and Migration Cabinets? What was the input from the Interior and Asylum and Migration? Before the signing in July, were fundamental objections raised by these Cabinets or not? Did these Cabinets oppose the signature? Can you tell us more about the positive opinion of September 12th? Who are the experts on the subject? Where and how is this opinion available for Parliament's inspection? Finally, do you think there are passages in the Global Compact that are not in line with Belgian practice or with Belgian instruments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u43	Mr Van der Maelen, the Special Envoy for Asylum and Migration is responsible for external international policy in our country on asylum and migration. For example, the Special Envoy represents Belgium in relation to asylum and migration in third countries, international institutions and international conferences. This includes the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration, as well as the Global Forum on Migration and Development, regional migration dialogues, EU migration policy and EU migration dialogues. In addition, the organisation of the CoorAM coordination of Asylum and Migration is part of his mission. The CoorAM is a meeting bringing together federal partners to ensure good coherence in the Belgian approach to asylum and migration at the international level. The official Belgian position is determined by a formal coordination mechanism, the CoorMulti, invested by the FPS Foreign Affairs, in particular the Directorate M7, within the Directorate-General for Multilateral Affairs and Globalisation. Three CoorMulti meetings were held under the special envoy's initiative. A first meeting took place on 19 February 2018, before the start of the negotiations, to determine the Belgian negotiating position. A second meeting took place on 4 June 2018, during the penultimate round of negotiations, to adjust the Belgian negotiating position, taking into account the evolution of the negotiations. A third meeting took place on 12 September 2018 to evaluate the final version of the text and to determine the Belgian attitude towards it. At the last CoorMulti meeting, it was decided that Belgium will approve the Global Compact for Migration in Marrakech, because it is a balanced text that reflects Belgian concerns well and because the text represents an important step forward for world diplomacy. All the official bodies, both federal and federal, which have competence in relation to migration, were invited to this CoorMulti meeting and subsequently received the minutes of the meeting. Several bodies under the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration participated actively in the debates to determine the Belgian negotiating position. The Cabinets of the Minister for the Interior and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration made a number of comments on the text, which were taken into account during the negotiations and which led to adjustments in the final version of the text. The Global Compact for Migration is not a legally binding text and will not be signed as such. The aim is to ensure that the high-level text in Marrakech will be adopted by Member States in the same way as, for example, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was adopted in September 2015. There will be no vote in Marrakech and nothing will be signed. During the various CoorMulti meetings on the Belgian position, there was never any Belgian opposition to the adoption of the Global Compact for Migration. Finally, I refer to the Prime Minister's speech to the UN General Assembly on 27 September 2018. I quote: 'My country will sign the Global Migration Pact in Marrakech in December. This text is a huge step forward. It clarifies the different concepts and provides a lever for organised and controlled management of international mobility."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic998x.u44	Thank you for your clear answer, Minister. We now have a nice picture of the course of the discussions on this Compact for Migration in the Belgian Government, but also at international level. We will use the information we have received from you today.
