ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u1	Colleagues, I suggest that we continue our work. First of all I would like to welcome our American guests. Thank you very much for waiting our Defence committee. I apologize for our delay. I understand that you will briefly introduce yourself and Colonel Gates will deliver a short presentation. Colonel Jeff Gates, the floor is yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u2	Thank you Madame chairperson, distinguished representatives, for the invitation to participate in today's information exchange with the Belgian parliament regarding the F-16 programme. I am Colonel Jeff Gates, from the United States Air Force (USAF). I am the F-16 system program manager. With me today I have Colonel Michael Weaver, United States Air Force. He is the chief combat forces division and he also flesh the multinational fire program operational and logistical requirements subcommittee. To his right I have Mike McSpadden, Lockheed Martin, director of systems engineering and the F-16 chief engineer. To his right I have Tom Jones from Lockheed Martin, principal engineer for F-16 structural integrity. I have this team of experts with me today to provide you with the best answers possible regarding the service life of the F-16. I am fully aware of the Lockheed Martin report, which provides an assessment on the Belgium aircraft of establishing their certified life. The structure reports are not special products. All F-16 partners get similar reports on an annual basis. The purpose of the report is to provide the Belgian air force with data required to determine inspection intervals and maintenance strategies for every aircraft within their F-16 fleet. I just want to keep all of you aware that this is just one piece of the puzzle that the Belgian Air Force should consider when they're determining the future of their fleet of fighter aircraft. To help set the stage, there is currently no effort underway anywhere to extend the certified service life of any Block-15 F-16 aircraft. The United States withdrew its Block-F-15 aircraft many years ago. The USAF continues to operate later versions of the F-16. We have Block-25's, 30's, 40's and 50's, which have very different structures and improved capability. Madame fleshperson, distinguished representatives, we know your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u3	Thank you very much for your introduction. Colleagues, I hereby open this question round.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u4	Madam President, I suppose I can ask my questions in Dutch and translate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u5	I hope so, Mr Top. [[Hilarity]] That's a joke!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u6	I would like to start with two brief questions. My first question is to the representatives of the US Air Force, including Mr Gates. It is a simple question that can be answered yes or no. It's a supposing question. If the F-16 fleet of Belgium stays on until after 2034, is there any possibility of American aid for that fleet? My second question is addressed to the representatives of Lockheed Martin. I am not talking about a technical explanation, which may be discussed later in the sitting. It's also a yes-no question. There has already been a lot of talk about soft SLEP and hard SLEP. Is a SLEP of more than 2 000 hours of flight time on the types F-16/Block-15 available to the Belgian Defence Office on the Belgian F-16s?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u7	Gentlemen, thank you for being here. Madam President, I will ask my questions in Dutch anyway, so that my questions are correctly reflected and so that I do not make mistakes. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard several members of the Belgian Air Force today. There is still uncertainty about that 90%. So that the life of our aircraft could be extended, they should, from day 1 until now, be equipped with measuring instruments to check, among other things, the metal strength. A colonel who has also been a pilot stated that you have the old dates still on tapes. Then there is a gap over which you have no information. As of 2006, information has been sent back to you. That would be sufficient for you to determine whether the structure of our F-16s is still in good condition and to answer the question about the lifetime extension, according to the theoretical model you have given. The colonel says this is possible, but according to your answers, which I've read, I can't. You refer to the ENSB 09/001 IAT Directive. In the conclusions of our DG MR we can also see that 90% registration is an obligation to allow us to extend our lifespan. That is the information we have at our disposal. Can you explain that to us from a production point of view from the beginning? What's the procedure? We don't really know. We hope that you will be able to explain that. We have also learned that the latest measuring instruments installed on our devices still have software problems. The data cannot be converted, it is corrupted data that cannot be read. All the other countries that have installed these instruments have long given up and no longer measure. We're still trying, if I'm right, to solve that problem with you. This data can be interesting in order to guarantee that our aircraft can fly safely between now and 2029 when our aircraft leave rotation. You said the Block-15 devices at the US Air Force have been phased out for a long time. My question is hypothetical. If we want to extend the life of our Block-15 devices, is it true that we have to send some of our devices to you and that you must completely dismantle them and re-examine them in order to extend their lifespan or not and provide new certifications? Is the information on that procedure correct? If not, what procedure should be followed? I am also asking this question with regard to the certification, which must be done by the US Air Force. Would the US Air Force do that if we decided to do so? A colonel has told us that there are corrosion problems on our aircraft. The maintenance of the SABCA equipment in Gosselies raises a lot of unnoticed problems, of which corrosion is a major part. Is that problem known to you? Does that problem only occur with our aircraft? Finally, the memos we received from you are about the metal strength, including the construction of the wings. Are there any other parameters that need to be measured and included in a lifetime extension of our devices? I read in a report, for example, that the radar needs to be upgraded. Maybe it's also about the landing gear or the engine. I find it difficult to imagine that the metal strength is the only parameter for deciding on the lifespan extension. What are the five most important parameters, if any, we need to examine, so that we can carry out a full extension if that is decided back?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u8	I want to thank you, gentlemen, for making this long journey. You must be very tired. We apologize for the delay in this exchange of views, following the previous discussions. First of all, I will refer to a Belgian document which dates back to November 2015 and was used in the decision of the Council of Ministers to defend the idea of buying new aircraft. In particular, it states that the F-16 production line will be closed in 2017. Is this information accurate? To my knowledge, no, because production is still under way. If so, how much longer? Which countries continue to acquire F-16s? Then, in the same document, it is mentioned: "In the period 2030-2035, the transition to another aircraft will, no matter what, have to be accomplished, since the American support necessary to operate the Belgian F-16 fleet will then have disappeared." Is that correct? According to information delivered to us this afternoon, the United States could provide F-16s well beyond that date. My third question relates to the recent documents released by Lockheed Martin and the US Air Force in April 2017 and February 2018 as well as the one you recently drafted, at the Minister's request following our questions about the possible extension of the F-16s. I must confess that I do not understand the consistency between the two memos that you, Lockheed Martin, wrote in April 2017 and February 2018. It states that you do not have an IAT device but, through various calculations, evaluations and technical explanations, you believe that these aircraft can be extended according to multi-year soft SLEP or hard SLEP scenarios. And then, suddenly, at the request of the Belgian Government, we receive a document warning us that these devices are almost unusable, except for air policy. For everything else, they are described as dangerous. The same report states that an IAT device should have been installed for 90% of aircraft life. I therefore see an inconsistency, a fundamental contradiction between the first two studies and this note that you give us today. That is why I would like an explanation of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u9	Madam Chair, I will ask my question in French, because if I do so in my native language, I will complicate our work. Thank you, gentlemen, for taking this trip to answer our questions. For starters, I'll ask you two very brief ones. The first is in line with that of my colleague from the CDH. We are very surprised at the gap between the relationships that you have produced. How can such a difference be justified in such a short period of time? Then, among the last documents we consulted in the dark room was a report that we did not ask for, but that was requested by the government and the minister. For what purpose was this note ordered from you? Finally, how did you work with the Minister on possible economic returns from this market?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u10	Madam President, if it does not bother you, I will speak in my native language. I'll do my best to be clear. I would like to thank the four gentlemen sincerely for coming here and making time available for this committee. We have been discussing a number of documents with which their organisations are involved all day long. Gentlemen, for us it is a wealth to be able to exchange thoughts with you. I have two specific, punctual questions. On the two famous memos of 26 April 2017 and 12 February 2018, there has been some confusion among the committee members for some time, in particular whether those memos have been drawn up in the framework of a metal fatigue calculation model, or of a study that shows that there may be a lifetime extension of the F16 devices. I believe that it makes sense for you to formulate your thinking on this matter and demonstrate whether it is a study on metal fatigue or on life expectancy. My second question is whether Lockheed Martin can guarantee the airworthiness of the aircraft beyond 8 000 hours, and whether there is any cost involved. If so, what are the costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u11	Gentlemen, it is my turn to thank you for your presence and for the answers you will give us. First of all, since this morning we have been talking about these studies which concern only the metal structure of the apparatus. Do you have any studies on the F-16 in general and on its Belgian model in particular? Another question concerns the lessons you learn from this file. In the case of the F-35, are you already working on finer modeling of the aging of the aircraft, both in terms of the metal structure and the aircraft itself? Finally, I took note of your statement that the two studies concerned maintenance intervals, allowing the Belgian air force to organise maintenance of the aircraft, and did not relate to the extension.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u12	Madam President, I too would like to thank the gentlemen for being here and for having flown over to Belgium for this important committee day. Gentlemen, I have three questions. First of all, there is the question about the lifetime forecast. The information you provided here on Friday was dismissed by the military, by the Air Force, as a theoretical exercise. Can you predict the lifetime of the Belgian Air Force's aircraft on the basis of equipment such as radars and so on? Can you put a timing on that? Secondly, it is said that the life-cycle extension requires equipment, recorders and so on. My question to you is very clear: what is the possible extension of the lifetime of the Belgian F-16s dependent on? What conditions are necessary to allow an extension, for six years, or according to your second study, until 2037? Thirdly, that is what the debate is about. One of the specialists from the Belgian Air Force has said that we can allow our fleet to fly for six years longer without additional costs. Is that right? Can you confirm that, or can you deny that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u13	Gentlemen, thank you for coming to this committee. I absolutely appreciate you making this effort. I have a technical question about the IAT trackers and other instruments for capturing flight data. Is it absolutely necessary, in your view, that 90% of the flight data of each aircraft has been traced since the aeroplane was put into service in order to be able to predict the lifespan of those aircraft? I refer to the IAT ENSB 09/001. Do you agree that 90% of the entire life of such a plane has to be traced in order to be able to predict what the future is? Suppose that not 90% of the flight data is recorded, is it possible, if the Belgian Defense very quickly places IAT trackers, to determine the wear and tear of the aircraft once again via some technical tool, where there is a complete overlap of the past, and to continue with trackers from that moment on? Is it possible, in some technical way, to predict accurately the future of the aircraft and its maximum lifespan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u14	Gentlemen, it's my turn to thank you for your presence tonight. In Jeff Gates' intervention, I noted the fact that the Blocks-15 were put out of service in the United States. These were aircraft comparable to Belgian aircraft. However, at the hearing of one of your predecessors here, we were told that by simply changing the Block-15, we could do just about a Block-30 or 50. This information was given to us to justify the fact that the lifespan of the current Blocks-15 in Belgium could be extended without problems. I'm asking myself several questions. Why did the United States decide not to work with the Block-15 anymore and leave the service? When you answer the various questions about, among other things, the suppression of production, could you always tell us whether it is a Block-15, Block-25, Block-30 or Block-50? I think there is a great deal of confusion on this point. Some information on this subject must be extremely precise. They will probably be able to justify whether or not the Block-15 used in Belgium can be extended or not. If so, at what cost? This is a fundamental point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u15	My first question is addressed to the people of Lockheed Martin. It's a specific question. In your studies of April 2017 and February 2018 delivered to our country, one of the conclusions is that, if we take into account the intensity of the use of the F-16 fleet, that fleet could keep in the air for a number of additional years based on a structural analysis of metal fatigue and so on. Have you based yourself on the individual data of our F-16 fleet? My second question is addressed to Mr Gates of the US Air Force. The SPO, one of your services, gave our country a reply to a questionnaire a few weeks ago. Is it true that the Belgian Defence Department has concerned you with a number of theoretical models about the future operational deployment of our F-16s so that you have, on the basis of that, made an assessment of the load, lifespan and so on?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u16	Gentlemen, you have a lot of questions to answer. Before we go any further, I would like to make a comment. I would ask you to be careful in answering questions that touch on the ongoing procedure for the replacement file of the F-16. For example, I do not think it is wise to answer questions about economic compensation. I believe that no one wants the current procedure to be compromised.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u17	Lots of questions. What I am going to do: I will try and cover a lot of simplicity between many of these questions. I will give kind of the overview answer and then I will turn to my colleagues for detailed structural analysis. First, for F-16, I heard the terms "SLEP" and "extension" used a lot. I want to be very careful here with the words that we use. It is not possible to extend the certified service life of a Block-15 with the information that we have right now. Extending the service life, much what we are doing to our Block-40 and Block-50 aircraft in the United States Air Force, was only done after we did full scale durability testing. We actually took an aircraft and put it into a machine and vibrationd it for many hours until it broke into pieces. Then, we can take the information from that and extract it and determine which pieces needed to be rebuilt, replaced, or have duplicates put on them, so that we could extend the life past the certified service life. I have heard the term "soft SLEP" and I assume this is what you mean. I will draw an analysis here for an automobile. There is a difference between highway miles and city miles. City miles, or even off road miles, are much rougher on your vehicle than highway miles. You are on a nice, smooth road on a highway mile and you are not doing hard accelerations or breaking or any of that kind of stuff. So it wears a lot less on the vehicle than stop and go or hitting a lot of potholes that you would see in the city. So all we are explaining here, is that there is a difference in methodology, that we could go from actual to equivalent flight hours, and that is taken into account that you have flown a lot of highway miles that were a lot easier on your aircraft structure. Hence we determine a severity factor, and that severity factor will give you an idea of how many equivalent flight hours you can get to. It's still 8 000. That's the number. But it is what it is equivalent flight hours or actual flight hours. So right now, what Lockheed has done, is they have rudimentary data of a small sample set, a small population of the aircraft, I believe the number is 16, that do have data recorders on them. They have tasks that inform. In a perfect world, they would have had the IAT, they would have had individual recorders on every aircraft since day one, and you would have a very accurate picture of what your severity factor is right now. That hasn't been there. So they have a very small sample. And they are forecasting what they believe the severity factor will be. What they and I are recommending is that, if you are going to go to equivalent flight hours, in accordance with the structural bulletin that the United States has put out, you will still need to collect 90 percent of that data off of each of the aircraft and then you can use that data to figure out what your severity factor is. So, in the short term, they are saying it probably will be possible. They will then need to collect two to three years worth of data before they can define those numbers. And it's kind of a gamble right now. It could turn out so that the data they have right now, might have been all highway miles. And there could be a whole lot more city miles that are coming in your future. So that grace factor will be continuously updated with all the data that they receive. So that diversity factor right now, which is less than one, which gives you the hope that you could switch to effective equivalent flight hours, it could go the opposite on you. You could find out that you are driving a lot more city miles and it is actually going to reduce the number of equivalent flight hours that you will get before you hit 8 000 in your certified life. So with that, I will turn it over to Tom and see what he wants to fill in.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u18	I will try to expound a little bit on what colonel Gates said with regard to EFH and AFH, because there seems to be a lot of confusion. I am hearing a lot of questions from the body related to those two calculations. As colonel Gates said, it is a manner in which we relate the use of your aeroplane to how it was certified. Your aeroplanes were certified to an 8 000 hour requirement. In order to extend that requirement, that would be the definition of a SLEP. SLEP means you are extending the certified service life of your aeroplane. So when you hear the term "soft SLEP" that is not an extension of your certified service life. That is simply getting to the 8 000 hours the aeroplane was originally designed for, but because it has flown harder or not flown exactly the way we designed it, we have to do some structural modifications to make sure it will actually get to that 8 000 hours. On top of that, you have the AHF/EFH calculation. So if you are recording your data and you know exactly how your aeroplanes were flown, then we can look at that data and we can say: you are either flying or less severe than we designed the aeroplane for. There your equivalent flight hours, based on that 8 000 hour certification, the severity factor is greater than one or less than one. In your case, it is less than one, based on our preliminary investigation of the limited data that we have gotten off of your rotor FACE recorders. As the colonel said, in an ideal world we would like to have at least 90 percent of the capture rate. The mill standard that the US Air Force employees does have a requirement for IAT-data with a 90 percent capture rate. So that is where that information comes from, that is where that requirement is driven from. Let me look through the rest of your questions here. Knowing all of that information, what is the procedure if you do want to extend your certified service life, which is what the USAF has done on their Block-40 and Block-50 aeroplanes. I hear someone say the Block-15 being the same as the Block-40 or 50. It's not. It is a very different airframe from a structure standpoint. As the colonel alluded to, to extend the certified service life, you would need to take a Block-15 airframe, subject it to a full scale durability test, which as he alluded to is the shaking of the aeroplane, to determine what the longest life time we could get would be, based on your requirements. Supply you would come to us with a requirement to get 10 000 hours out of the airframe, for example. We would design a test programme to try to achieve that 10 000 hour design life. We would test the aeroplane to 20 000 hours, which is the requirement, it's a two-lifetime test. Then we would do various modifications to the structure to ensure that it achieved that life, either during the test or prior to the test, depending on how your retrofit programme was going to be structured. Then we would have to run the test through all those things, apparently identifying things that break or have issues, as we go along. There is no guarantee that it will actually get to that point, because the structure may get to a point where it simply can't go any further and we've got all the life out of it that we are going to get. So, there is a significant amount of risk with that. Especially, I would say, with the Block-15 structure, because it is a much weaker and lighter designed aeroplane than the post Block-, the Block-40's and 50's. So that is the process for extending the certified service life. It's a full-scale durability test to two-lifetimes. That is why there is no Block-15 users right now that are seeking a certified life extension, because that testing doesn't exist and it is very extensive. I am reading through the questions. There was a question about what we could guarantee the airworthiness beyond 8 000 hours. My answer would be right now your aeroplane is certified to 8 000 hours, so I cannot guarantee it beyond 8 000 hours at this point, without further testing or certification to do so. Do we have studies dealing with the entire aeroplane, not just structure? I am going to ask that question to Mr. McSpadden, as he is more involved with the rest of the airframe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u19	We have conducted studies on the other parts of the aircraft, like the wiring of the aircraft, the electrical generators. Over time, as these components get overhauled and re-overhauled, they become with a reliability that is not as good onto some other components. Also, if we want to change for instance the radar on your aircraft, we would also have to upgrade environmental control systems. So, one system impacts the other system. You have to take those things into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u20	I believe one of you asked about the production line. Currently the F-16 production line is closed. There is a plan to start it up again in the near future, but as of right now it is closed. What is required to use the EFH calculations that we discussed? It would be retrofitting your aeroplanes with flight data recorders. We would like to have them on all your aeroplanes. We would like to capture 90% of your data. That's the requirement in the middle standard, in a perfect world. The 90% is probably not as hard a line as having recorders on all your aeroplanes. So, if you had them on all your aeroplanes and some of them were not working, leaving us with 80%, that would be acceptable in my opinion. I would be willing to certify that. However, to go down to much less than that, like where we are now, at a 16 to 20% range, we cannot sign on for that. Much like you would not sign on for a budget when you only have 20% of the information. I cannot make a very good prediction based on that. We will try, but it is a risky proposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u21	I will jump back in with the very first question I had: will the United States continue to support the Belgian fleet out to 2037 or whatever the date was? Absolutely. Much like we are supporting you now, the United States will continue to support you. The one thing you need to consider is that, much like the automotive analysis, the older your car gets, the harder and harder it is to find pieces and parts for that car. You need to start taking into consideration the tires, the suspension, the radio, the engine, the transmission, the spinning;... You need to consider all of this. What I am telling you is that this structures report is just one small piece of that puzzle. We have told you what the structures are. But you still need to consider the landing gear and everything else that is a piece of that aircraft. Many of the avionics and the equipment that you have on your aircraft are more than 20 years old. When you are considering what you are going to replace it or not, there is the initial defence cost, but then there is also the recycling operations and maintenance cost. How much are you willing to spend? If you keep your F-16's, your procurement costs will be fairly small. Your operations and maintenance bill will start to grow significantly. There was a question of corrosion. All F-16's are unique. Each aircraft is unique. Some of them have water intrusion or penetration points that we are unaware of. So if your aircraft sits out on the flight line and gets rained on, if something is not working exactly right and everything is draining, you will not know that until you open that aircraft up. We continuously bring the United States fleet into depot to do maintenance on them, to do modifications, to do structural checks, much like the maintenance you happen to do. We find corrosion within some cabins in that aircraft. We call that over and above work. Our over and above bill is going up significantly as we are finding corrosion in places that we could not forecast or plan for. So, we have to budget additional money at all times for every time we open an aircraft. We have a budget of so many hours and so many dollars, in case we find corrosion within those. So, once again, an older automobile or an older aircraft, the longer you keep it around, the more likely it is that you will find corrosion. There was a memo on structures and the question was if there was anything else that would need to be upgraded. I thought there was a question about here that there was a contradiction between the memo that I had written. The memo that I had written said that you were focusing only on structures. If you are going to keep your F-16's operationally relevant, for the defence of Belgium, there are a lot of other pieces that you need to consider upgrading. Right now, the United States, with our Block-40's and 50's that we are dragging, we are also doing a large number of modifications to improve many of the avionics systems, defence and attack systems on that aircraft, to keep it operationally relevant, within the emerging environment. I'll turn that over to colonel Weaver to see if he has any inputs on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u22	I think the question was how long is the US Air Force planning to fly the F-16's. Right now we are predicting that we will have the planet into the 2040's. But I would like to caveat that: that will be a small portion of the fleet, that is probably about 20 years newer than the Belgian F-16's. As colonel Gates said, we are spending a significant amount of money to upgrade those aircraft with all new avionics to keep them operationally viable. It is costing a lot of money. The reason we are doing this is because replacement programs haven't come along as fast as we thought they would, and because we had 946 F-16's in the US Air Force inventory. In order to maintain the fleet size that we need, we just can't get after the replacements quick enough. For our F-16's we are having to split our costs between modernisation or buying new aircraft and keeping the ones that we have operationally viable. I would say, to remain operationally viable even if the service life could be extended, the Belgian aircraft would need to go through similar type of avionics upgrades that the US Air Force aircraft have. I would like to say that I recommend the Belgian government and the Belgian defence forces for their sustained and sustained support in coalition operations. If Belgium wishes to continue in the same manner that they have in the past, these upgrades or new aircraft will be required. To upgrade the F-16 with just a few years, even if you can get a few more years out of it, to me, would require a significant amount of investment for very little return on your investment in those years and operational environments that it could operate in.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u23	Thank you for your answers. I'll open a second round of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u24	I have a question for engineer Jones. If you say that you need to capture 90% of the data. What do you do with the historical data? Did I understand you correctly when you stated that you need these IAT trackers over a period of two to three years? Is that efficient to compensate, so to speak, for historical data? Can you just buy IAT trackers and if we apply them correctly about two or three years, then we can predict the future of every aircraft? Did I understand that well?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u25	You did understand that correctly. We would take the data we have to date from your face recorders and from your neighbouring partners in the IPAF. I believe that we've used that to develop the spectrum that we currently analyse your aeroplanes with. Going forward, we would use the new IAT data to verify if the older calculations see viable, with the assumption that perhaps you are still flying in a manner similar to what you have been for the last five or six years, with the verification of your services. That's how we would take that data and use it to go forward. Once we have that IAT established and the data recorded, we could start to start looking at the EFH possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u26	So it is not necessary to have that over the whole life of the aeroplane?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u27	That is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u28	Madam Chair, I have several questions to ask. We received, earlier, fairly comprehensive information about a series of discount programs that were applied to our aircraft. Were you aware of that? In your studies on the lifespan of our aircraft, have you considered these discount programs? You're saying that extending the F-16s would cost a lot. Can you quantify this cost? Has this budget been asked of you, particularly with the latest report in recent days? Your F-16s are newer. I understand that the Belgians wanted to extend theirs because the F-35 replacement programmes are not satisfactory. How were they not satisfactory to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u29	Thank you for your answers. I have two questions for mister Jones. You said that for the Block-15's we have, we need to be very careful to expect the 8 000 actual flight hours because of the structure of the aircraft. Can you elaborate a little bit more on that? Why should we be careful in this exercise? Secondly, Colonel Gates explained that the soft SLEP is an exercise to obtain these certified 8,000 hours. Are there Belgian aircraft, based on the information you have, that needs a soft SLEP in order to obtain the 8,000 hours? I have yet one question, a confirmation. I do not know if I have understood you correctly, Colonel Gates. It is not possible to extend the certified service life of our Block-15? Is that correct? Needed that is financial. That would mean that we can only extend by using a hard SLEP, or is it not possible at all? If it is not possible at all, we do not need to have the discussion about extension. If you, as a manufacturer, say we do not certify an extension. Can you please be a little bit cleaner on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u30	I would like to submit to you the analysis that Colonel Decrop carried out earlier. He said we can extend the life of the F-16 six-year-olds with an upgrade and an investment. It estimated that this would cost about 100 million per year during these six years, while the immediate purchase of new combat aircraft would cost about 250 million euros. I do not convert to dollars because I do not know the evolution of the euro/dollar exchange rate. We are talking about EUR 100 million for six years or 250 million for six years. You have reported that we are at your side in some operations. In this regard, Colonel Decrop added that this allowed us to maintain the current level of ambition of the Belgian army, i.e. to maintain 54 aircraft instead of just 34. It's a big difference when you know today's threats. This is not the time to lower the level of ambition. Do you think that this idea was on the road and that it was a possible statement? He said, which is not unimportant, that it allowed to take stock of other possible aircraft. You said that the replacement program had not been "as fast as possible". Do you understand that the delays in the delivery of the F-35s bother you and that they would have led you to extend the life of the F-16s? Is it this question that forces you to keep your F-16s? That would be an interesting argument for us, because we have the same kind of problem with our future planes. Thirdly, Mr. Jones, you say that the production line is stopped, but that it will resume. I wish I'd known more. I have information that Vice President Mike Pence "announces the signature of a deal" for 16 aircraft with Bahrain. Another piece of information dates back to January 2018 and says that production is restarting and Lockheed Martin is strong to sell at least 200 F-16 aircraft in the future. Can you tell us a little more about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u31	Mr Dallemagne, you asked a question about the price of the F-35. I suspect that the speakers will not be able to comment on this because of the current procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u32	I asked if it was the delay in the delivery of the F-35s that forced the U.S. army to extend its F-16s, or whether it had motivated its wish to do so. This has nothing to do with the cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u33	My gentlemen's representatives from Lockheed Martin, say that our government also decides to investigate the slope to make the 8,000 actual flying hours effective flying hours. If we put this demand, how long will it take to get an answer from Lockheed Martin and could we get an idea of the costs it will bring for the structure as well for all the other things?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u34	Gentlemen representatives of Lockheed Martin, you just spoke about the need not only to look at metal fatigue, body and structure but also to upgrade the avionics, the software. Are you aware of the Belgian programme to do just that? Indeed, in 2017, the Council of Ministers decided to upgrade our radar systems, communication, detection and so on. That is in full development. It is the objective and ambition to upgrade our devices and keep them interoperable by 2030. Colonel Gates, second of all, I didn't get an answer to my question about SPO. How did the replies to the new recent questionnaire come about? Have you received a number of theoretical models from the Belgian Defence Department about the future deployment of our F-16s? If so, which models were they? Were there heavy operational models between them, which are purely theoretical?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u35	Madam President, may I ask the various speakers who are about to answer systematically to specify which Blocks, which planes are involved? We're talking about F-16. We have in Belgium the oldest F-16s in the world. As part of a possible extension, you're talking about the F-16 Americans, but they're not the same. Systematic confusion prevails. I ask the question, even though I have already heard the answer. Under Block-15 (our aircraft), it is not currently possible to obtain certification beyond 8,000 hours. This is not the case for American aircraft (Block-40 or 50). They are much more technologically advanced and would allow for adaptations aimed at extension. Do I understand correctly? Belgian aircraft cannot be extended in the present state of affairs, but American aircraft can. Thank you for systematically reminding you of what planes you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u36	We will do this much the same way. I will start off again. So, since your question was last, you were asking about United States Block-50's versus Belgian Block-15's. There are a couple of big differences. First, structurally, they are not the same. The structures, the strength, the beefiness that they put into those as the production line progressive, are different. We were learning through that production line that we needed stronger structures. So, even though they might look like if you hero them side by side, their bones are very different. The framework and the strength of their frames are very different. Also on the Block-50's we have done a full-scale durability test. This was about a three-year test, where we have a giant rig and we put an aircraft into it. It is a destructive test. We vibrate that aircraft until it breaks. There, from that data, we can design a SLEP program. So, this kind of goes back to your answer at the same time: can a SLEP programme be designed for the Block-15? Yes. It would take you probably about three years. It would be a destructive test. We would need to take one of your aircraft and put it into that machine and vibrate it, and it would destroy that aircraft. We could then determine which pieces need to be replaced. I would not make a prediction about that, but I would say your probability of success of going beyond the 8 000 hours is probably very small. I will give Tom a chance to reply to that. So, I am trying to make sure I answered your question. There are very different bones between the Block-50 and the Block-15. Ours are about 20 years newer. There are a lot less hours on them and we have done the full-scale durability test on that to determine what pieces need to be replaced. So: very different.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u37	Another difference between the Block-15 and the Block-40's and 50's: when we originally designed the F-16, the AB aircraft, we really designed for an air-to-air mission. And when we went to the CD-version, which the US Air Force flies now, it is really an air-to-air and an air-to-ground mission. So the payload was more for the USAF aeroplane, so the structure was bigged up. So the bow cage had thicker webs, thicker phalanges, this more beefy structure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u38	Tom, did you want to jump in on the possibility of doing a SLEP for the Block-15 and what it would take?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u39	As the colonel said, to do the SLEP we would take one of your jets out of service, or a Block-15 – it does not necessarily have to be one of yours, but it would have to be a Block-15 airframe. We would configure that airframe to match your airframe as it exists today. We would begin cycling that aeroplane with loads to represent your design usage going forward. We would come to you and you would help us establish a design usage for your aeroplane intending on how you plan to use it going forward. And then we would cycle that aeroplane through a number of hours of that test, equal to two times whatever your life extension goal would be. We would come to you and you would help us establish a design use for your aeroplane trending on how you plan to use it going forward. And then we would cycle that aeroplane through a number of hours of that test, equal to two times of what your end life extension goal would be. Through that testing, we would then identify weaknesses in the airframe that we would modify, either through the life of the test or prior to the test if we can identify them ahead of time. We would validate these modifications are surviving two-lifetimes of your design service life. That's what a SLEP program would look like. All of these modifications that were developed through the testing would then become production modifications on your aeroplanes. So you would go out, much like you did with Falcons Star, if you are familiar with that, which was a structural modification for your aeroplanes, and you would have put these on your aeroplane with in some cases a complete replacement of parts with new ones that are much improved from a strong standpoint as the colonel alluded to. But because that airframe was very light in its original design, the probability of success for that type of program is questionable. We were successful with the Block-50, but it is a much heavier aeroplane to begin with. It's hard for me to put a number on that for you, which I recognize is probably what you would like to have, but I don't see it going a lot beyond 8,000 hours for the cost of that test.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u40	Madam President, what I have just heard leaves me very puzzled. So if you want one of our 54 F-16s – we only want 34 of them anyway – take one, destroy it and tell us how many hours it is no longer valid. That is no problem. More seriously, in May 2016, at an international meeting in which Lockheed Martin presented a keynote speech, a comprehensive study of the entire Blocks was presented showing that F-16s can be extended beyond 8,000 hours of flight time. A member of the Belgian Defence who knows very well that these are Blocks-15 ask you the question, Lockheed Martin, who know that we have Blocks-15, if it is possible, in the case of the Belgian fleet, to extend them beyond 8,000 hours. The report you're submitting in April 2017 says yes. The question you were asked was not whether it was possible to extend the 3,000 F-16s flying around the world. The question you were asked was specific. It was as follows: Are the 54 Belgian F-16s, who are from Block-15, Mr. Thiéry, renovable with the aim of reaching at least 9 500 hours? You replied that, yes, in April 2017, in a fairly thick official report that we were able to consult. You confirmed this information in February 2018 and this information, these two reports are relevant to Block-15. As my colleague has pointed out - and I agree with all colleagues - these reports concern only the structure that is problematic. As far as avionics and the rest are concerned, we have been told here, a few hours ago, that a number of colossal investments had indeed been decided for several tens of millions of dollars. Mr. De Vriendt said so. These investments are aimed at equipping our F-16s with the latest technical and avionics provisions. You are now coming with very interesting technical arguments, which I hear well, but I do not understand why you are changing your attitude between what you are saying tonight and the two reports that have been made before. I am sorry, Mr Gates, but if I consider what has been said about the modernization of avionics, we obviously do not need a modern avionics. We just decided. In addition, I am informed that another report, the SPO (System Programme Office) report, appears to be systematically based on a reorientation of the findings of the two Lockheed Martin reports issued in April 2017 and February 2018. What changed your mind? Why, suddenly, did both U.S. Army representatives and Lockheed Martin change their mind about the initial reports and what had been presented to F-16 partners in May 2016? Why, suddenly, should the Belgian F-16s of Block-15 be replaced?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u41	Madam President, as it is late, I can admit that we do not remember all the questions asked by colleagues. For my part, I asked three questions but I did not get any answers. None! I'll take them back, unless you've written them down. First, where are the production chains? I have information that we are going to produce in any case for Bahrain but probably also for other Gulf states. An additional 200 F-16s are expected to be produced. What about it? When does production resume? When will these planes be delivered? Second, are problems with the F-35 forcing us to continue with the F-16? Nor did I receive an answer to that question. Finally, does the Decrop column scenario stand the way? I repeat briefly. It involves delaying orders by six years, which saves us 150 million euros a year. This does not endanger anyone at all, while allowing us to maintain our level of ambition while in the event of a purchase, it would be lowered. Is this scenario on the road?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u42	I have a question for engineer Jones. If I understand correctly, if you do the SLEP, you take our Block-15 Aircraft and do the test and you identify the wearnesses. You do some modifications. There you say that you are not sure that we will end up beyond 8,000 flight hours. Are these equivalent 8,000 hours or are these monthly nominal flight hours? Can you also specify the following words: "I don't think we'll end up long beyond 8 000."? What do you mean by not that long? Is that 500? Is that 1,000? Is that 1,500? Is that much less? I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u43	Madam President, I have two further questions which are in line with those of Mr Hellings. Gentlemen of US Air Force, it's a little confusing. We received two memos from you, one from April 2017 and one from February 2018. It says that it is possible to extend the lifespan. Then the Minister orders another study in March. That's what US Air Force says it's only gonna cost $1 billion for a short extension of six years. Today you say that it is impossible and will cost a lot of money. How come you bring a completely different story in two memos, in a final study, answers that it is only possible to cost 1 billion, and today gives a completely different version? I would have liked some clarification on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u44	I will start once again. I must say that having a whole bunch of questions and trying to take notes and trying to get back to them is a little frustrating. So I will go in reverse order. We'll start with the questions of Mr. Yüksel. You were probably referring to the two memos that came out of Lockheed Martin. Once again I need to bring you back to what I state originally. Extending the life is what we call a SLEP. To do that, we need to do the full-scale durability testing. We need to destroy an aircraft. It will take several years to do that and then I don't know what your probability of success of getting a lot of life out of that is. The difference between actual flight hours and equivalent flight hours is highway versus city miles. The 8 000 hours of certified life still remain. It's just a matter of what they are actual or equivalent flight hours. So I think we are getting hung up on extending. I'm just trying to be very careful and try not to use the word "extending" without we are going to actually do a full-scale durability test and change structural components in your aircraft. So, you will actually get more years of flying out of your aircraft if you convert to equivalent flight hours. Right now, that is what Lockheed Martin is forecasting because your security factor is less than one. But once we start recording that data, it could go the other way. You could find out that all the assumptions they have made have been based on highway miles when you're driving a lot of city miles. So it could turn out that after three years of collecting data and when they revise their numbers, that your severity factor goes up significantly above one, which in effect will give you less actual years of flying your aircraft. So that's something that you need to take into consideration. I think the only difference between both memos that Lockheed Martin has put out was that Lockheed Martin gave an original severity factor in the 0.8 range and now they are giving a severity factor in the 0.6 range. That was the only contradicting and I believe that the second memo corrected the first. So I don't believe that the memos disagreed with each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u45	I would agree with that and I think that's where the confusion lies. When you say "extend service life", for me that is a SLEP. That is an extension of your certified service life. The memos we provided are talking about converting to equivalent flight hours. Those are two very different things for me as an engineer. We are getting hung up on communication between you and me on what we understand that memos to be. So, just to clarify, if you do convert to equivalent flight hours, you can fly further past 8,000 hours in terms of actual flight hours. But the certified life of the aircraft is still that 8,000 hour limit. But it's because you have been driving more highway miles, to use the colonel's analogy, that you can go a little further in your life. To get back to the gentleman that asked about the production line, I will let Mr. McSpadden answer that question. Madam Chairman, I would also like to ask if we can do the questions one at the time. It will be better for us in terms of the translation and writing. It would help to have all of your questions answered. We're not trying to not to answer them it's just hard to keep track of all of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u46	The production line for the F-16 is stopped right now. There is a gap in production. We expected that. We are very close to have a contract for sixteen new F-16/Block-70 aircraft. We expect that contract in May, to restore the production line. So we should be delivering aircraft off the production line in early 2023. We do have other customers that have asked for new F-16's. We are working with the Air Force to respond to those queries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u47	Until when do you expect to continue this production line?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u48	There are numerous FMS customers lining up. As long as there is a demand, the production line will stay open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u49	One of the questions concerned what caused us to keep the F-16 longer than originally planned. The answer is a complex one. You need to go back several decades to the time of acquisition, to the budget decisions and the political decisions that were made in the past. More recently, force structure decisions we've made determine how big of a force we need to keep. Those adjustments along the way and other aircraft buy rates also contribute to figuring out how long we keep those aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u50	Has the delivery time of the F-35 affected your decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u51	The delay on the F-35 delivery does not affect the force structure of the 20/40's we are talking about. It probably led to the delaying of the retirement of some of our older F-16.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u52	This has helped in your decision to extend the lifespan of the F-16s.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u53	I can't say which decisions were taken in the past. Those would have been taken before I was in a position to see that. I can't say definitively what caused us to retain those aircraft. That may have a bearing on it, but I don't know. It makes sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u54	I think that would be worth a clearer answer. It is clear that this has an impact. I do not see why we should turn to this question. In reading the press, we can see that the difficulties in the development of the F-35 mean that the American army could not have had the number of F-35 aircraft expected, and therefore they are obliged to...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u55	Mr Dallemagne, is that relevant?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u56	I'm sorry, we're at the very heart of the problem. The question here is whether we should not extend our F-16s because other aircraft, including the F-35, are not operationally ready. We are at the heart of the problem and I ask that there be a clear answer to this question. I understand that it bothers some people, but I want a clear answer to that question. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u57	No, it's at the heart of the problem. Tell me how it's not at the heart of the problem. This is obviously an essential question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u58	Mr Vandenput has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u59	I think my interlocutor wanted to complete his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u60	Mr Dallemagne, perhaps you could ask the question again. I don't think people know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u61	All right? Don't you know what we're talking about? We are talking about the extension by the U.S. Army of the use of the F-16s.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u62	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u63	Excuse me, I have the floor, Mr. Thiéry. That is exactly the question we are asking ourselves here in Belgium. This is a question that I think is relevant. In particular, I am trying to understand, and I hear that the difficulties in developing the F-35 program are probably a reason why the American army wishes not to get rid of its F-16s. I just wanted to have that clarification and be sure I understood it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u64	Again, it is a very complex answer. But I can say we did not decide not to retire F-16 because of issues with the F-35. There are force structure decisions that we make based on the current climate and the current mission needs. It is not a "one for one" decision either. The capabilities of different aircraft are all taken into account in our force structure decisions. I can't say definitively that that is… or I can say definitively that there are no issues with the F-35 that have caused us to delay or to SLEP the F-16, so to make those kind of force structure. Does that make sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u65	Mr Jones, I asked you a question about the F-16/Block-15. You say that we need to be careful in obtaining these 8,000 actual flight hours because of the structure of the aircraft. Can you elaborate a little bit more on that? What do you mean by that? And then, secondly, do we need a soft SLEP in order to obtain these 8 000 actual flight hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u66	I'm not sure what you mean by being careful to get 8 000 hours. If I said it that way maybe I misspoke… But you are currently certified 8 000 actual flight hours. In terms of a soft SLEP, there's a number of structural changes that you are currently doing on the Falcon X program and there is probably going to be some additional modifications that may be required. I can't tell you what that is right now. We would have to do a study on your aeroplanes to figure that out. But it's very similar that there would be some additional structural modifications required. As those things are identified as you use the aeroplanes and that would be what you would define as a soft SLEP.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u67	To be very clear. Mr Dallemagne, we didn't order F-35's yet. I heard the whole day that we already ordered. Perhaps you can confirm that there isn't already a purchase order within the US Air Force for F-35's. Perhaps, you can confirm that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u68	I am not a part of the F-35 programme. I know that a Request for Government Proposal has come out. I am pretty sure that the United States Government has asked that. That is all that I know about the F-35 program.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u69	I just wanted to make sure I got it right. You're prolonging your F-16s. I understand, Mr. Thiéry, that the F-16s are not the same as ours. I understand that, I assure you. I was there to distribute brains and ears. I heard it and I understood it. Nevertheless, you are telling us that you are extending your F-16s because F-35 programs do not satisfy you for reasons that, obviously, you cannot explain to us. I can hear it. You do so to give you the opportunity to see and see other opportunities. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but that is exactly one of the arguments put forward earlier by Colonel Decrop to extend our own planes, even in the very short term: it was to allow time to have other possibilities, because today, with the procedure put in place by the government, there are only two aircraft models left on the table, including the F-35. I find my colleague Mr Dallemagne's questions extremely relevant when we know that there are only two... Excuse me? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u70	But yes, but do you allow me to intervene or censor the interventions as well? Maybe you're president, too? What I wanted to stress here is that the specialists present here, who enlighten us and whom I thank for their information – at least we have information without filters today, or in any case without the Belgian Defence filter – tell us that they extend their own planes, even if they are not the same as ours (I say it again, I did integrate it well) because the F-35s do not meet their expectations. They extend them for a period they do not define yet, the time to see other opportunities. Excuse me, I repeat, that is exactly one of the arguments expressed in favour of the extension of our aircraft, even in the short term, by Colonel Decrop earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u71	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, have you actually asked a specific question? It has escaped me in your evil message.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u72	I just wanted to ask if my reasoning is good, if you're prolonging your F-16 planes well... I thought it was clear, but I'm going to repeat it. I can do it in Spanish if it's easier. My question is this: Do you actually extend the F-16s for an undefined duration because the F-35 program today does not meet your expectations – I understand it would be complex to explain to us how it does not meet your expectations – the time also to see other opportunities coming on the table for replacement? Otherwise, what is the option? If the F-35s do not meet your expectations and you extend your F-16s, while waiting for what do you extend them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u73	I believe that the question is… It's putting words in my mouth that I didn't say. So we didn't extend the F-16 because we are unhappy with the F-35. We keep around for four structure decisions and that is based on a lot of factors outside of the F-35. Impacts made by current operations and other aircraft in the US inventory are issues that I just cannot get into this body.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u74	Excuse me, but I don't know which one of you two said at the beginning of his speech – I didn't notice exactly: "We're extending our F-16s because the F-35 replacement programs don't give us satisfaction." That's the sentence that was said. We'll take back the annals of the House. I have no difficulty with that. Excuse me, but that's what was said at the start of the intervention of I no longer know which of these gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u75	I didn't say the F-35. I said other aircraft for replacement. There are other aircraft that we have purchased besides the F-35.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u76	Do I understand you correctly? In the first round, you said that after 8 000 hours of flight, you cannot guarantee airworthiness for the F-16/Block-15. US Air Force provided a memo on the date of April 5, 2018. In that context, last Friday, General Debaene said it would be a huge cost. He mentioned the amount of $1 billion. Can you tell us what's in that $1 billion? What longer use can therefore be achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u77	So, the figure of one billion was just a rough order magnitude and that was based on avionic upgrades that are in process for other F-16 forces. I haven't seen the operational requirements for the Belgian Air Force. So, like I said, it was a guess on my part. I would need to see operational requirements from the Belgian Air Force to give you a refined number.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u78	You say that the 1 billion is an estimate and that you first need to know what the operational need is. Can we then use that amount of 1 billion and the study in the evaluation we are currently making?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u79	The only reason why I put that number in there was to give a scale. You're in the billions not in the millions. If you're looking to upgrade your fleet of 54 aircraft to an operationally relevant configuration to face the merging threats that you see in these days. I was just trying to let you that you're in the billions of dollars for an upgrade of F-16 fleet and not in the millions of dollars.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u80	So, the information in those three reports from Lockheed are based on very preliminary data and very small subset of data. Very rudimentary if you compare to how much data we collect on the USAF fleet versus what you are collecting on Belgian fleet. It is a very small subset of data. So, that's what they are forecasting right now. They will not know the actual numbers until they get recorders on each of those aircraft and they collect a certain amount of data, years worth of data. Then they will continuously refin those numbers. It is a dynamic moving thing. The more you drive your car, the more you wear it out. The more you fly your jets, the more you wear them out. It is a dynamic thing and, right now, it is a guess because we have only established there is little data to go on right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u81	We did the study in coordination with your asset managers and your engineers for the Belgian Air Force, so the study was never intended to go to the audience that it has gone to today. When we wrote it, we wrote it with the intent that another engineer would be reading it. So, whether you want to call it preliminary or whether you want to call it a small amount of data, the basis for the study is very limited. Therefore if you read the second appendix, there is some language in there that basically says that if you want to take advantage of the EFH, you need to install recorders on all your aeroplanes and do the IAT-programme, which we've talked about. I think we made that really clear in the memo, that we're not guaranteeing an extension of life. It's more of a "this is what you could get if you convert to EFH criteria" and that was the intent of the study and what it was intended to deliver to the engineers that we sent it to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u82	However, even though the study is intended for an audience of engineers, in your study, which has a beginning and an end, the conclusion is that the Belgian F-16 fleet can be kept in the air longer. Your conclusion is not that you have too little data and therefore do not draw a conclusion and do not make a prognosis. No, you've made a prognosis and it's not that there's a problem and that the planes need to be taken out of the air faster, as the severity factor would be greater than 1. Lockheed Martin is a serious company, your methodology is correct and you don't make a prognosis based on the data you have at your disposal extrapolation, which states that the Belgian F-16 fleet can stay in the air longer than initially provided, if one converts to equivalent flight hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u83	That's correct. We did say you can fly beyond 8,000 actual flight hours, if you convert to equivalent flight hours. I'm not debating that statement. I think we've said that here today and if that hasn't come across, we're not communicating it cleanly enough for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u84	Good, but there is sometimes the impression that you do not actually have enough data to be sure. My point is that you made a choice in your study and therefore apparently had sufficient data at your disposal to make that prognosis. If you hadn't had enough data, you would have decided in your study that you couldn't meet the demand of the Defense Department, as you didn't have enough data at your disposal. You have concluded that when converted to equivalent flight hours, the oldest Belgian F-16s should not leave the air in 2023, but let us say at least six years later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u85	I believe those were all projections. In the report I have here right in front of me, it says they are projections. I don't see a conclusion drawn in it at all or anything guaranteeing the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u86	That's correct and it is based on a very limited amount of data. As the colonel said earlier, when we collect the data for the enter fleet we could get a completely different picture in terms of severity factor. If I would put a painting on the wall here and show you only 20 % of it, I could put two paintings on the wall and show you only 20 % of each of them and leave you to decide who drew those paintings. It may be very different to predict that. That's what you are asking me to do as an engineer when I look at those data. But because you did ask for that and I do have a relation with your ASIP managers and your programme, we provided that data for you knowing the risk involved in the limited bases it was developed on and knowing how they intended to use it, more for maintenance actions and inspection actions rather than extending the service-life of the fleet or converting to AHF for the fleet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u87	You are referring to Falcon STAR and Falcon UP, which have modification programmes we have completed. Without those there was a limited life on the original AB aeroplanes. I can't remember if it was 6 000 hours but that sounds about right based on when those modifications were put on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u88	A lot of discussion is taking place here as a result of the question I asked, but I would like to be clear to my fellow Members: the certified service life of our Block-15 cannot be increased. So we cannot go beyond 8 000 hours unless we do the three-year stress test, and even then we still have a very limited chance. After all, it is actually building a new aircraft, creating a new prototype and applying it. So I do not think that we should do that, nor should we ask for it. The discussion is actually about switching from actual to equivalent. We only have data of 20%. The question now is whether we will continue to measure to find out further. I also understand, however, that this is something that can fall out in two ways, it can be more, but it can also be less. I thought I'd make this summary for my colleagues. We should be like-minded about that and not go out here with other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u89	Madam President, I would like to thank the four speakers. For me, the following is very clear. First, the F-16/Block-15 actually consists of the weaker devices in the F-16 series. Secondly, the maximum number of flight hours, actual flight hours, is 8 000 hours. Thirdly, only if one would assume that an equivalent hour has received less heavy resistance than the factor 1 could possibly be there... However, I would like to end with the remark made by Colonel Letten who literally said earlier that his main concern is that Belgian F-16 aircraft can actually reach 8 000 hours of flight time. I think I got it so well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u90	Madam Chair, I thank the people we have invited. I would like to make a suggestion. Next time Mr. Van der Maelen takes out a note, we could start by inviting the authors of the note. It would save us a lot of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u91	That is a good suggestion, Mr Miller. Am I the only one wondering if day 2 of the hearings is still necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u92	These comments are, to say the least, hasty and partial. I'm not going to tell my truth, we'll have time to do this later. I had two answers but I had three questions. I shall therefore repeat my third question. You heard Colonel Decrop tell us this afternoon that we could extend our F-16s for another six years with the same level of ambition, the same level of commitment, the same level of security and that it would save us 900 million euros. Is this a scenario you can adhere to? I didn't get your answer on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u93	Let me clarify that question. He is saying that you can extend at the same level of security, the same level of deployment for nine trillion euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u94	He says that if we buy 34 aircraft, it will cost us 250 million euros a year. If we extend our aircraft for six years – so we buy the planes in 2029 instead of 2023 – we do not endanger our pilots and we can continue to do the same kind of missions as long as we invest 80 million per year plus 20 million euros per year, that is 100 million euros per year in our F-16s instead of 250 million. So over this period, we are saving 900 million euros, just over a billion dollars. The subsequent advantage is that we have 54 operational aircraft and not 34 – which is not negligible in relation to loyalty to our allies – and we have more time to clarify some difficulties in the development of some programs. He talked about it at length, based in particular on the studies that Lockheed Martin has done. He is one of the great connoisseurs of the F-16 fleet, he was responsible for it at DG MR level. Do you think this scenario is indeed credible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u95	First, I have never seen any calculation that the colonel Decrop has made. So I have no idea what he has based that on. All I can tell you is that your production costs will probably be small if you keep your F-16 fleet but your operational and maintenance costs, the number of maintenance man/hours you will have to expand, the number of inspections, the number of times you will have to pull your jet apart to look at it, to inspect, to ensure that there are no cracks, will significantly go up. So, I cannot give you a ratio as to 'how much if you gonna push down your production costs, your owning costs will definitely go up. I cannot put a price on the operational liability of the systems you have now against emerging threats. I will turn over to Colonel Weaver to see if he has anything to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u96	I would not be able to guess what kind of operations will be held in the future. I can say that there are potential adversaries, the threat continues to evolve…
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u97	He stated that it was at the same level of operations as it is today, which is in fact in the strategic vision of the army.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u98	Again, I am not sure about all assumptions he is making. I cannot make an educated… I cannot tell you exactly that is true or not because the threats are proliferating and are spreading. If he is talking about a location of an operation, that may change if a new threat is delivered to that location and that could change. Without knowing all the assumptions he is making going into that, I cannot make a qualified guess as to wether it is true or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u99	Gentlemen, thank you very much for having been here with us this evening. It was more than interesting. I apologize again that you had to wait such a long time and I wish you a safe flight back to Washington.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u100	Thank you, Madam Chairman, it was a pleasure to answer your questions. Thank you very much everybody.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u101	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u102	Colonel Van Pee, I'd like to speak on your quick demonstration that would destroy Colonel Decrop's. What surprises me is that his superiors didn't say anything. They have not put forward any figures, they have absolutely not contradicted Colonel Decrop. They even went so far as to say that the truth might lie between the two. I am still surprised that you, who are in an ACCaP program, are doing all the work that your operational division colleagues should have done and who are not doing it. You will have to shed light on all this and see where the apples are and where the pears are, to use your expression. Finally, to hear you, buying an F-35 does not cost more than flying a F-16. In your opinion, there are no problems or budgetary impacts! I'm surprised because you're saying he's doing the calculation on the $10 billion, but he can do it on the $4 billion investment as well. You have to count those $4 billion, but you haven't counted them in your calculation. You forget them, but you have to count them! That's 100 million more a year anyway. I regret that there is no contradiction, that he is no longer there to tell you how he made his calculation. You assume he made his calculation from the $10 billion, but he didn't tell us about it. It seems that there are some data that you do not include in your calculation. I'm surprised to hear that the CCAaP is doing this because it's not his job! It's more the job of Colonel Decrop's hierarchy, and he didn't do it earlier. Secondly, you say that you should not be distracted. You did it a little bit, though. I'd like you to do the chronology again. When do you learn that studies are underway? Obviously, you are intervening – or someone from the ACCaP – with Lockheed Martin by saying: "What are these studies? It is suggested that you are studying to extend the F-16s while on the other hand, you want to sell us new planes." We have documents that say that there have been interventions to that effect. What is the nature of your interventions? When? How do you care about these studies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u103	I would have liked to ask Colonel Van Pee a question. It's been an interesting hearing so far. I'm trying to sum it up. There are two scenarios. There is the hard SLEP that we know is about EUR 2.4 billion. You can say that this was a rational decision of the government in 2015. It had two options: either continue and modernise at a cost of 2.4 billion, or new material purchases at a cost of about 3.6 billion. In equivalents to a car one could say that one can either buy a new car for 36 000 euros or drive the existing car, but that costs 24 000 euros. If I'm gonna make the trade-off, I can ask why I'm not gonna buy a new car. So far, I can follow. A new option suddenly emerged in 2017 and 2018. The new option is to keep driving the old car. Lieutenant Colonel Decrop says this actually costs virtually nothing. What we learned today from Lockheed Martin is that the historical data is not as big a problem as they can place IAT trackers on any plane and collect those data for two to three years. On this basis it can then be examined whether or not the severity factor remains below 1. I understand that there is an important risk, because we are now in conflict, which means that we, quite paradoxically, 'fly more calmly than in peacetime' if we are running wild training flights to train our pilots properly. The latter cause more wear on the aircraft. So much for the summary. It's a pity Lieutenant Colonel Decrop isn't here. Let's say you should criticize the second option that somehow seems tempting. Indeed, what are the puzzle pieces? One can place trackers on the planes and after two to three years this basically stays below 1. This also costs virtually nothing; maybe 10 or 15 million euros. What are your criticisms of this option, in addition to all the fuss about the information that Parliament should have achieved? Anyone who has been here for ten or eleven hours will also find that all this is interesting and that we should have known that much earlier, but that is another chapter. Straight to the file itself, which salvos will you solve as a connoisseur on option B? What do you think are the weaknesses of this option?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u104	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u105	It is the counting that becomes difficult in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u106	Are those 12 actual hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u107	Madam President, first of all I would like to associate myself with my colleague, Georges Dallemagne, who regrets that the only confrontation of Mr Decrop's figures was made by Mr. Van Pee was present here for several hours, six or seven senior army officers. If the latter expressed doubts, they were not able to provide any further figures. Having said that, I would have wanted to know, gentlemen, when you were officially or informally acquainted with Lockheed Martin's reports. You confirm the figure of $15 billion and I've heard the distribution you're making. We know today that there are only two candidates officially competing for the replacement of aircraft. There is also the question of the urgency of the decision. If you don't want to get into trouble, could you share your feelings with me? Since there is no imminent urgency to replace aircraft, don't you think, given your experience and your knowledge of the file – I don't ask you to provide me with items that you can't reveal – that it would take two or three years to see, tomorrow, if other possibilities don't come on the table. I repeat that this is what the Americans are going to do, even if it is not the same planes, as was explained earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u108	Madam Chair, Mr. Dallemagne, why did the ACCaP present figures today? The answer is simple: I am convinced that these 900 million were not known by my colleagues when Colonel Decrop presented his figures. In doing so, it was normal that they should not be able to react. As far as I'm concerned, I've had time to think. On the other hand, I used our numbers; I know them well. The 250 million are not new. We explained them to you on February 24, 2016. I hope I have answered your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u109	I would just like to make a little remark. As you said, these figures were public and they were presented here. So they knew about it. In doing so, I don't understand why they didn't react like you did.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u110	Neither do I.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u111	We agree. For apples and pears, plums, etc., you have not included in your quick calculations the additional 4 billion investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u112	If you want to compare pears and pears, you have to take into account the investment costs. Indeed, the Americans said there would be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u113	I just wanted to say – I agree with my colleague, Alain Top – that it is not very healthy or very good to work as we do now. Indeed, at 10:40 p.m., we learn that a calculation would show that... Which makes my colleague from the N-VA say, "Everything's falling apart." All this is not very serious! It's starting to look like anything! I have denounced the way in which these hearings are conducted at the same time. We can see that we no longer have in front of us the interlocutors who would have allowed us to have a calm discussion. It's starting to look like anything. We're swinging millions, which means everything's collapsing. Do you think this is serious work for such a heavy case? We'd better stop. [[Tumult]] [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u114	I'm reacting. You're not the only ones who can comment! Like you, I comment, I disassemble, and your whole argument collapses at once.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u115	Mr. Dallemagne, you said that I contacted Lockheed Martin after learning about their memo. I think there's some confusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u116	You didn't have any contact with Lockheed Martin?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u117	Yes, I have almost daily contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u118	But what about these two studies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have received one question from Mr Van der Maelen, whether I was heard in the internal audit or in the external audit. I was indeed heard during the internal audit. I proposed to be heard during the external audit, so I was fully available, but apparently my presence there was no longer necessary and the audits were thus completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u120	What about the award criteria if a new element were added? Imagine the following: the market is opened, launched and suddenly a new element comes. For example, we can buy devices somewhere at one tenth of the price. We didn't see that coming. That is a new positive element that everyone recognises, apart from all the options that have been discussed here. Imagine it, such an incredibly new element that is super positive. Then what happens to the current procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u121	Colonel Van Pee, I have a question about that note. You know that note was classified. If that's a Cabinet note, how can it be classified? I thought only D.O.D. documents could be classified.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u122	I did not have the full answer to my question about the opportunity to wait perhaps a few years. Do you think that would change nothing? Maybe you think you answered me about what you told me? I can hear it, but it's to be absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u123	That's obvious. You have confirmed that in principle the government can decide at any time whether or not to sign the order form.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u124	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u125	You can still do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u126	You can still do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u127	Your procedure will continue, but at some point there will be a decision by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u128	I have two very brief questions. You just said that you could present the two offers to us in Military Purchases Commission. Within what time frame could you do so with concrete elements? My second question relates to Mr Bogaert's question. It complements it in order to have a vision of the possibilities of this procedure. You talked about a procedure that goes to the end and the government's choice to sign or not. But is it possible today to simply suspend the procedure? Can the government decide to suspend the procedure for a given reason?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u129	To answer your question about how long it takes to go through a PCLA, it's not just up to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u130	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u131	We're not ready yet. It's a matter of weeks. But after that, internal control will still have to be carried out within the Defence. We'll have to go through the finance inspector. Then we'll have to discuss it in IKW. Honestly, I don't know. Can the procedure be suspended today? To answer this question, legal counsel should be consulted because the situation is not simple. To our knowledge, there is no precedent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic872x.u132	Have all the questions been answered? [[Assent]] Then I have to say that the second day of hearings will take place on Tuesday 24 April 2018 at 10 am 00. The hearings will take place on Tuesday because there is a plenary session on Wednesday. Thank you all for being here, not least the people of the ACAP team.
