ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u1	Question No 24104 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u2	Mr.President, Minister, in July 2016, the joint Foreign Terrorism Fighters database was set up by the government. The R Committee, the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence Services, recently conducted an analysis of the central database on terrorists in Belgium. This database contains information on more than 600 fighters in Syria and other potential terrorists. It is therefore an essential tool in the fight against terrorism. However, it appears that there are many gaps in this database. First of all, it appears that some people are mistakenly recorded. However, these persons are not removed from the database on time. Moreover, while the government decided to extend the application of this database, it turns out that this decision did not have a legal basis. It is also learned that it is also not certain that all the mayors receive the names of the inhabitants of their communes who are well on this list. Finally, the report indicates that more than 1,500 people have access to the database: members of the police, intelligence services, prisons and the Foreign Office. According to the R Committee, such an expanded publication poses a security risk. Minister, how are you going to respond in practice to all the difficulties and shortcomings identified by the R Committee? Do you intend to put in place a specific action plan directly related to this Foreign Terrorism Fighters database?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u3	Mr. Vanden Burre, you're talking about people who've been "failed by mistake." It deserves to be nuanced. These are persons who were placed in pre-investigation on the basis of serious indications that they could meet the criteria. The services have six months to enrich the information about these persons. If the information cannot be corroborated, the names of these persons must be deleted from the common database. So far, it was not automatic and it could happen that a few people remained in pre-investigation for more than six months. This failure has been resolved in the meantime. After six months of pre-investigation, these people are now automatically erased. The OCAM also ensures that these people are not erased automatically, but that local services and task forces (TFL) first collect maximum information during these six months. In the very near future, the police will send an alert email as the technical manager of the database that alerts pre-investigation managers when a pre-investigator approaches the end of the six months. With regard to the extension of the database without a legal basis, two royal decrees, which provide the legal basis for the extension of the database with the categories "Homegrown Terrorist Fighters" and "Propagandists of Hate", were approved on 1 December 2017 at first reading by the Council of Ministers. At present, these texts have been adapted in the light of comments made by the Privacy Commission and the Council of State. The two royal decrees are therefore in the final phase before the signature. With regard to the information map to the mayors, a box will soon appear in the database, which will allow to trace whether and when an information map has been transmitted to the mayors. More than 1,500 people actually have access to the database. The aim is for a broad spectrum of services to be available. The problem of terrorism requires a broad approach, which makes it necessary to break the traditional institutional silo. This does not mean that everyone can access it in this way. Each department shall maintain an accurate record in this regard. Each user must have a security clearance of the secret level. A systematic login to trace all consultations and additions is required. It is also recoverable. In addition, access is modulated according to the need to know and not all services have the same read and write rights. Some services have, for example, only access on the basis of the Hit or No Hit principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answers. I believe it is important that you clarify all the points that were highlighted in the report of Committee R. It was essential to answer them. Indeed, we have seen, through the work of the Commission of Inquiry on the Attacks, that the management of databases was a key element in the dysfunctions observed but also in the improvements to be made in the future. The introduction of a new database did not pose any problems in principle and we approved it. But managing access, people and privacy are points that need to be properly linked. We will continue to track the file and your action plans in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u5	Mr.President, this is an issue related to the measures announced in the wake of the March 22, 2016 attacks. Minister, as you know, the ASTRID network had a lot of ink at the time and sparked a lot of discussion. He found himself in the eye of the cyclone at the time of the attacks. An unprecedented overload was observed that day and put the network on the knees, greatly complicating the task of rescue services. Indeed, ASTRID had reached a completely new limit of physical capacity on that day, which was due in particular to the influx of communications from reinforcements from other provinces who were trying to connect. Since then, and following the recommendations of the Attentats Commission of Inquiry, action has been taken by the government and an investment plan has been put in place. In concrete terms, on January 11, 2017, a little over a year ago, you answered me a whole series of elements. I'm not going to read all the answers in detail. Overall, you announced a €117 million investment plan, 46 of which were already decided by the Board of Directors for the period 2012-2015, given the urgency. Approximately two-thirds of this investment programme must be received within the first five years. A wide range of work has been announced, including ensuring and maintaining the reliability of the network, replacing outdated infrastructure and upgrading the network in a variety of cases. Provision is also made for the installation of relay antennas in sensitive areas such as airports and Seveso industries and the addition of carriers on some of these relay antennas. This is the first point on which I would like clarification. The second point concerns the initiatives taken following the lessons learned on 22 March 2016. With regard to the additional frequencies in order to provide more capacity, ASTRID needs more radio frequencies. In the meantime, ASTRID has been authorized to use additional Defence-owned frequencies. Capacity increased last November. New communication channels have been installed on thirteen relay antennas in Brussels. Next, the communication capacity of the radio network will be increased structurally. You told me last January that ASTRID would put in place, between mid-2017 and mid-2018, on the national network, a reserve capacity that could be activated in the event of a crisis. This year, several masts will benefit from an additional control channel. This is essential for the expansion of capacity. My third question concerns the enhancement of the mobile deployment capability that ASTRID was supposed to be putting into service in 2017 and that you announced in January 2017. Finally, the extension of ASTRID's mobile data service, Blue Light Mobile, which uses the three national 3G and 4G networks, should have benefited, in the first quarter of 2017, from several improvements: the possibility of making telephone calls and priority access for both voice calls and data transfer. Almost a year later, I therefore come back to you to take stock of the actions undertaken and the state of progress on all the elements advanced at the time. Can you assure us that the ASTRID system is now ready to deal with emergencies on a scale comparable to those we tragically experienced on March 22, 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u6	My colleague, the implementation of the investment plan continues unabated. The renewal of the radio network, of the dispatching infrastructure and the development of new services bring an undeniable added value in support of the actors of the rescue and security services. Work on the renewal of the radio network infrastructure has been completed. In the coming months, ASTRID will equip the 600 relay antennas with new technologies. This will allow for more efficient communications, better reach and a higher number of communications. Additional capacity will be provided in large cities equipped with an airport, around Seveso companies, information and communication centres (ICCs), prisons, along motorways as well as in cities and tourist places. Software renewal work at the dispatch centres will begin in the coming weeks. Capacity building on several relay antennas in the Brussels Region was finalized in November 2016. This capability can be mobilised in major incidents. In concrete terms, this means that the network is now better able to cope with increased radio traffic in crisis situations. For crisis capacity in Brussels, ASTRID can use a series of additional Defence radio frequencies. In future, emergency and security services must have the same guarantees to carry out their critical broadband communication and to benefit from reliable means of communication, as is the case with the TETRA-ASTRID network today. Emergency and safety services are currently ensuring that, in the final proposal for a Royal Order on radio access in the 700 megahertz band, the minimum conditions necessary to guarantee future mobile broadband critical communications are taken into account. In particular, in the future, this will allow operators to adapt to the demands of additional mission critical services, specific to rescue and security services. In terms of the capacity of the ASTRID radio network, in the various provinces, additional capacity relay antennas will be added to certain sites that have been identified as priorities by users and the crisis centre. The relay antennas will be equipped with additional transmitters. ASTRID is in consultation with the municipalities concerned and the first work will begin in May this year. In May, ASTRID will have a real-time monitoring tool to monitor the capacity of the radio network so that the situation on the network can be monitored closely. This tool will enable the additional capacity installed in the network. In early 2018, ASTRID launched a new compact vehicle with satellite technology and accredited as a priority vehicle with blue lights, allowing a faster arrival to the scene for a more effective temporary enhancement of capacity at the site of an incident. The operational benefits of this new vehicle were verified in the field during a recent car rally. Since 2014, ASTRID's mobile services for Blue Light Mobile data that use the three national 3G and 4G networks benefit from new features: the possibility of making telephone calls, first priority access to the Proximus network for both voice calls and data transfer, and, in case of saturation of the mobile network, 6,000 members of the priority emergency and security services will benefit from priority communications. Some 1,900 Blue Light Mobile SIM cards have been activated to date and activations are ongoing. Finally, the attacks highlighted the need for in-depth knowledge of the use of ASTRID radios. A teaching method whose results are quantifiable allows to extend the knowledge of the field user. This requires the intensive use of self-learning software. This resource is available for emergency and security services and is centralized at ASTRID This new computer-assisted learning system can be used remotely by 60,000 individual users during their training and training in the proper use of the radio apparatus in the various communication groups. Organizations using this tool are responsible for the installation of this tool in their services. In short, you will see that we have taken several initiatives to resolve the initial problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u7	Minister, thank you for taking stock of all these actions. I will read your answer in detail. We remember the state of ASTRID a year ago, whether because of the absence of a management contract or the total absence of investments. It is therefore important that public tools be strengthened, especially in emergency services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u8	Minister, on Friday, February 16, in the afternoon, police officers are called Adolphe Sax Square in Ixelles for throwing stones at cars in the neighbourhood. Young people, aged 13 or 14, are spotted by the police and narrated. A chase begins and one of them, Bilal, 14, is stopped. Menoted with colsons, he was allegedly beaten and lost consciousness. If proven, this violence is disproportionate. The young teenager filed a complaint against the police and posted a photo of his injured face on his Snapchat account. The Brussels police zone CAPITALE Ixelles has opened an internal investigation, thus confirming information published in several media. The Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office has also been seized and has not yet been able to provide further details on this case. Could you tell me what the status of the internal investigation conducted by the Brussels police zone CAPITALE Ixelles is? Where are we? If the investigation is initiated, when will it be completed? If this is already the case, could you share the findings of this internal investigation? Could you tell us what the state of the investigation is at the level of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u9	Mr. Vanden Burre, this local incident falls within the jurisdiction of Justice. I have not received any information on this. But following your question and the information provided by the local police zone of Brussels CAPITALE Ixelles, it appears that the investigation is still ongoing and carried out by the internal affairs services of the police of Brussels CAPITALE Ixelles, at the request of the public prosecutor's office in Brussels. The closing date of this investigation is currently unknown. At the level of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, the case is dealt with by the Special Affairs Section, which deals in particular with cases involving police officers. For more information, I must refer you to my colleague Koen Geens, who is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u10	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask your colleague, Mr. Geens. I knew he was the Minister of Justice. We have already addressed questions to the police area but, given the seriousness of the facts, it is important that we be able to quickly obtain information, because it is an event that has upset the life of the neighbourhood. We know how important it is for the local police not only to be present but also to listen and to have a good relationship with the inhabitants. Suspected serious incidents such as this one undermine this coherence. It is important to make clarity as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u11	Mr Minister, at the committee on 31 January, I raised my concerns with regard to the abandonment by AFCN of ISO 9001 certification in favour of the Management System recommended by the International Atomic Energy Agency. You wanted to be reassuring by telling us that this Management system met a requirement for continuous improvement and that it would ensure that the Agency's missions will be fulfilled effectively and efficiently. You added that the non-renewal of certification did not mean that the quality system was no longer in force because it was fully compatible with the Management system. Nevertheless, the information that appeared in the press at the beginning of February seems strongly to call into question your assertions. I am not very aware of the exact implications of the standards required by ISO 9001 certification and the Management system, but I would be surprised if they were to ignore the poor performance of staff welfare, the Agency's weakness vis-à-vis the most important player in the market it is supposed to regulate, managerial incompetence, lack of vision, partiality and non-compliance with procedures, and the lack of transparency in human resources management. This is in any case the results of the IDEWE consultant's audit. As a result, the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation demanded that management adopt an action plan. The latter was considered totally inadequate by the above-mentioned consultant as well as by an internal AFCN mediator. Management, on the other hand, seems completely in denial and prefers to question the work of its listener. Mr. Minister, in view of the crucial missions and challenges facing the CFNA over the next few years, I am concerned about this information. Fortunately, this would not have had an impact on the monitoring of power plants as yet, among other things, thanks to the overfunding of the Agency. However, this highlights a great inefficiency which contradicts what you have previously told us in committee. Minister, do you confirm the deficiencies identified by the IDEWE audit? If so, what steps do you plan to take to end it? Are you considering changes in management structure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u12	Monsieur de Lamotte, in your written question, you wrote "Thank God!" And you've just used "happily." I don't know if that fact is significant. I have already answered many of these questions in a previous exchange, but I will come back to some points in order to reassure you, I hope. There are two aspects to your question: the Agency's management system and the results – not audit – but the quantitative investigation of psychosocial risks related to the obligation set out in the Work Well-Being Act. The findings you quote are individual findings. The results of the IDEWE survey revealed indications of an increased psychosocial burden among staff. Be aware that management is not in any way in denial. Management takes this matter very seriously. The Commission has taken note of all the findings of this survey and is therefore working on an action plan to respond to these findings, with the aim of improving the well-being of workers. The content of the action plan is based on 6 areas of improvement: Vision, Values, Operating Framework, People management, Collaboration and Knowledge management. As regards the context of the investigation and the measures to be taken, I refer you to my answer to question No 23676. With regard to your second question, I do not have the impression that there is any lack of transparency. The Agency is available to answer all the questions asked, whether by citizens or the press. It respects all applicable legislation relating to the management of transparency and is also available to answer all parliamentary questions, as well as any other stakeholders related to its area of competence. Be aware that I am well aware of some internal issues within the Agency and, like management, we are following these issues with the utmost attention. However, I would like to reiterate to you once again my confidence in the work of the AFCN in carrying out its mission. Finally, I am not considering any change in the management structure, nor have I received any signal from the board that it is considering such changes. But in a few weeks, as you know, a new Director General will take up his duties at the head of the Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u13	I wish to say "Thank God" for your answer, Minister, since you have complete confidence in the Agency. I think we'll have time to get back to it. Indeed, you are telling me that there is no lack of transparency and that the AFCN answers all the questions. If I understand correctly, at the committee earlier, there will be contact with AFCN on this subject and we will have details in the following committees. So I'm not going to lengthen my line today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u14	Madam President, Minister, many citizens have been marked by the recent major failure on the Lixhe bridge in Visé following the breakage of DYWIDAG bars. The bridge rose about 60 centimetres and had to be closed for several months. It would appear that it was the effect of corrosion that acted on the attachments of the rods anchoring the bridge. It comes to my mind that this type of bar would also be used in the bunker enclosures of certain nuclear reactors. Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, can you tell me where and on which power plants or on which reactors such bars are used? If so, what monitoring of these bars is carried out? Did the AFCN manifest itself in connection with this problem following what happened on the Lixhe Bridge?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u15	Mr Nollet, indeed, DYWIDAG-type bars were used in the construction of Belgian nuclear power plants. In view of the need to build aircraft-resistant buildings, these bars made up of very high yield strength steel were used in the 1980s to reduce the footprint of concrete reinforcements while adequately resisting external stresses envisaged during design. The use of these bars, which are smaller in diameter than standard steel bars, enables the required steel reinforcing density to be obtained without compromising the proper flow of fresh concrete between the reinforcements at the time of concreteing. By reducing the amount of steel needed, the use of these bars thus ensures quality concreteing. This type of DYWIDAG bar was used in the construction of the four most recent Belgian units: Tihange 2 and 3 and Doel 3 and 4, mainly for reactor buildings as well as bunkerized buildings. For several years, AFCN and its subsidiary Bel V have used the expertise of the Directorate of Concrete Structures of the Wallonia Public Service (SPW) to obtain an independent opinion on the issues relating to the declaration and repair of reinforced concrete structures of Belgian power stations. To answer more specifically the last point of your question, AFCN has indeed collected from the SPW information about the reasons for the breakage of the DYWIDAG anchor bar heads at the foot level of one of the Lixhe bridge attachment rods. This issue was discussed internally by the security authority. Note that if the grades of steel and the properties of these DYWIDAG bars are close, they are not the same type of products, nor the same use, and the voltages applied to the bars are not at all the same, with or without post-voltage. Since the DYWIDAG reinforcements are drowned in concrete, their direct visual control is not feasible. However, the problems associated with the ageing of these DYWIDAG bars have been known for years because, in return for its high yield strength, this product is susceptible to stress corrosion cracking, and it is also fragile if it is handled incorrectly at the time of mounting the frames during construction. If the concrete coating protecting the steel from the reinforcements against corrosion is of insufficient thickness, if it is cracked or degraded, then DYWIDAG steel may also be subject to widespread corrosion. These problems are therefore known, encountered and dealt with in the nuclear world. A programme for the management of the ageing of reinforced concrete and/or prestressed structures of nuclear power plants exists, and justifies the monitoring of the ageing of structures, to prevent such corrosion problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u16	Mr Minister, we are therefore at the heart of a sensitive subject. This one is followed, as you say. You say that the problem is present on all our nuclear power plants built from 1980 onwards, that is, on four power plants. You're also saying that a contact was made with the SPW. I would like to know whether, on the basis of this contact, the collateral analysis has been completed, or whether it is still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u17	According to my information, the contacts are over, and we found that the uses of both types were not the same. Even without this incident on the Lixhe bridge, we have a follow-up program for this type of construction. So it was just an information session with the SPW. Their knowledge of things is used, but it is also used outside of this incident on the Lixhe Bridge.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u18	That's quite normal. We need a tight follow-up, even without the incident. You rightly mentioned the risks of corrosion and cracking. We know what this can mean in the nuclear world. I note that the analysis that was under way with the SPW has been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u19	Minister, I wish to extend our exchange on 18 February, during which you informed me of Electrabel's willingness to build a dry storage building for spent fuel management in Tihange. How long does Electrabel plan to keep this fuel on the Tihange site? Will spent fuel remain at Tihange and Doel sites for several decades? When will they be transferred to ONDRAF? Does ONDRAF have a building licensed by AFCN to store spent fuel? Does she have a plan to build one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u20	Mr. Nollet, Electrabel will store the spent fuel at both sites until it can be evacuated to a facility capable of receiving the fuel for processing or storage. In the current context, this is unlikely to be discussed within the next 10 to 15 years. The new storage buildings that Electrabel is planning to build at the Tihange and Doel sites have been designed for a period of 50 years. ONDRAF does not have an approved facility for the temporary storage of spent fuel from power reactors. Belgoprocess has an authorized facility for the temporary storage of spent fuel from research reactors, but this facility has not been designed for the storage of significant quantities of spent fuel from power reactors. As for the question of the transfer of spent fuel to ONDRAF, I must refer you to my colleague, Minister Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u21	I will therefore consult with the minister, but I note that, obviously, these spent fuels will remain for a long time at the sites concerned, ten to fifteen years and probably more, since the buildings, as you mentioned, are designed to last even longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u22	Minister, you know that I am also attentive to communication issues, not only when it comes to the federal agency, but also when it comes to yourself and your own skills. I know you're being followed especially on Twitter, but I'll be asking you about your website today. What is your internet communication policy? When, for example, are your last three publications on your personal site? Is it not appropriate to think about this? It's an invitation I'm extending to you, Minister. Finally, when I wrote my question, I wondered, for example, why no communication about the nuclear emergency plan – which is an essential part of your policy – was published on your site. I see your co-worker is checking if he's still there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u23	Mr Nollet, I am glad that you care about my communication policy, but I can reassure you. You know that my skills cover several areas. We examine for each folder which message comes out best and via which channel. My design is very simple: the aim of communication is to produce an impact through the most appropriate channels. This depends in particular on the target group you want to reach. The Minister's website to which you refer is a platform used very sporadically to disseminate certain additional information, for example in the form of press releases through social media and intended for the appropriate target group. When posted on the site in question, they are communicated through social media to the right target group. Since December 2015, three such messages have been sent. In addition, all Twitter messages posted from my account are included on the website. There are several a week. The citizen will find all kinds of information about my policy on the website as quickly as possible. You also refer to specific communications, such as those relating to the new nuclear emergency plan. The Minister's site, let me say, is not the most appropriate channel to communicate with the public on this issue. To this end, the Crisis Centre has launched a well-balanced and cross-media professional information campaign, which has also been widely covered by the press. Social media messages on the nuclear emergency plan were also posted via my site. If you know more about how I need to improve my personal site, my communication team and I will remain open to your proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u24	Three messages here means one message per year. You will agree with me that this is very little for a minister's website. Minister, your communications team – which is experienced in many areas – will accept my very simple suggestion: you have to post a message and send it to the ad hoc sites. You will not prevent a citizen who sees you on television from thinking that there has been an important communication. I take the example of the nuclear emergency plan: there has been an important communication, a citizen has seen Minister Jambon and will see on his website. This citizen may not know that it is such an agency, the Crisis Center, Electrabel or others that is responsible. He sees you, so he'll see on your site and find nothing. That's too bad. I understand what you're saying, that the core of the information must be on the right site. But nothing prevents you from indicating on your site in a three-line message the return to the appropriate site. This is a first suggestion for your communication team, I am of course free of charge if you wish to organize a small meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u25	Madam President, Minister, the building that houses the nuclear reactor is designed to contain a leak of radioactive material from the reactor tank. It must remain leakproof up to a certain internal pressure generated during such an accident. The operator must therefore be able at every moment to justify leakproofness to this pressure. In our previous discussion on this subject, you made it clear to me that the leakproofness tests that are currently being carried out by us are being carried out at least half the pressure expected, after the accident of the design base most penalizing for this criterion. I come back to the subject, because I am surprised by the use of such a standard, instead of using the pressure envisaged in its entirety, as common sense would require. In France, the pressure of this test required by the ASN is the design pressure in its entirety, of the order of 5 bars. The test is repeated every ten years on each building. In the USA, the ten-year test pressure required by the NRC is also 5 bar. Minister, why are Belgian tests not in accordance with North American standards? The whole planet, except Belgium, has learned the lesson of Three Mile Island, whose anniversary we are commemorating today. Fortunately, the structure was able to withstand maximum pressure. Why such a difference? This is all the more serious because the ageing of the installations has a negative impact on the quality of the concrete in the enclosure. Can you guarantee the publication of the results of the last leak tests of the seven reactors as well as the precise pressure applied and the leak rate observed? In the particular case of Doel 3 currently at a standstill, is it not appropriate for you to require that the leakproofness test be carried out at a design pressure and in accordance with the French standards in force?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u26	Mr Nollet, as already stated in my previous reply, the results of the enclosure leak tests are monitored by Bel V, who checks that the test criteria are met. However, the detailed procedures and results are in the possession of ENGIE Electrabel. I invite you again to contact ENGIE Electrabel if you want to go into these details. The test conditions in Belgium are certainly different from those in other countries. They also differ between them. At the time, there were discussions between the safety authority and the operator, in order to define a test program to periodically verify the sealing of the enclosures. Given the presence of a seal skin or metal enclosure and the possibility of extrapolating the results at a lower but significant pressure (about half the pressure in the event of an accident) to obtain an equivalent result, and also taking into account local accident pressure tests and other lower overall pressure tests performed after each stop for reloading, the current approach was considered sufficient. The operator is therefore following the agreed program and described in the safety reports, which are the basis for authorizations, with satisfactory results. Other differences, particularly in terms of periodicity, also existed with respect to the US approach. Meanwhile, U.S. regulation has evolved and testing in the U.S. can be done on a performance-based approach that extends the gap between two tests to 15 years. If you ask me whether, in the future, given the ageing of the units, it would not be good, however, to renew the test for the tightness of the enclosures at full pressure, I would say to you: "Yes, this would certainly be a point to be reconsidered for the next tests, as long as these take place taking into account the timetable of the law on the progressive exit from nuclear energy." In the meantime, as an authority, the Agency shall ensure compliance with the conditions agreed upon and deemed satisfactory in the normal authorisation process. The Three Mile Island accident has been the subject of many studies and the lesson learned is that it is not due to leakproofness and enclosure problems, but to problems with accident procedures, feedback and emergency management. On the other hand, Fukushima's lessons have once again highlighted the risks of heart fusion and associated phenomena that may lead to higher pressures than the pressures for the accidents considered in the design. On this basis, Electrabel has just installed filtered vents that reduce the pressure of the enclosures and prevent their destruction, while reducing discharges for effective filtration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u27	Mr Minister, you are telling me that in the future it would be welcome to organise tests with nominal pressure. It would be appropriate to do so. I think we should have done this from the beginning, but you're telling us that a closure is provided for by a law that you don't want to change. This is a good thing, and I can only support you in getting out of nuclear power and even speeding it up, but in the meantime, these plants will be operating for many years to come. I therefore ask you to organise tests even if this is not provided for in the legislation. I want us to be reassured and I am still thinking of the two reactors in which thousands of cracks have been detected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u28	Madam President, Minister, a spectacular fire broke out on the morning of Thursday, March 15, at the Tihange nuclear power plant. A total of 11 cars caught fire and 17 were damaged by the flames. This may not be a nuclear incident, and fortunately, but it remains spectacular. Witnesses can testify. Can you inform us about the causes and origins of this disaster? Is it totally accidental or intentional in nature? Have the monitoring devices identified potential authors? The dispatch of helicopters was discussed for the purpose of checking, etc. Why have the multiple security devices that are supposed to be able to respond quickly failed to avoid an incident of such magnitude? Can you take stock of everything your services know about this incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u29	Mr Nollet, on Thursday 15 March 2018 in the early morning, a car caught fire in the Tihange 2 car park outside the technical perimeter, i.e. outside the nuclear zone. The fire spread to several vehicles. The damage is only material but still significant: 11 vehicles burned and 19 damaged. The vehicles were parked in a parking lot covered with a polycarbonate roof. It melted and the material fell on the nearby cars, which reinforced the spread of the fire. The causes and origins of the fire have not yet been determined precisely by the experts, although everything seems to converge towards an accidental cause due to a short circuit in one of the cars involved. The forensic police are continuing their analysis. As soon as the fire was detected, increased vigilance was brought to the vicinity of the plant by the site security service in collaboration with the Huy police, in accordance with the procedures established by the emergency plan. The security features worked very well. The close cooperation between the firefighters located at the site, 7 days a week and 24 hours a day, those in the Hesbaye-Meuse-Condroz rescue zone and the police services allowed the fire to be quickly controlled and to limit the extent of the damage taking into account the magnitude of the disaster and the rapid spread of the fire. This incident had no impact on the operation and safety of the plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u30	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u31	Minister, the newspaper L'Avenir du 10 mars informs us that, at the beginning of March, a delegation from Beaurine to the Chooz nuclear power plant visited. The objective of this visit was to be reassured about the security of this site, located just at our borders, an issue that you spoke about with your French counterpart recently. My colleague Gilkinet is particularly attentive to this point. Two members of the delegation, the president of the communal council, Pierre Moreau, and the general manager of the city of Beauraing, Denis Jullian, did not come back reassured, but contaminated! As they came out of the nuclear part and were scanned, traces of radioactivity were detected on their clothing, showing too many becquerels. We had to call a French nuclear safety officer, who arrived after an hour and thirty minutes. They had to take off their clothes, and take a training. The clock was spinning, and at the time when they could finally leave, midnight had passed and their access badge was no longer valid. The security of the plant then had to intervene, in order to give their freedom to the political leaders. Do you remember that we visited the Tihange power plant, Minister? Fortunately, we did not have such a situation on that day. Imagine we had to stay in this plant! The seduction operation of the officials of the French nuclear power plant was rightly regarded by the press as the flop of the year. Mr Minister, have your services had any contact with the French authorities in this regard? Do you now know the origin and extent of the problem? Has this kind of incident occurred at our home, in one of our plants, outside of those we did together?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u32	Mr Nollet, you do not escape the fact that the control of the safety of French nuclear power plants falls within the competence of the French nuclear safety authorities. I am convinced that the French authorities will respond appropriately to this case, if necessary. I also hope that you understand that it is not possible for me to comment on problems that are taking place outside our country. Contamination controls, when leaving the controlled area of nuclear facilities, are common practice. Due to the sensitivity of the equipment, minor contamination is not uncommon when leaving a facility. It can often be eliminated by washing its hands or by wiping its shoes, without any risk to the health of the person concerned. If it is such a minor contamination, it is not abnormal that our country is not informed of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u33	Minister, I understand you don't have all the information either. This was a situation experienced by Belgian public authorities in a French power station at our border. I wanted to know if there were any similar incidents in our house. You have incorporated this into the overall response by saying that sometimes there are minor elements that only need to wash their hands. I take note of this and will ask my colleague Gilkinet to ask the French authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u34	Minister, as we know, each nuclear power plant has several backup diesels that provide electricity in the event of a breakdown of the external power grid. These instruments are central when a crisis is triggered. Friday, February 16, 2018, an irregularity was found in the system for automatic activation of backup diesels at the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear power plant. Minister, can you tell me more about this incident, its origins and its potential consequences? Had this anomaly not already been found previously? If so, when and how many times? Was this incident classified on the INES scale? Do you not consider that the repetition of such incidents demonstrates the maintenance of a low level of safety culture, contrary to the commitments that had been made?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u35	Mr Nollet, on Friday, February 16, 2018, an irregularity was found in the system for automatic activation of backup diesels at the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear power plant. Nuclear power plants all have several backup diesels that provide power in-house in the event of a breakdown of the external power grid. These diesels guarantee the uninterrupted supply of electricity to power plants. A signal is triggered when these diesels must automatically take over. A check carried out on February 16 found that the automatic activation system of a backup diesel was not working properly. The automatic activation of diesel was therefore not guaranteed. However, the manual activation of the diesel in question was not a problem. All control requirements have been met. The problem was due to dirty electrical contact and was solved after cleaning. A problem had already been identified with the electrical contact in question in January 2017 and April 2017. After analysis, this incident was classified at level 1 of the INES scale, since this anomaly had already been found previously and the measures taken had proved insufficient to prevent its recurrence. As already mentioned, this anomaly has had no impact on the safety of staff or the population or on the environment. A problem had already been identified with the electrical contact in question in January and April 2017, as I have already said. The INES scale should only be seen as a communication tool to facilitate media and public perception of the importance of nuclear events in safety. It therefore does not constitute a tool for assessing the nuclear safety of installations and cannot under any circumstances serve as a basis for national or international comparison in the field of safety. A good safety culture includes all the technical and organizational measures that are taken at all stages of the design, construction, operation and decommissioning of nuclear facilities, with a view to avoiding incidents and accidents and limiting their consequences if, in spite of everything, they were to occur. The analysis of this anomaly showed, in this particular case, that too few actions had been taken. For this reason, AFCN has decided to classify this event on the INES scale as INES 1. However, it is important to note that such an incident at the Doel nuclear power plant is not an indication of the general state of the organization's safety culture.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u36	Minister, I hear your last sentence saying that this does not necessarily affect the entire safety culture. Nevertheless, I am concerned that this kind of incident, which has already occurred, is repeated, when it is said every time that measures are taken to ensure that it does not happen again. I understand the rankings on the INES 1 scale. I think, Minister, that you will again have to draw the attention of the authorities of the company concerned. Clearly, the message has not yet passed sufficiently as to the seriousness it must give to a series of procedures which may sometimes be repetitive or considered secondary, but which are nevertheless important to avoid incidents such as those encountered on 16 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u37	Minister, an article from the New York Times on Thursday, March 15 tells us that the Trump administration has reported that Russian hackers have infiltrated and attacked nuclear power plants in the USA, but also in Europe. He informs us that Russian spies had compromised the business networks of several American energy-producing plants, particularly nuclear ones, by mapping their corporate structures and computer networks, including that of the Wolf Creek nuclear power plant near Burlington. Internal security officials have included a screenshot taken by Russian agents, proving that they can now access critical controls of their targets. In Symantec, researchers discovered that Russian hackers had begun to take screenshots of machines used in nuclear power plants and to steal detailed inscriptions in their operation, suggesting that they were performing reconnaissance for a future attack. Minister, do you confirm this disturbing information disclosed by the U.S. administration? How can these attempts best be described? Have you contacted some of your counterparts about this? If so, which ones? Was Belgium affected by these attacks and/or attempted attacks? The article states that the offensives have accelerated since the end of 2015. Do you confirm that? Eric Chien, director of security technologies at Symantec - a digital security company - said: "We now have evidence that they are sitting on machines connected to the industrial control infrastructure, which enable them to turn off or sabotage". How do you analyze such comments? Are the computer systems of our nuclear power plants sufficiently secure to withstand such attacks by foreign secret services? What additional measures will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u38	Mr Nollet, the article in the New York Times on Thursday, March 15, to which you refer, refers to risks in many sectors and not just in the nuclear sector. I will limit my answer to this area because you are asking me about it. This problem is not entirely new. You've already asked me about some of the facts that you're reporting today. I refer you to the answer I gave you to your question No 19856 of 12 July 2017. At the time, you mentioned that companies responsible for the operation of nuclear power plants in the United States and elsewhere had been subjected to computer attacks in May and June 2017, leading to the activation of a high level of alert. These cyber attacks were recorded in a report by the United States Department of Homeland Security dated 28 June. The origin of the attacks had remained unknown, but it seemed to you that these hackers were already supported by a government. In particular, I replied that AFCN was in contact with its American counterpart on cybersecurity aspects and that there was no evidence that Belgian reactors were being affected. Compared to the July issue, we have more details. In particular, USNRC's spokesperson, the nuclear regulator, said on March 16th that several nuclear facilities in the United States had been subjected to multiple cyber attacks in mid-2017 and that the networks of companies responsible for these facilities – that is, corporate networks – had been affected. However, he adds that none of the safety, security or emergency preparedness functions of these facilities had had any negative impact. I can confirm what I said in my July 2017 reply, namely that at present there is no evidence to suggest that Belgian reactors are affected by this problem. As you know, security equipment control systems use analogue technology and are not connected to external networks. However, we take this issue of cybersecurity very seriously. First, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN), assisted by its technical subsidiary Bel V, urges operators to continue to increase their vigilance in any aspect of cybersecurity. Moreover, as the threat is rapidly evolving in this area, it goes without saying that the cooperation of all national and foreign authorities, the intelligence services and the Belgian Cybersecurity Centre (CBC) to the nuclear regulator or its technical arm is essential. It is crucial that information is adequately shared to minimize residual risk. In fact, AFCN is in contact with its American counterpart, particularly on these aspects of cybersecurity. For example, information had been exchanged between the two organizations in response to the facts mentioned in your July 2017 question. At the regulatory level, I can inform you that the Belgian Government is in the process of drafting bills to supplement and expand the protection of nuclear installations and critical infrastructure in the field of cybersecurity. The first is to transpose the European Network and Information Security (NIS) Directive and the second is to expand and specify the cybersecurity measures that are imposed in the nuclear and radiological sector. These projects should be completed fairly quickly. Finally, if security measures are put in place against different types of intrusion, it is necessary that the devices be gradually improved, with any new information leading to new measures. This continuous improvement, an explicit value of the AFCN, is the key word.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u39	Minister, it seems that a new incident occurred on Thursday, March 8, 2018 at Tihange 1 plant, fortunately without any impact on the environment or workers. An irregularity was found in the heaters of the reactor pressurizer; not all heaters would have responded adequately to a test. Do you confirm these elements? What is the reason for this irregularity? Can you tell me how long this irregularity was present? Can you tell me how many tests had been carried out previously without noting this problem when they should have seen it? Isn't this in itself a serious problem? Has a similar anomaly ever been found in Tihange or Doel in the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u40	Mr Nollet, all the information requested can be found on the AFCN website. I can tell you that on Thursday, March 8, 2018, an irregularity was found in the heaters of the Tihange 1 reactor pressurizer. This incident was classified at level 1 of the INES scale. It has had no impact on the safety of staff and the public, nor on the environment. The pressurizer is a reservoir that regulates, among other things, the pressure of the reactor's primary circuit by means of heaters. In a regulatory test to verify the proper functioning of the signals sent by the water level detectors in the pressurizer, all the pressurizer heaters did not respond adequately. The analyses performed showed that the electrical cell for the transmission of the secondary shut-off signal of the heaters was not connected to the circuit. It had been disconnected during the shutdown in 2016 in order to perform the maintenance of the electrical panel and had not been reconnected since. The cell was then immediately reconnected. For the rest, the test was carried out again and it was conclusive. The impact on safety is extremely low. In fact, on the principle of redundancy, all safety systems are double in nuclear power stations and therefore all heaters would have been properly shut down in the event of a real event. However, in view of the fact that this regulatory test has been carried out seven times since the 2016 judgment without this irregularity being identified and that a similar anomaly has already been found in 2012, the level of this event has been raised from one level on the INES scale. No events similar to those mentioned in INES 1 were found in Doel or Tihange. Therefore, after analysis, this event was classified at level 1 of the INES scale. As already mentioned, this anomaly has had no impact on staff safety, the population or the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u41	Minister, I hear your answer very well. I myself said that fortunately there had been no impact on the environment or on workers. Nevertheless, we are once again facing an incident that repeats itself, that is to say, an incident that has already been encountered in the past and which is happening again. This multiplication of incidents must challenge us more than, indeed, the immediate impact on the environment and workers on the same day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u42	Mr President, Minister, Doel 4 is equipped with a sprinkler circuit whose function is to reduce heat inside the reactor building in the event of an accident. On March 14, 2018, a check revealed that a train from the sprinkler circuit was unavailable. How long did this train remain unavailable? What is the cause of this incident? Were other trains also unavailable at the same time? Was this incident classified on the INES scale? Are you concerned about the proliferation of such incidents? Have similar incidents been reported on other Belgian reactors?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u43	Mr President, Mr Nollet, like any nuclear reactor, the Doel 4 reactor is equipped with an enclosure spray circuit. The function of this safety system is to contribute to the mitigation of a serious accident if it occurs, i.e. to limit its consequences within the reactor. By spraying water within the enclosure, this system reduces pressure and heat inside the reactor building. This sprinkler circuit consists of three independent trains to ensure sufficient redundancy. The reactor operation specifications require that at any time at least two of these three trains be available to ensure the safety function. A check carried out on March 14, 2018 revealed that a train from this Doel 4 sprinkler circuit was unavailable. This in itself is therefore not problematic and this situation has been rectified immediately. However, the analysis of this occurrence then showed that the train had remained unavailable for one week. Short maintenance work on other plant systems has rendered one of the other two trains temporarily unavailable during this period of time. This situation therefore did not meet the requirement of uninterrupted availability of at least two of the three trains. Electrabel informed AFCN and its technical subsidiary Bel V, in accordance with the procedures in force. The analysis shows that this sprinkling train was unavailable due to a human error related to a misunderstanding about the performance of a job. After analysis, this incident was classified at level 1 of the INES scale on the basis of the in-depth defence criterion. Contrary to your comments, the AFCN does not see a multiplication of such incidents over the past 12 months. Although events are not always comparable and statistics on such incidents are not relevant, the figures show a decrease in these events in recent months. Nevertheless, this new human error event reinforces AFCN's willingness to keep the focus on the implementation of the CORE action plan to strengthen the safety culture in nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u44	Minister, I must confess that I did not understand your last sentence. Nevertheless, I understand the meaning of that. On the other hand, I note that the incident is once again level 1 which is, in spite of everything, a repeated signal in the direction of the international that should be avoided. Unfortunately, at the turn of all the questions I have been able to ask in this committee, we have seen the number of incidents classified as Level 1 multiply in a very small amount of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u45	Mr Vanden Burre and Mrs Lambrecht would come later. Questions Nos 24548, 24549 and 24550 by Mr Kir are converted into written questions. Mr Flahaux will come later. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Galant's 24581 is hereby withdrawn. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the I shall now turn to my question No. 24689 later. Questions Nos 24695 and 24710 by Mr Calomne and Mrs Ben Hamou respectively were postponed. Questions Nos 24708 and 24713 by Mrs Ben Hamou and Mr Thiébaut are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u46	Minister, technology continues to evolve and allows police officers to elucidate very complex criminal cases. For example, this is the case in the case of Maëlys, the little girl who disappeared in France in August. The police used a 3D scanner to freeze the crime scene and collect important elements. This relatively new system is little known in Belgium. However, the federal police have a single device of this type, used to analyze crime scenes, especially in homicide cases. This device makes it possible to calculate the exact distances of everything on its way. He also makes a large number of photos to reconstruct the scene very precisely using software. A working group would have been set up to assess the possibility of acquiring further 3D scanners in the future. Technological advances are constantly evolving and new and advanced equipment is entering the security market. These advances are making the task of criminals increasingly difficult. Other innovations could happen in Europe and Belgium, including virtual reality helmets that would allow you to visualize the crime scene and move around without jeopardizing the place. What do you think of these new devices? How many times and in what cases has the 3D scanner been used? Do you intend to acquire more in the future? What is the price of a scanner? As far as virtual reality helmets are concerned, do you intend to acquire them in the future? In what cases would they be used? What other technological innovations could be used by our police forces in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u47	Mrs Ben Hamou, it is important to know that the acquisition of a 3D scanner within the Federal Judicial Police is motivated by the need to reconstitute scenes of crimes of terrorist attacks, such as the sites of the terrorist attacks in Zaventem and Maelbeek, central station, rue du Dries, etc. This type of device allows for the reconstitution and measurement of the premises while providing elements as to the course and consequences of the events. The 3D scan acquired and present in the Federal Judicial Police has been used several times since 15 March 2016, including in eight cases of terrorist attacks. The use of this 3D scan is reserved primarily for the files of terrorist attacks, but the scan is also made available for cases requiring the reconstitution, fixation, management and operation of a large-scale crime scene. As part of a current and comprehensive reflection within the Federal Judicial Police on the use of new technologies, the acquisition of other 3D scans is also under consideration. The price of a 3D scan varies according to the models between 35 000 and 60 000 euros, plus the costs of training and maintenance. The Federal Judicial Police is, of course, following the evolution of the new technologies, which are being studied in an ad hoc working group to assess the adequacy and need to acquire them in relation to the operational needs faced by the police services. In this context, an analysis of the theme of virtual reality helmets will also be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is true that society is changing and new technologies are also changing. If these new devices allow police officers in the field to do better work and allow, for example, not to compromise a crime scene, then it is important and necessary to ensure that our police are equipped with such tools in order to function properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u49	Minister, every year more and more Belgians are being controlled positive for narcotics driving. For example, the number of positively controlled persons has risen from 6,000 cases in three years. One of the reasons for this increase is the increase in controls, which are themselves reinforced by salivary analysis. However, it appears that the system of analysis is not yet fully developed, as police officers are not yet autonomous in the use of this technique. Indeed, while salivary tests are simpler to perform than urinary tests, police officers are still dependent on doctors. Their full empowerment could increase the number of controls and verbalizations of drivers under influence. The increase in the number of controls would also help to increase public awareness of the risks and serious dangers of driving under the influence of drugs and thus try to reduce the number of incidents and accidents. In fact, although driving under the influence of drugs is less important than driving under the influence of alcohol, the phenomenon is, however, not to be minimized. These dangerous behaviors must be combated and cannot enjoy any impunity. Moreover, unlike alcohol, drug use is not concentrated on weekends, but spread over the week. Minister, are drug testing widespread in the federal police and in all police areas? Are they available in sufficient quantity? Would it be possible to consider a test where police officers would be totally autonomous and not dependent on doctors? If so, would it allow for an increase in the number of tests? Could we consider a BOB-type campaign but "drug use" version? The aim would be to make citizens aware of the dangers of driving under the influence of drugs, as would drunk driving.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u50	The acquisition and distribution of drug testing devices is the responsibility of the Department of Justice. Based on a police study, the number of salivary tests doubled. The number of aircraft increased from 18,000 to 36,000. This should cover the needs. Until now, the police had to have a blood sample carried out, when the salivary test gave a positive result. The acquisition and distribution of salivary testing equipment that will replace the blood sample is, as mentioned above, within the competence of the Department of Justice. Every effort will be made to distribute the salivary test apparatus again this year, so that blood samples become an exception. Currently, the police services are already aware, during BOB campaigns and other controls on blood alcohol levels, to pay extra attention to driving under the influence of narcotics.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u51	Minister, thank you and I will put another question for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u52	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lambrecht's 24502 has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u53	Minister, I had the pleasure of seeing you on television earlier. We recently learned that a large national security survey was being carried out among 500,000 randomly selected citizens. The aim is to respond anonymously to a form that has arrived at their home in order to indicate their level of satisfaction with police action. This investigation is the result of a partnership between the Federal Police, the Police Areas, the Internal FPS and local authorities. Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to welcome this initiative, which is in keeping with an old tradition that had ceased over the last ten years. I would also like to take this opportunity to obtain some information about this investigation. First of all, what is the total budget allocated to it? Then, can you explain to us the complete process, including the deadlines, from the sending of questionnaires to the first steps that will be taken on the ground? Finally, what minimum participation must be achieved in order to have sufficiently reliable results? Has a probable rate been estimated?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u54	Mr Flahaux, the total budget allocated to the Security Monitor's investigation is EUR 465 736. It is divided between the Federal Police, the Police Areas, the Communes and the Prevention and Security Services of the Ministry of the Interior. This cost includes copies of the questionnaire, shipments (timbers), return envelopes and the results scan. The final budget will obviously depend on the actual response rate, as the costs of postage of the return envelopes as well as the scan will vary depending on the response rate. This amounts to about one euro per survey. This wide-ranging survey includes several stages: - from 19 March to early April 2018: progressive sending of questionnaires to the population; - citizens randomly selected from the sample will be able to participate, either on paper or online, until the end of April; - from May to June 2018, the paper questionnaires will be scanned by the Ministry of Finance for standard issues and will be encoded by the police areas for specific issues; - from July to December 2018: statistical data processing and tabular reporting; - early 2019: publication of the results, followed by training of the people who will analyse the results within the police zones and communes for the drafting of the new zonal security plans and strategic safety and prevention plans. Each authority should take the results of the survey into account as additional information to other data sources. This is the case, for example, with crime statistics. This will provide a complete picture of the situation. This also gives us the opportunity to get an idea of the "black" numbers. Crime statistics capture all the facts that are recorded, but there is also what the population tells. The comparison between these two sources of information can give an idea of the "black" figures. For the results to be sufficiently reliable, the minimum participation rate to be achieved is 25% of the sample. The number of shipments – about 500,000 randomly selected citizens – has been calculated to reach this minimum response rate. For the calculation of this rate, we relied on the experience of the local security investigation conducted in the same manner in 2011-12. In this survey, response rates ranged from 25% to 60% depending on the location.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u55	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his answer. On the financial side, as you said yourself, one euro per citizen on average does not seem excessive, especially since this is a survey that is not carried out every year. Here I am completely reassured. Secondly, what is interesting in this investigation is that it creates an additional link between the citizen and his police. It will force police areas where contacts are not going very well to be proactive, which seems to me quite positive. I will just say a slight flat: you have quoted figures of 25% to make it representative. I expected you to give me a percentage in the order of 10%. In general, when you do a whole series of surveys in other areas, getting a voluntary response rate of 10% is already a success. You set the bar above, especially depending on the previous questionnaire. You cited a response rate of 25 to 60%: hat! I hope we reach the representative rate of 25%. The more responses, the more credible the results of the investigation and the actions that will result. In any case, I fully support you for this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u56	It's not a flat, it's a facese.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u57	Mr President, Minister, being a native of Épernay in Champagne, a region well known by all Belgians, it is normal for me to draw inspiration from this country. An application is currently being tested in France, in Nice, specifically, to improve the effectiveness of rescue services. The principle is simple: when an emergency situation arises, the user starts the application that filmes the action and transmits images and sound to the emergency services live. The witness can also give details of what is happening. Thanks to this information and the fact that the user is immediately geo-located, rescue services are able to get to the site quickly and knowingly. Everything can be reported, both accidents and incivilities. In fact, this makes many people react who believe that this is a violation of privacy and fear the appearance of "witch hunts", feeling that I do not share if there is nothing to blame. Minister, are you aware of this application? What do you think about this one? Could you imagine in the future putting in place such an application in our country, after having discussed it with your colleague from the Ministry of the Interior in France?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u58	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, my services are examining the possibility of integrating the reception of photos and videos via APA 112 into the dispatch software of emergency power plants 112 and power plants 101. However, this integration is accompanied by several conditions, the first of which is that the operator must lead the process, i.e. that only the operator of the emergency call centre can request it in order to clarify the situation. Indeed, we must prevent emergency call centres 112 and power stations 101 from becoming a YouTube channel on which all begin to post photos and videos, which may hinder the proper functioning of these centres. The uploading of photos and videos represents only one aspect of the technical developments that may concern or will affect our plants in the future. Similarly, the possibility of directing and capturing cameras should be explored in order to better assess a situation and properly dispatch back-up services on site. On the other hand, the Video chat could also offer added value in certain circumstances, but always with respect for the privacy of individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. That's how I assumed it. The opportunities offered by new technologies must always be seized, but the constant parameter must remain that of privacy protection. It's still quite difficult to get, but a whole series of organizations are looking after it. In my opinion, when an application is interesting, there is no reason why it should stop at the border of Outre-Quievrain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u60	Mr President, Minister, it is with concern that we have learned of the decision of the Turkish State to place the Belgian citizen Bahar Kimyongür (and many people) on the list of the most wanted terrorists with a reward of 214,000 euros promised for any information leading to his capture. This is a serious and even more serious matter, on the one hand, when we know that in a decree the Turkish State grants immunity to civilians, whatever the nature of their actions, when they act in the name of anti-terrorism or to prevent an attempt to overthrow the government and, on the other hand, when we know that many opponents of the Turkish State have been killed or attacked in recent years, including in Europe. Let us recall that Bahar Kimyongür was acquitted for these alleged acts of terrorism (the so-called DHKP-C case) and that, despite the pressure of Turkey and the assistance given to it by several European States, including Belgium, his arrest and extradition have always been refused by the courts of the various countries where this has been attempted. Justice has clearly established that the information work carried out by Mr. Kimyongür is a matter of freedom of opinion and cannot be equated with acts of terror. So it is a truth that is also a judicial truth. On 24 August 2014, Interpol officially removed the red notice for this Belgian national. Today, however, the Turkish State is returning to the offensive, and we can only worry about this measure in terms of democratic rights. It was in this context that I asked the Minister of Justice, and then the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the same case, who both sent me back to you, Mr. Minister of the Interior, about the protective measures that would be provided for this national. Mr Minister, in view of the worrying context, have you considered taking special protective measures in favour of this Belgian national? Can you tell us more about the threat assessments that were requested in this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u61	Mr Van Hees, the Kimyongür file is indeed a case of a person threatened and has arrived at our service, the Crisis Centre. Threat assessments were requested from the Belgian intelligence service as part of this file. Without giving them precise information, we can confirm that measures have been taken with regard to Mr Kimyongür on the basis of the assessment made by the Belgian intelligence service. I therefore confirm that this person has benefited from specific protection measures without being able to say more.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u62	Minister, I understand, of course, that if you provide more details or too much about the protective measures, they may no longer be effective. I am pleased to note that you take this matter and these threats seriously, that a threat assessment has been requested and that you are putting in place protective measures. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u63	Minister, on Thursday, March 19, 26 migrants attempting to travel to the United Kingdom were discovered in the vicinity of Zeebrugge. In total, the West Flanders police arrested 172 migrants in transit during the past week. Most are from Eritrea and Algeria. Many police services organized surveillance activities on 5 and 6 March in order to map the number of illegals taken to West Flanders by smugglers. According to the prosecutor of the King of West Flanders, Frank Demeester, pressure remains high in the province, both in Zeebrugge and in highway parking. He also complained that migrants in transit behaved aggressively. It reports acts of violence against security personnel and thefts of surveillance officers' radios. Minister, can you take stock of the actions of March 5 and 6? During these operations, were the police able to apprehend smugglers caught in flagrante delicto? Are other actions planned in the near future? Are French law enforcement agencies involved in these actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u64	Mr Flahaux, during the national days of action on 5 and 6 March 2018, police forces intercepted 131 migrants in transit. On 5 March, 75 migrants in transit were intercepted, 72 of them in West Flanders. On 6 March, the police intercepted 56 migrants in transit. During the national action, the Mons judicial police arrested a suspect of human trafficking, a smuggler. For more information, I would refer you to my colleague from Justice, Mr Geens. Since 1 February 2018, daily operations have been carried out throughout Belgium by the Federal Police. In addition, private supervision is provided daily by a private security company in several car parks. French law enforcement agencies are informed of all actions through the CCPD (Centre for Police and Customs Cooperation). If a major control operation takes place in the border area, the French security forces are informed individually.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answers. This situation will one day have to be brought to an end. We have to run after these migrants! At the risk of shocking, I would say that when Britain leaves Europe, it may be necessary to rent boats to send them there. At the core, these migrants should no longer arrive in Europe, as they are mostly economic migrants. For example, I mentioned Algeria in my question. It is not a complete democracy, far from it, but it is a country that does not seem to have war or other problems at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u66	Mr Flahaux spoke just now about the Flemish seaport of Zeebrugge. I will take this opportunity to ask a few more questions about the use of drones in the Flemish seaports. Because of the lack of other seaports, they are only Flemish. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u67	Does Brussels have a seaport? Then I apologize to the Brussels people. Mr Minister, since May 2016, it has been announced that the UAVs, i.e. the unmanned aircraft of the Belgian army, together with the shipping police, are helping to guard the 13 000 hectares of the port of Antwerp. However, criminals also use drones. The report "Gebiedsscan District Zeehavenpolice" reports on crime in the port area of Rotterdam in the years 2015 and 2016. It states that criminals use drones to control security services and facilities in the port area. According to the report, there were 13 incidents involving drones flying refineries and container terminals in order to obtain information illegally. Measurements by a private security company now show that drone flights are also taking place in the middle of the night above the Flemish seaports. It is suspected that this is done by human smugglers, to help illegal transit migrants in less guarded places or moments over or by fences. I read that in January 2018, Mr Marc Adriansens, the president of APZI, who represents the interests of the companies in the Zeebrugse port, reported that he would like to use drones to secure the ports. However, the airspace above Zeebrugge is prohibited and therefore a special approval from Minister Bellot must be obtained. Mr Minister, can you tell me how many incidents involving unauthorised drones occurred in the ports of Antwerp, Zeebrugge, Ghent and Ostend over the last three years? So I am not asking for figures for Brussels' seaport. Second of all, were drones intercepted? Thirdly, has one been able to identify who used drones in the port zone and for what purpose? Fourthly, is it true that drones are being deployed at night by human smugglers or other criminals? Fifth, are the UAVs of the military still deployed above the port of Antwerp? How do you evaluate the results of this surveillance? Sixth, how do you evaluate the results of the drone surveillance by private security companies in the port of Antwerp? Seventh, are there any private security companies or service providers carrying out drone surveillance in other ports? In the meantime, can APZI use drones in the port of Zeebrugge? Finally, as in the Netherlands, is there also an annual report which gives an overview of all security incidents and of the police and security equipment deployed in the Flemish seaports, or Belgian seaports?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u68	Mr Vermeulen, over the last three years there have been no incidents in the ports of Ghent, Ostend and Zeebrugge with unauthorised drones. In the port of Antwerp there was one incident in 2017 and four incidents in 2018. In 2015, one drone was intercepted in Antwerp. Only in Antwerp could this be traced back in 2015. It was a hobby photographer at the time. There is no information known to the port of Ghent. Unconfirmed information is available for the ports of Ostend, Zeebrugge and Antwerp, but no interceptions have been carried out yet. I come to your fifth question. There was a sporadic deployment of Defense unmanned aircraft during the actions against illegal migration at Zeebrugge, with limited added value, given the limited mobility. They are no longer used for Antwerp. UAV Defence was deployed in the port of Antwerp for one month in 2016. That was definitely useful back then. As far as your sixth question is concerned, there is still no use of drones by private surveillance companies in the seaports. There is no use of drones by private security companies in the ports of Ghent, Ostend and Zeebrugge. Drones may be deployed in all seaports by private security agents, in accordance with Article 142 of the Private Security Act, and provided that they are licensed by the competent port authorities. Finally, security incidents are reported in all seaports via the form as approved by the National Maritime Security Authority. These are followed daily by the shipping police. An annual report containing an overview of incidents and means deployed can be prepared without problems, but has not been drawn up so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that the figures are quite limited and clearly lower than for the Netherlands. That is a good thing. After all, we should not hope for higher figures because this would signal that there would be more criminal activity than before. I heard from a number of private security companies that they are willing to help with port security, including drones, but if that is not useful at the moment, then we will not let them incur those costs. Thank you for your answer and I will certainly come back to this subject later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u70	Mr Minister, indeed, the procedures for the emergency closure of the Brussels metro have given rise to much debate and have been the subject of numerous hearings in the Attentats committee of inquiry. Subsequently, several recommendations were issued by the Committee of Inquiry, approved in plenary session, aimed at simplifying procedures, lines of command, communication and clarifying the role of the Crisis Centre as a true operational command centre. As the spokesman for the Crisis Centre points out in a press article on 16 March, the new procedure is now being conducted in two stages in accordance with the recommendations of the Commission. I quote: "In case of imminent threat of attack, the general manager of the Crisis Centre is mandated to put in place the first reflex measures, among which, the order to close the metro within half an hour". This is therefore a decision which can only be taken in consultation with the OCAM and the Minister of the Interior. After this first phase of reflex-measures, everyone is brought together within the crisis management unit: the federal ministers, the Region, the various departments. It is this expanded decision-making body that will then take the lead and which will be responsible for establishing and communicating the other security measures. However, according to the same article, the procedure seems less clear in the eyes of STIB, an operator of the Brussels metro, which adopted in May 2017 a specific contingency plan in case of terrorism. In fact, questioned by the journalist of the article of 16 March last, STIB does not seem to be aware of the new competences of the Director General of the Crisis Centre since the spokesman of STIB explains that the decision must come, I quote, "from the Minister-President of the Region if the crisis centre set up is regional or from the Minister of the Interior if the crisis centre is federal. It is planned that the authority responsible for the emergency phase will prevent STIB", explains STIB's spokesperson. According to this understanding of STIB, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister-President of the Brussels Region could therefore give the order. There is apparently a lack of clarity according to this press article. Could you clarify the procedure and confirm that it is the director of the Crisis Centre who has the operational command in the event of an emergency phase and therefore the responsibility to transmit the metro closure reflex measure to STIB? Secondly, is it planned to re-communicate or re-specify all the new procedures to all stakeholders? How will collaboration, complementarity between the Federal Crisis Centre and the Brussels Regional Crisis Centre be articulated?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u71	Mr Vanden Burre, the procedure for closing the metro is, as you said, part of a set of measures that can be taken in the event of a threat. This is an essential point to distinguish between the responsibilities of each of the actors and the triggering or not of the federal emergency phase following a terrorist threat or attack. During the first moments of the reflex phase, when the federal phase is not triggered or not yet triggered, the first steps can be taken by the directors of the Crisis Centre in consultation between myself and the OCAM. The Brussels-Capital Region is then directly informed of the decisions taken via the Brussels Regional Crisis Centre. Subsequently, a coordination meeting is convened by the Director General of the Crisis Centre. In the early stages, the composition of this coordination meeting will be embryonic. Representatives of my office, the Prime Minister, Justice, the OCAM and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office will be present. The tasks assigned to this coordination meeting will be: taking urgent action and other administrative police measures. At the strategic communication level, the present Minister or the Director General of the Crisis Centre will notify federal and/or regional authorities. At the operational communication level, the Director General of the Crisis Centre will notify the Federal Police for the execution of the decision. The measure will be requested by the DAO Federal Police Crisis Centre, which will notify the relevant police services. This concerns the railway police or local police areas. They will contact mobility operators directly. After the start of the federal phase, the decision will be taken within the management unit at the Crisis Centre. It will be transmitted to the operational unit as mentioned in the Royal Decree of 1 May 2016 laying down the national contingency plan for the approach of a terrorist hostage-taking or terrorist attack and in parallel to the sectoral unit of the Mobility and Transport FPS as provided for in the Royal Decree of 31 January 2003 laying down the contingency plan for events and crisis situations requiring coordination and management at national level. This procedure has been operational since August 2017. In addition, the Mobility and Transport FPS provides the Crisis Centre and the Police with an updated list of mobility contacts. Procedures are communicated through their respective authorities to the various partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u72	Minister, I will read your answer in detail, but it seems to me quite clear that these decisions are systematically made through the Federal Crisis Centre. STIB seems to have misunderstood it. Indeed, they say that the decision could come directly from the regional side. You confirm here that this is systematically an operation of the Federal Crisis Centre, in the event of a federal crisis phase. Could we consider a single regional phase of crisis? In this case, it would only come from the regional minister. But terrorism will never be in the regional phase. This would depend on the severity of the incident and what type of emergency plan is federal or regional.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u73	Yes, that's what makes the difference. Here I give the example of the alleged terrorist that we arrested at the central station in Brussels. In the circumstances, at that time, it was not useful to have a federal phase at first instance. It was therefore a provincial phase, or in the case of Brussels, a regional phase. But if we're dealing with something a little more serious, we'll have to start the federal phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u74	That's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic861x.u75	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Maingain's 24721 was withdrawn. Mr Maingain is not here and has not informed us, and I am therefore applying Rule 127.10 of the Rules of Procedure.
