ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, on 5 December I asked you if you could have convinced Mr Knaus of the think tank ESI of the need for the Rome plan, i.e. the plan for the Central-Mediterranean route, to deal with asylum applications at the European external borders, with the subsequent allocation of refugees after recognition to the Member States. I also asked you whether Mr Knaus could have convinced you of his plan for additional readmission agreements with African countries. For example, one could foresee a return from day X+1. You did not answer those questions at the time, but you did say that Mr Knaus is in favour of asylum offices or asylum hubs in Africa. As far as we are concerned, you are not in favour of this. Let me quote: 'I am not convinced of Mr Knaus's arguments. I myself have known the Rome and Malta plans for many months and I have not actually read a plea for asylum offices in Africa. What is more, such a plea seems to us to be at odds with everything Mr Knaus has so far fiercely defended, especially resettlement." Are you saying that Mr Knaus is in favour of asylum offices or asylum hubs in Africa, where asylum applicants would be recognised? Has Mr Knaus been able to convince you of the need to deal with asylum applications at the European external borders with the allocation of recognised refugees to the Member States? Why is that? Why is that? Has Mr Knaus been able to convince you of the idea of concluding additional readmission agreements with African countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u2	I have long been convinced of the importance of making maximum use of the external dimension of European migration policy, namely well-functioning re-admission and return arrangements with third countries that generate the largest influx of illegal economic migration to the EU. Belgium is therefore strongly in favour of a partnership approach, which seeks to improve cooperation on re-admission and return with the West African countries through all relevant levers. What Mr Knaus is advocating is a restriction on re-admission cooperation with third countries for all those arriving in Europe after a certain date. This is de facto a collective regularisation of the illegal immigrants who have arrived in Europe before a certain date. I cannot imagine that you would be in favour of that. Mr Knaus' plea for a European asylum procedure at the external borders linked to a relocation system of recognised asylum seekers seems to be political and legal fiction at the moment. Although important aspects of asylum policy are enshrined in European and international legislation, there is also an important margin of interpretation which immediately affects national sovereignty. I did indeed talk to Mr Knaus about the plans to deal with asylum applications for Europe on the African continent. Such plans often circulate at European level. As I explained at the previous committee meeting, I am not in favour of such proposals. If I remember correctly, you shared my opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u3	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u4	Mrs Smeyers is not yet here to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u5	Mr President, Secretary of State, there are currently EU discussions on Eurodac, which regulates the registration and identification of persons arriving in Europe. The registration would be done through fingerprints and facial images. There is a proposal to reduce the age at which fingerprints can be taken from 14 to 6 years. There is also discussion as to whether coercion can be imposed to obtain fingerprints or facial images of children from the age of 6 years. What is the Belgian position on this matter? Is coercion justified for Belgium? If yes, from what age and above all under what conditions? What guarantees should at least be provided for Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u6	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, Belgium is in favour of the revision of Eurodac. The Commission's proposals focus on the tightening of Eurodac, which allows more efficient application of the system, but also makes Eurodac a more important tool for monitoring and combating irregular secondary migratory flows and promoting return. The new proposal was discussed extensively with the Member States within the Council and the following aspects can be identified as opportunities for a more efficient asylum and return policy, but also as a tool in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. Firstly, the addition of biometric and biographical data from irregular migrants present on the territory of the Member State, in order to facilitate identification and return and to extend the existing categories. Secondly, for the first time, an obligation is introduced for Member States to take fingerprints and then effectively store them in the database, together with the name, nationality, place and date of birth and information on any travel document. Furthermore, Member States should also store a facial image in the system, which can overcome situations where a person refuses to give fingerprints or does not have one. In the event that a person refuses to cooperate in fingerprinting, the text provides for the use of administrative measures, including the possibility to use coercion in accordance with the national legislation of the Member States. The age for taking fingerprints and facial pictures is reduced under this proposal from 14 to 6 years. Such a change could help the authorities to determine whether or not children who were separated from their parents during the journey are in another Member State. As regards the specific burden on minors, the European Commission and the Council propose that they should not be forced to give fingerprints, unless in duly justified circumstances as provided for in national law. The European Parliament states in a separate article for minors that Member States should not use coercion against minors and that detention is prohibited. Belgian legislation provides for the detention of persons who refuse to give their fingerprints, but this does not apply to minors. Accompanied minors whose parents refuse to cooperate in the collection of fingerprints may be referred to a FIT residence. The question then arises as to how far this can be regarded as coercion. The law also provides for no coercion in the federal police for minors who refuse to give fingerprints. At present Eurodac provides access for law enforcement services, but only in the form of consultation in the case of serious crime and terrorism. In view of the fact that such services do not always have the biometric data of the offender or the victim, provision would be made for the possibility of making alphanumeric searches in the context of the investigation. In principle, where possible, a coloured scan of an identity card or travel document could be included in Eurodac. This can help the Member States in the context of return. For Europol, direct access to the Eurodac database shall be provided. The proposal also provides for the collection of biometric data from re-established persons. In line with the application of the resettlement claim, it is necessary to verify the identity of persons for whom a Member State wishes to initiate an admission procedure. This also allows a Member State to verify whether or not a person found illegally on the territory was admitted by a Member State in the context of resettlement. The negotiations are currently in the phase of a tripartite consultation with the European Parliament, which takes a number of positions that are contrary to those of the Commission and the Council, in particular on the use of coercion and the time limit for storing data. However, the European Parliament expressed its explicit support for Europol's direct access to the Eurodac database, the addition of photos, names and identity numbers in Eurodac and the fingerprinting of children from 6 years of age to enable tracing and family reunification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u7	Mr Secretary of State, this is a very formal answer. We know, for the record, that a lot of children disappear or that there are a lot of children whose data we do not have. We must be very concerned about that. Abuse of children exists, and we must prevent it to the maximum. There is also a kind of organ trade with regard to children, which we certainly need to combat. The taking of fingerprints and photographs of children from 6 years of age is a concrete means of ensuring that children are at least recorded in a database and can be traced permanently. We cannot, therefore, oppose this measure in itself. However, there is also the element of compulsion. To what extent should children be forced to have fingerprints taken? In this respect, we should lay down a number of qualitative conditions, including ensuring that these children can be trusted; addressing them in a language they understand; making it clear that they are not to be put in prison or imprisoned; making it clear that they have a number of rights and ensuring that a guardian is present, especially in the case of unaccompanied minors. A number of qualitative criteria must also be laid down from Belgium if children from 6 years of age are to be fingerprinted or photographed in order to be included in a database. This is not about terrorism. It could be about crime, especially when dealing and abusing children.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Coninck's 22967 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u9	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would have liked to have heard from you the figures for the 2017 return, broken down according to return, whether forced or not, with the indication of the country of origin, according to the Dublin agreements, according to bilateral agreement, the total, the drift-backs, the voluntary return, the intermediate state transfers and the overall total. I would also have liked to know what your ambition is for the forced and voluntary return in 2017. Have you been able to live up to your ambitions? You said earlier, for example, that the increased capacity should enable you to remove a thousand more people. What is your ambition for forced and voluntary return in 2018? In that question, questions have been combined on the return figures of 2017. Those questions are divided into sub-questions, with which I ask a lot of figures. I have tabled these questions as written questions, but I have not received any answers. That is why I am now taking them up as oral questions. I can live with it if you answer these questions in writing. In any case, I would like an answer. The deadline expired on 16 February. That is why I am putting the question orally. If you can give me the numbers on paper, that's fine with me, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u10	Mrs De Coninck, as regards our ambition for forced return in 2018, the intention is to submit a special flight per week and send back 150 prisoners per month, i.e. a total of 1 800. 80 intermediate shipments are planned and, as far as repatriations are concerned, 21 effectively deployed escorts (DEPA), per week, 85 effectively deployed removal operations without escort (DEPU), per week, and 150 effective removal operations per week. The number of repatriations, retreats and intermediate transfers totals 7 800 in one year. As far as voluntary return is concerned, we count on 400 people per month or 4 800 per year. The forced and voluntary return together thus amounts to 12 600 for 2018. That's the ambition. The figure for the self-employed return is 1 600. The overall total thus amounts to about 14 200 returners. That is the objective for 2018. The first two months weren't at that level. I always set the bar very high. We will see if I can make it, but so far the figures have been rising every year. Did you manage to force 1 000 additional persons to be removed? Yes, it was 5 894 in 2015 and 6 977 in 2017. That's over 1 080 more. The extra places therefore help effectively to force more people to remove. I also have a table of the returns for 2017. There were a total of 4 503 repatriations, 2 474 retreats and 4 033 voluntary departures. The overall total, with the intermediate transfers, 59, is 11 069. We're gonna keep going up and down. In 2016 it was 10 907. In 2015 it was 10 125. In 2014 it was 8 758. In 2013 it was 10 483. I hope to reach the limit of 12 000: 1 000 per month in 2018. Hopefully, that'll work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u11	If I understand correctly, it's going to be around 10 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u12	11 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u13	11 000 last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u14	And 10 900 in 2016. That's more like 11 000 than 10 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u15	I can't write and compare those numbers so quickly. It therefore amounts to around 10 000 and 12 000 in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u16	We'll see. That's my ambition. One must aim high in life, because the arrow falls when flying.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, over the last few weeks, the media has once again reported an Albanian family from Oudenaarde with three schoolchildren aged 3 to 11 who were arrested by your services for transferring to a return home for expulsion to Albania. Problems have already arisen on several occasions with regard to the practice in which families who have been in our territory for seven years in this case and who are or are not in a procedure are deported, often involving children who have been born here. This is also true of the Albanian family and have absolutely no connection with the country of origin. They don't even speak the language of that country. We therefore believe that consideration should also be given to the importance of the child. That is also the opinion of Mr Lieven Boeve, top Catholic teacher, who claims that, if students are no longer there overnight, that is traumatic not only for the deported children but also for their classmates. Several bodies are asking for human solutions to such situations. CD&V has also asked several times to at least give those children the chance to finish the school year or to end an education. Are you prepared to review the policy on expulsions of families with school children so that they at least have the opportunity to complete the school year? What possible solutions do you see for the poignant expulsion of often well-integrated children?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u18	Mr Vercamer, taking up the question of not removing school children during the school year would be a de facto regularisation. My services should only organise the return for young people in school during the summer holidays. Those two months are too short to remove anyone who doesn't cooperate. For example, the flights during the summer holidays are usually full and it is difficult for some countries to book a ticket, especially when it comes to families. Such a decision would mean that such families would be tolerated during the school year and receive shelter. This would be a very strong attraction for illegal immigrants in other European Member States. The following rules shall be applied. Unaccompanied minors are not forced to be removed. They will be assigned a guardian. A solution is sought together with the guardian. That could be a voluntary return. Minor children who are part of a family follow the decision of the parents. For the period from the Easter holiday, certain families who still have a valid order to leave the territory may ask to extend the validity of the order until the end of the school year. If all minors were given the right to complete their school time, this could mean that the majority of these families would be regularised or should be regularised. If every child has to finish school time, the period of tolerance is so long that it will only become more difficult, almost impossible and morally irresponsible, to send them back afterwards. There are 12 years of compulsory schooling in this country. After a stay of at least 12 years to even 15 or 16 years, if there are any siblings, I assume that no one will propose to send them back. The problem arises if the parents do not comply with the order to leave the territory. In the case of the Albanian family, to which you refer, the family knew after three months that it had to return. It is therefore difficult to speak of a responsibility of the government, of a long asylum procedure or of a responsibility of our asylum services, quod non. The family appealed against that decision. Of course, that's her right. After three months, the decision of the Foreign Affairs Office was confirmed and confirmed by the RvV. After six months, including appeal procedure, the family knew what it was up to. In most other countries, Mrs Merkel's Germany is taking a little longer. A final no came to us after six months. So six months after arrival the family could have left voluntarily. Instead of doing so, the family submitted again and again new applications for residence, each time with a negative decision. The discussion always ignores the fact that parents also have a responsibility, primarily to take their children away from the country of origin and to build an uncertain future in Belgium. The degree of recognition for Albanians has been less than 5% for many years. Yet the family chose to apply for asylum. That opportunity was very small and the family knew it when it came here. I have been in Albania many times in recent years, and I have talked to many Albanian families. They are well aware that the chances of asylum are not very high. The children end up in a country where they have no connection and where they do not speak the language. If you get a negative decision, you have to follow it up immediately. At that time there is no connection with Belgium. However, it is the decision of some parents not to do so, with all the consequences. As far as children born here with parents in illegal residence are concerned, the responsibility of parents is once again completely ignored. It's their choice. They are responsible for their children. They can return and have their children in the country of origin. I would particularly like to focus on informing the foreigners who are ordered to leave the territory. It is not possible for them to stay illegally in Belgium. The voluntary return is the best solution. Those who are ordered to leave the territory shall be given a period of 30 days to leave the territory voluntarily. If this is not followed up, the Department of Foreign Affairs will continue the current practice of detention in the home. In future, we will be able to keep families in a closed structure. If all other means are exhausted, I will still be able to organize a forced removal. I know your case, Mr Vercamer. I know the file very well. It's been up to date for a while. After six months, the family has been fully executed and has permanently ignored several orders. The children have been used as an instrument to generate a certain emotion. If you decide not to pay taxes tomorrow as a parent and find it wise not to follow the payment order, then after five years and several payment orders the bailiff comes by to confiscate your house and make sure you have to move to an emergency home of the OCMW. That is also a very traumatic experience for the children. Those children are not to blame for the parents' decision not to pay taxes to the tax authorities. It's a very traumatic experience when their house is taken away and they may be deported from the congregation, while the whole village is watching it and being taken to an emergency home, which is nothing like the nursery they had, but who's responsibility is that? It's the responsibility of the parents who decide not to pay the taxes. That's a similar situation. We even proposed to the family concerned to leave at the beginning of the school holiday, so last summer. We have made it a very concrete proposal, which it has not addressed. The family continues to opt for illegality and sooner or later the story ends. That's what I'm saying. You can argue that I have a discretionary power to regularize. I have that, but I've looked at the file from all sides and I see no objective basis for regularization here. It would be difficult for me to have it explained to my administration if I were to regularize that family after the six-month asylum procedure, add the appeal body, get a no and continue to sue indefinitely. There must always be a balance. I am convinced that you, too, are in favour of a balance between the application of law and the necessary humanitarian reflexes and charity, which must exist throughout immigration. I personally do not see any other solution in the dossier that we have now advocated, and I have looked very closely at the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u19	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Your comparison with the IRS doesn't work. I understand that the starting point for your approach is the choice of the parents involved. There is a great deal to be said about this, but the children are the victims and we are ignoring a number of essential basic rights for children, who will apply at the same time. In your comparison with the tax authorities, the rights of children will continue to apply. In this case, you will not be able to do so. I find it regrettable that it is only from the responsibility of the parents and not from the basic rights of the children.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u20	What basic rights do you think are being violated? What basic right of a child was violated? Well, that's what I want to hear. You accuse me here of violating the fundamental rights of children in the removal of families with children. Of course, it's not just about the case you mention; there are hundreds a year. What basic rights are being violated?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u21	Mr Secretary of State, I would advise you to read all the reports you have received from the Commissioner for Children's Rights and from a number of other bodies, which have clearly defined the basic rights. This includes the right to education and the right to a decent life, including as a child.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u22	Mr Vercamer, I have seen those reports. However, the right to education is not above the right of residence. It is therefore not true that any minor entitled to education in the world can migrate to Belgium and therefore require a stay. One leads to another. Those who have a right of residence as a child, even if the procedure is in dubio or in a grey zone, may indeed be entitled to education. However, this does not take away the privilege of the government to effectively implement the order to leave the territory. None of the legal proceedings say that a basic right has been violated. These are all very creative, very broad interpretations from a very one-sided angle, which makes me blamed with the government for violating the basic rights of children. That goes a long way. In that reasoning, the right to education would give children the right to remain here anyway. I do not think that would be wise, and it certainly does not correspond to the policy applied in Belgium over the last 50 or 60 years. If a policy change is proposed by one or the other, I would like to hear it. The Commissioner for Children's Rights presents interpretations on the absoluteity of children's fundamental rights. This is a very one-sided interpretation, which is nowhere in the European directives, nor in our Belgian Constitution or in other Belgian laws.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, it is very strange that, in very similar cases, children's rights are taken into account and not in other cases. At the very least, there could be some unambiguous criteria, or could you refer to unambiguous criteria on which you base yourself to decide in one case and not as such in the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u24	Mr Vercamer, the instructions to my administration are clear. In the area of regularisation, we are talking about two years of residence with children, an asylum procedure for more than two years if there are children and three years as a single person. That instruction has been around for years. I never changed that instruction. It is one of the important instructions in the field of regularization.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u25	The last word always comes to the Member of Parliament. Mr Vercamer, the last word?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, you will then have to explain to me why, in one case, you are giving children who are seven years of age the opportunity to continue their education here and not in other similar cases. What are the clear guidelines on which you base yourself to deal with these two cases very differently?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u27	I understand you're not an expert on foreign law, and I don't blame you. The duration of the procedure and not the duration of the stay play a role. The duration of the procedure: two years or three years. It's very clear. Here it was six months, Mr Vercamer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u28	It doesn't make any difference to those kids.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u29	You're gonna come in here on the committee one day and tell me your truth, all right?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u30	I'm concerned about the situation of children. A procedure of three years or five years doesn't matter to those children. For the kids, it matters that they're here seven years and that they were born here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u31	Individual files are best not discussed in a general question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u32	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, after the Open Vld, it seems that you are attacking the CD&V. The atmosphere in the majority is interesting... But let's go back to our sheep! For several months, you have been repatriating Sudanese, on the grounds that these nationals had not applied for asylum in our territory. A person of Sudanese origin threatened with deportation filed an appeal. On 31 January, the Court of Cassation wronged you and confirmed the judgement already handed down by the Court of Appeal on this matter. The judgement indicates that you tried, in at least one case, to extradite a Sudanese national without having duly verified that he was not at risk of torture, inhuman or degrading treatment – under Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In an exchange that we had together on October 3 and 25 and on January 17, you confirmed your very restrictive and summary interpretation of the application of Article 3. The Court of Cassation makes you wrong and considers that the burden of proof lies with the State, not with the person concerned. The Belgian State has officially outlawed the law by wanting to expel persons who may have their fundamental rights substantially challenged once they have returned to Sudan. This judgment of the highest judicial body in the country is now based on jurisprudence in all our judicial districts. I should like to add to my question of 2 February that the report, which was made public in this committee on 9 February concerning the potential cases of ill-treatment of persons returned from Belgium to the Sudan, confirms that you have failed to comply with Article 3. He concluded that every effort must be made to ensure that Belgium respected it better in the future. To be fair, Mr Secretary of State, I recognize that the report is extremely critical of the veracity of the cases raised. Hence, Mr. Secretary of State, my questions. How many Sudanese are still being held in closed centres to date? Could you detail this figure for each centre? Secondly, is this ruling going to alter the way in which Sudanese repatriations are envisaged by the Office of Foreigners, regardless of their current place of detention in Belgium? In other words, are you going to stop these operations? Finally, will you order the Office of Foreigners in general and its Director in particular – since in his own words it is he who is "carrying the line of the section 3 summary analysis" – to modify the method of verification, based on the note of the Office of Foreigners of 24 October 2017, which we are familiar with? Will the Office of Foreigners terminate the summary analysis of compliance with this famous Article 3? Finally, what administrative steps have been taken in this regard since then to better implement Article 3, as also requested by you in the report of the independent body of the CGRA on Sudanese returnees to their country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u33	Mr Hedebouw is not present. I call Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u34	Mr President, I submitted this question in writing on 12 January. That's why I'm putting them orally now. Mr Secretary of State, I am asking for an overview and some data from Sudanese returning to Sudan, after identification by the Sudanese mission. I wanted to get some data on this. I would have liked to know of all those involved the date of their last arrest, possibly earlier, and of course anonymously. Is it a person whose asylum application was refused, or a former Dublin case, or someone who never applied for asylum? If there was initially a Dublin case, after which it was deported, in what circumstances did this happen? I would also have liked to have been given an overview of the orders to leave the territory since that last arrest, as well as the date of finalisation of the FGM. Following a judgment of the Foreign Affairs Council, the Foreign Affairs Office would have rewritten the motivations for the Sudaneses to be expelled at that time. Did this happen here? Was there a new order to leave the territory written, with a new deadline to sign RV appeal? For the various dossiers, I would have liked to know the date of setting up a possible RV appeal, the date of the RvV ruling and the result. Would you also like to see the date of other legal proceedings? What judicial authorities did this happen? What is the date of the ruling and its outcome? What's the date of the Sudanese mission interview? What is the date of the Article 3 ECHR study and its conclusion? Was the region of origin established, if any? If so, which one was it? Does the laissez-passer contain a specific municipality and from which region was this? In what way did the return take place: voluntary, forced without escort, forced with escort and so on? What was the date of return? If more than one attempt had been made, I would have liked an overview of this too. What was the concrete method of guidance after eviction? Did this happen via the ERIN network or the UN? What was the manner of succession after eviction through the embassy and its networks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u35	I have two questions. The first relates to the general follow-up to the Sudan report and the second to a specific case of expulsion. As far as the report is concerned, the facts are known. At the beginning of February, the report was forwarded to the government. There were some very clear criticisms about the way in which Sudanese people are repatriated who have not applied for asylum in our country. There was also criticism about cooperation with Sudan, the identification missions and so on. The Prime Minister then announced a policy change in parliament on seven points. The most important thing, of course, is to carry out a thorough review of Article 3 of the ECHR, prior to its rejection. I have the following questions. What progress have you made in implementing the recommendations of the report and the seven policy changes announced by the Prime Minister? How will the additional review of Article 3 take place? Who exactly will do that? Which nationalities will be subject to the additional review? The recommendation of the Commissioner-General was to make sure that this was done for problematic countries, which is obvious to Sudan. That is also the minimum for us. Do you have any idea what these problematic countries could be? Or will this review be carried out for all nationalities, for all people who will be repatriated and who have not gone through asylum procedures? Are there any identification missions planned at the moment? If so, by which countries? Are the modalities for this type of identification missions adapted, namely that an interpreter and an official of the DVZ must be present in an interview, who must be within hearing distance, and that the review under Article 3 takes place before the person is exposed to the identification mission? Have Sudanese people been repatriated since 9 February who had not applied for asylum? If not, when do you think this will be possible again? My second question concerns a specific case of expulsion, for which I am based on a report from Knack which mentions a Sudanese asylum seeker who has been tried. So this is someone who applied for asylum. He would be repatriated to his country. The file would show that no review of Article 3 had taken place prior to repatriation. The DVZ replied that that review had been part of the asylum procedure with the Commissioner-General. So far, we can follow. In retrospect, it appeared that the man had declared himself Eritrean and that the review, and hence the asylum procedure, concerned that alleged nationality. He was eventually identified by the Sudanese identification mission as Sudanese. Then it comes. Seven days after the lawyer reported the absence of the review, the Foreign Affairs Office had a meeting with the man about the risk that he might be able to walk in Sudan if he was repatriated. In other words, no review was carried out once it was clear that the man had Sudanese nationality. Still, they wanted to point him out. I have four questions about this. Firstly, it is clear that for people who have applied for asylum but have not obtained it and have to be returned, the review of Article 3 can be carried out by the Commissioner-General in the context of the normal asylum procedure. Is this happening systematically? Is there any record of this review in the DVZ file? Secondly, at the time everything was put in place for a repatriation, the DVZ knew that the man is Sudanese and not Eritrean. Then why did the Foreign Office assume that the review of Article 3, as Eritrean, could be sufficient? Was the DVZ really on the verge of repatriating a Sudanese while the service clearly knew that its risk of inhuman treatment in Sudan had not been investigated? Moreover, following the note from the Commissioner-General at the end of October last year, which shows that there is a very serious problem in Sudan in terms of the risk of torture. Thirdly, does the Department of Foreign Affairs have the opportunity at the moment to carry out such reviews itself? If not, why did the DVZ question this person in that context? Fourthly, how exactly did the identification of the man as Sudanese happen? Has the Sudanese identification committee been identified in the offices of DVZ? Did you find out whether an interpreter was present, as well as a DVZ official, knowing that the recommendations in the report were published shortly afterwards?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u36	Mrs. De Coninck, I was under the impression that you had asked all your questions. However, you have several questions and you have informed me that a number of questions have not yet been asked. I give the floor to the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u37	Mr President, Secretary of State, Mr De Vriendt has all asked his questions in succession. Some of my questions were actually between his questions. I had a question and a partial question which is very similar to the last question put by Mr De Vriendt. So I will not repeat them. However, the questions are quite identical. I also had another question. Everything here is classified under Sudan, but that is very broad, namely Sudan in the past and the Sudan procedure in the future. In particular, I have a number of questions about the future procedure. Firstly, regarding the presence of the DVZ during the interview, it had already become clear that no interpreter was present during the interviews by the Sudanese Identification Committee. However, Mr Secretary of State, you stated that the people of the DVZ would understand heavy statements in a different way and purely verbally. Now we read in the CGVS report that the DVZ officials were not always very close. How do you rhyme with these two statements? How can DVZ officials who are not very close to us understand what is happening in a different way and purely verbally? Then how far were the DVZ officials? Secondly, on the examination of practice in other Member States, Prime Minister Michel stated at the committee meeting just before the crocus holiday that the government does not yet have all the information on the implementation of Article 3 of the ECHR in other countries. The Commissioner-General stated on this point that the conclusion was that it was interesting to look for good practices. However, this requires a different way of contacting and investigating than sending a query, on which the answers are generally very short. In the meantime, do you have any more information? Will an updated overview be sent to the members of the Committee on the Interior? Has, as the Commissioner-General explained, been contacted with individual Member States in the meantime? What'd they get? Was a best practice found? Thirdly, on the examination of Article 3 of the ECHR to be amended, our Commissioner-General believes that there should be more questions and more research for countries with a certain level of insecurity. Is there any clarity about the cooperation between the DVZ and the Commissioner-General? What kind of division of labour will there be? Will the Commissioner-General, in certain circumstances, investigate further after a DVZ filter and assist the DVZ with the justification after which the DVZ effectively motivates and decides on the right of residence? Will this indeed be a reasoned decision, with the possibility of appeal, and therefore no longer on the basis of an internal note? Will the right to hear be heard in the future before the embassy is asked for identification? Do you think it would also be useful, on the basis of the information received, to carry out a second Article 3 ECHR study afterwards? Fourthly, we understand that five more people who have not applied for asylum must be deported to Sudan. Is it true that two of them were released in the meantime? Are there three Sudaneses waiting for this modified Article 3 ECHR study? How many Sudanese who were to be deported have you released since the suspension? Fifth, the guidance and follow-up. In the context of cooperation with the IOM, the reintegration measures would be strengthened, said Prime Minister Michel in this committee on 9 February. What are the exact adjustments to this policy? A member of the DVZ would accompany those involved to Sudan. Can you compare practice with future practice until recently? What exactly will this member of the DVZ do? To where and when exactly does this DVZ guidance run? Will there also be cooperation with the Cairo Embassy to ensure the follow-up on the ground? How's that gonna happen? Why didn't this cooperation take place earlier? Finally, the permanent follow-up committee. On 9 February, the Prime Minister listed a number of members who should be on the committee. Was this a exhaustive list or is the list still being updated? If so, in what sense? Will the committee also consider the method of identification? This is therefore about what precedes the implementation of the removal measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Franken, following the CGRA report which clearly states that your services did not provide the necessary care for the prior verification that there was no violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights in the context of the removal of Sudanese nationals to their country of origin – which was also supported by court decisions – the Prime Minister announced a series of points of attention, in particular with regard to pre-interviews. The Flemish and French-speaking press, however, echoed an attempt to expel this type of person on 13 February, when it was clear from the file that the interview to establish the risk of violation of Article 3 would have taken place only on 20 February, a week after the failure of this attempt to remove him. Are you aware of these facts? It has now been a month since the CGRA report was released and we have been entitled to the Prime Minister's statements regarding the screening of files under section 3. Have you taken any specific measures to respond both to the decisions of the courts and to the legitimate fears of the defenders of the rights of these people in the process of expulsion? If so, which ones? If not, what are you waiting for the file to evolve?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u39	I saw Mr Maingain earlier, but he left again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the judgment of the Court of Cassation, I should like to say the following. You are quoting a judgment which considers that Belgium would not have examined the risks of violation of Article 3 of the ECHR. I would like to point out that the Court does not rule on the merits. It does not state whether there is a violation of Article 3 of the ECHR, but merely states that the judgment of the Court of Appeal is properly justified when it considers that the Office of Foreigners has not carried out the necessary checks in relation to Article 3 of the ECHR in the light of known information on the general situation in Southern Sudan or of the evidence invoked by the foreigner. In addition, the Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Court have ruled differently in recent decisions. In any event, according to the CGRA report, the Office of Foreigners has made efforts to examine Article 3 of the ECHR, but should further examine it. The way in which the review of Article 3 of the ECHR will be deepened will first be discussed within the government. If recourse is made to a good practice of another Member State, this can be reported. Part of the survey of the European Migration Network (EMN) related to the review of Article 3 of the ECHR can be consulted. Of some Member States, the answer is confidential and cannot be given. The joint mission of the DVZ and Foreign Affairs in Khartoum took place from 26 February to 1 March. During this mission, among other things, the possibilities were examined with the IOM and other partners to provide for a reinforced succession of returned migrants. In the meantime, the existing programme of the IOM can continue to be used. It was also agreed with this UN organisation that they would be waiting for the returned Sudanese at the airport. So there'll be an airport pickup. As before, all available information on the programme is provided to the Sudanese returned. The IOM is also notified in advance of their arrival. With regard to the review of Article 3 of the ECHR, concerning the questions related to details of individual files of persons repatriated to Sudan and more specifically to their review of Article 3 of the ECHR, I would like to refer to the information contained in the CGVS investigation report. I cannot give you access to individual files and/or documents relating to the review of Article 3 in the case of personal files. The CGRA report specifies how the examination of Article 3 of the ECHR was carried out in the files in question. This examination was carried out during the individual interview to which the persons concerned are entitled. In this context, the person is asked to submit concrete elements which may constitute a real risk of inhuman or degrading treatment within the meaning of Article 3 of the ECHR in the event of return. It is also reminded that the appropriate procedure for assessing the risk of violation of Article 3 of the ECHR is the asylum procedure. I repeat what has already been pointed out several times: the appropriate procedure for investigating the violation of Article 3 is the asylum procedure. All remote persons have been informed of this on several occasions. The CGRA report confirms this and also mentions that not all persons face a real risk as defined in Article 3 of the ECHR upon their return. Let's talk about re-launching the repatriations. As you know, the investigation has been completed and the report states: "The CGRA was not able to determine clearly or with certainty whether the facts cited in the Tahrir Institute's note actually occurred. It has no evidence to show that these facts have actually taken place." The statements made by the persons concerned presented a great deal of incorrect information, which raises questions about the rest of the statements, as indicated in the report. I quote: "But with regard to the three main testimonies cited in the report of the Tahrir Institute, it has been found that important parts of these testimonies do not conform to the truth, so much so that it is permissible to have serious doubts about the rest of the testimony." Deportations may be resumed while taking into account the recommendation of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons, that is, if the substance of the case is checked in advance for each person whether or not he or she has a need for protection. I now come to the repatriations to Sudan after a halt. The person who has already been removed since the publication of the CGRA report (op 13 februari 2018) is a rejected asylum-seeker who, according to CGRA, could not claim asylum or subsidiary protection. That is the only person so far who has been removed from Sudan since the withdrawal of the repatriations. On 13 February 2018, the removal of a second Sudanese was planned. That's not right. I think it should be March 13, 2018. No, it was not, on 13 February 2018 the removal of a second Sudanese was planned. So on February 13, 2018, one person was sent back and a second repatriation was planned. Therefore, two removals were planned on 13 February 2018, one of which did not return and the other did. The second repatriation was normally rebooked before 13 March 2018. That's why I was confused. That removal is not going to happen now either. This person was booked after his asylum application was refused by the CGVS on 24 November 2017. The person concerned changed nationality each time. At interception, he was a Sudanese. When he applied for asylum, he was an Eritrean. At the one-sided petition, he was once again a Sudanese. During the hearing right in the center he was again an Eritrean. So it was rather complicated, colleagues. He's applied for asylum. That file was closed on 24 November. His story was described by the CGVS as completely unbelievable. Moreover, the person concerned has consistently maintained his statement that his fear of returning to Sudan was a deportation to Eritrea. This expressed fear was examined on the substance on 24 November, prior to the attempted repatriation on 13 February 2018. After his refusal to leave, he was again heard by an expert at the CGVS on 20 February. Once again, the person concerned stated that he was of Eritrean nationality and that he was the only fear in case of expulsion to Sudan to have a deportation to Eritrea. The person concerned claimed to have no other fear of repatriation to Sudan. The conclusion of the CGVS was once again that his story is unbelievable. It's kind of complicated. He said every time he was from another country, depending on how he felt: from Eritrea, or from Sudan. When applying for asylum, he himself said that he is from Eritrea. At his one-sided petition, he suddenly said he was from Sudan. He was still in the center back then. Then he was heard again and suddenly said he was Eritrea's. Okay, well, that's complicated. I hope he knows where he is himself. He's definitely not gone. He's still here. It is very complicated, but the asylum application has been completed as completely unbelievable by the CGVS, which, as you know, investigates it in complete independence. We have nothing to say about that. So be careful when you're defending someone. That is always very sensible in migration files. At present, 16 Sudanese people are locked up in closed centres. Three people are in the country of origin procedure and therefore do not have a Eurodac hit. Two of them are currently applying for asylum. Thirteen people are in the Dublin procedure and therefore have a Eurodac hit. I should like to comment briefly on the distribution between the closed centres. Six of them are in Merksplas, five in Bruges, three in 127bis, one in Vottem and one in the Caricole. Then I would like to talk about Dublin and Article 3 of the ECHR test. Under the Dublin procedure, an in-depth review of the agreements and monitoring will be necessary for some countries. On repatriation, Dublin or not, Article 3 of the ECHR is always respected. Identificatiemissies. As regards the question of the presence of the DVZ officials during the interview with the Sudanese identification delegation, I can only repeat that maximum efforts have been made to have an employee of the DVZ present at all times, but that I have instructed my services to monitor this even more closely, in line with the recommendations of the CGVS, in future identification missions. Moreover, also in accordance with the report, an interpreter will be provided if the interview with the identification mission takes place in a language that the DVZ employee is not empowered to use. About the permanent follow-up committee. Although this was not a recommendation contained in the CGRA report, I recall that the government intends to establish a commission to assess the implementation of the legal and regulatory provisions in the return policy. The committee will be set up for a period of at least two years, with an interim report after one year. It is indeed intended to provide for the following members: a chairman, a professor, the federal police, the DVZ, the CGSS, the General Inspection of the Federal Police and the local police, the AIG, Fedasil, the Association of Belgian Pilots and a public air transport operator. That is the same composition as the Vermeersch 1 committee and the Vermeersch 2 committee, except perhaps Fedasil.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u41	Thank you for your very long reply, Secretary of State. What you are accused of, in any case, what we Greens are accusing you of, is not that we sent Sudanese to torture. It is to have decided to send individuals back to a dictatorship without having checked whether they were being subjected to possible ill-treatment. And that's what the CGRA report says. So when the Prime Minister said in plenary, "Article 3 is a sacred principle for me", I am sorry, but this sacred principle has been flouted by the very confession of the CGRA report that – no, Mr Franken – does not whiten you. Another point is that the judgment of the Court of Cassation is a judgment which definitively closes a debate in which you went on appeal. You went on appeal, and then you went to cassation. So, he makes you wrong, and again, you're not whitewashed. This judgment is final and makes you wrong. You have talked a lot about Dublin, the 17 people, if I have heard correctly, who are in a case of "dublinization", as they say. Dublin is exactly why these Sudanese are not applying for asylum in Belgium, as you are asking for. And that is exactly what the Court of Cassation tells you: even those who have not applied for asylum must not be sent back to a dictatorship where they are subjected to ill-treatment, without having been verified that they are not subject to ill-treatment. The decision of the Court of Cassation also states that the burden of proof lies with the head of State and not with the individual concerned. Finally, I understand that despite the fact that the report has been known for a month now, there has not yet been any change in the way in which the Foreign Office applies Article 3. The expertise on the countries in question, the problematic countries, of which Sudan is a member, is at the CGRA. In fact, when CGRA sent you a confidential note, on October 24, 2017, it was because CGRA has this expertise. I expected you to present us today with a method of ensuring that the expertise on these problematic countries at the disposal of the CGRA is systematically and automatically transmitted to the Office of Foreigners, respecting the independence of the CGRA, so that the Office of Foreigners, on the basis of the extremely detailed information of the CGRA, can take a decision on Article 3. I see that these changes have not yet taken place. I therefore hope that you will wait until you have radically changed the procedures, as requested by the report, before proceeding with the repatriation of the 20 Sudanese who are now in the antechamber of the return to Sudan. Otherwise, this could be a new breach of respect for the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the European Union, which we should all cherish as democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u42	There's been a misunderstanding, Mr. Chairman. For the record, there are 16 Sudanese people locked in closed centres. Three of them are in the country of origin procedure and therefore may go back to Sudan. Two of them have an ongoing asylum application. The review of Article 3 is part of the asylum application, for which it serves. We'll see what comes out of it. Thirteen people are in the Dublin procedure. They may end up in Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Luxembourg... I do not know to which countries exactly, you will have to ask additional questions. It is therefore not a question of returning to Sudan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u43	When a person is in a closed centre, she will be repatriated. I understand that, in the specific cases of Dublin, they will be repatriated to a European country. On the other hand, persons who have been ordered to leave the territory in a closed centre, apart from the Dublin cases, will be repatriated to another country. Mr Secretary of State, as long as you have not implemented what you are asking for in the CGRA report, that is, the scrupulous application of Article 3 in the case of persons to be repatriated, I ask you not to proceed with repatriations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u44	Mr Maingain, you have not had the opportunity to ask your question, but you may, of course, replicate the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u45	Mr President, I had to be absent very briefly at the wrong time. I therefore apologize to you, to the members of the committee and to the Secretary of State. I agree with the view already expressed. Mr Secretary of State, apart from any controversial aspect and the political question of whether to cooperate with a dictatorial State in identifying its nationals, I continue to say that a democratic State such as ours does not have to collaborate on an identification mission led by the Sudanese security and police services. It is as if you were asking the Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad to send its representatives to Belgium to identify people of Syrian origin in our territory, in order to know whether they meet the conditions for obtaining permission to stay there. Perhaps it is because the Sudan is far away and its situation is less known than the Syrian case because of a lack of media coverage, but the two cases are perfectly comparable. Both regimes are also condemnable in terms of respect for human rights. Moreover, they are countries at war, a source of worsening violations of fundamental rights. I come back to the conditions of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The CGRA still warned you. First, he requested further information on the alleged facts in the past. I do not know if the government will accept the opening of a supplementary investigation. However, the CGRA report is clear: it wishes to continue its investigations. To this question, the government has not yet answered. Like previous speakers, I would like to point out that the conditions of section 3 have not been met in cases of repatriation of persons. Moreover, they may not be so in future cases either. In particular, it is not acceptable for those who may be repatriated to have been heard in advance for identification by representatives of the Sudanese regime. It is a violation of article 3, which will be challenged before courts if the sbires of the Sudanese regime have been called to know the personal situation of people who may be repatriated before protection measures are taken against them. I am thinking in particular of the quality of the interview that must take place between the parties concerned and the authorities, but more so with members of the Office of Foreigners; a suggestion that I had made to the Prime Minister and which seemed to me to have found an echo, including in some of your public statements. Indeed, the Office of Foreigners is not the body able to assess whether the conditions of Article 3 are met, because it is a judge is party. Can you confirm that in future, this procedure for assessing compliance with the conditions of Article 3 will be carried out by the CGRA or any other independent body, but more empowered to assess than the Office of Foreigners?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u46	Mr President, have I not already answered this question? I think this is a weird way of working. Mr Maingain did not hear the answer. He's coming here to perform another show, when I've already answered all those questions. I don't think this is right. There are certain rules, aren't there? MEPs are doing their best to be present in Parliament in good time. I understand that Mr Maingain has a small group, and have every respect for that, Mr Maingain, you are here when I answer the questions of six or seven Members. You don't ask your question, but at the end there will be a bit of intermediate bikes and a big show because there are some cameras here. You are asking all kinds of questions to which I have already replied. You couldn't even get the courtesy to be present during my answer. Is that a political cabaret here or is that a parliament here?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u47	I'd like you to take it in that tone. I have no problem. I have some parliamentary experience and that is not what will move me very much. I know you tried to pretend that the CGRA report had cleared you of everything. We're far from it when we look at it in detail. However, he pointed out that he had failed to comply with the conditions of Article 3. Whether you like it or not, he asks for further investigation. I am waiting to know under what conditions this will continue. It's a real subject and you won't get away with it, as you all say: "Circulate, there's nothing more to see; I've been cleared by the CGRA report." That's not the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u48	Then come on time!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u49	You can keep interrupting. That's not what's going to change the argument. You will have to continue to be accountable for compliance with Article 3 of the European Convention, whether you like it or not. The aim is to ensure that international conventions are still respected in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u50	Mr Secretary of State, you have not answered a number of questions, including to what extent one has a view of the region of origin of the Sudanese who have been repatriated. The Commissioner-General had drawn up a number of recommendations for a number of regions. That's what they were pulsing about? Is this in the file or not? I had also asked about the role of the embassy in Cairo. Has the embassy been contacted and will she be assigned a role? Why wasn't that role defined in the past? I also asked Minister Reynders this question and he replied to me that he was open to dialogue with you, but nothing really happened. My main concern is how in the future we will ensure that the procedures are final, so that we do not get them in the face like a boomerang when we remove people? A number of recommendations have been made on the basis of the inquiry carried out by the Commissioner-General, the procedure is reviewed and a follow-up committee can be set up. It has been said for a month that this is being done, and I think it should be done much faster. What concerns me throughout the story is the cooperation between the DVZ and the Commissioner-General, in a number of dossiers. How do we avoid duplication of administration? How can we ensure that both the DVD and the Commissioner-General can make the most of the available information so that there is openness? Who gives what advice or who takes the final decision in what situation? Or should there always be cooperation in order to arrive at a jointly justified decision? I have a number of ideas and scenarios that I would like to give you if you are interested. I believe that cooperation between the DVD and the Commissioner-General, which often has much more information about the local situation and whether or not certain regions are safe and certain countries should be more careful so that stronger decisions can be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u51	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. For the record, you say that the implementation of the recommendations contained in the report must first be discussed by the government. The government will also examine best practices in other countries. However, on the question of whether it would theoretically be possible for the repatriation of Sudanese people who have not applied for asylum to be restarted, you reply that this can be done after taking into account the recommendations. If both answers are placed side by side, this means that expulsions to Sudan cannot yet be restarted, because the implementation of the report has not yet been discussed by the government and therefore has not yet been finalised. I do not know what time limit we are talking about, but hopefully this means that we have a number of weeks before we have a clear conclusion on the implementation of the Commissioner-General's report. In other words, expulsions to Sudan are not possible until this report is discussed in detail again by the government. Didn't I just understand that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u52	The 13 Dubliners can continue, because that concerns other European countries. The two Sudanese who were detained with the asylum procedure will be released as a positive result and will be granted the recognised refugee status. They will then stay in Belgium. If they fail to do so, they will be able to leave because they have had the examination of Article 3 in the application for asylum. Well, you can. If the third is someone who does not apply for asylum and yet fears the review of Article 3, then the government must first discuss how the review of Article 3 will take place. Specifically, for 15 out of 16 people there is no problem, and as far as that one person is concerned, I will have the information requested and I will deliver it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u53	That's obvious. So first the government will discuss the matter in detail. So it is not the case that your services and possibly the Commissioner-General can say that they will take the recommendations of the report into account on their own, so that they can send a Sudanese back to Sudan if he has not applied for asylum in Belgium? So that's not gonna be possible. The order is therefore: first the government discussion, then the implementation, followed by the conclusions and recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u54	Just so we're clear, it's the core.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u55	Of course, in the coming weeks, a Sudanese may show up who has not applied for asylum in our country and would be eligible for return. That will not be possible until it has been discussed in the government. I am following Mrs De Coninck in the sense that I am also afraid that a number of questions were not answered. For example, which nationalities will be subject to the additional review under Article 3? Is it just about Sudan or about other nationalities? Are there any identification missions planned, including with other countries? One of the policy changes announced by the Prime Minister in Parliament was that the identification missions should be better screened by our security services. That too will have to be implemented. I personally think that is very important, especially when the government says it wants to continue working on Sudanese identification missions with which we do not agree, for the sake of clarity. We believe that expulsion should be possible, of course, if necessary, but always in accordance with our standards and values, and we must keep the direction of expulsion policy in our own hands as much as possible. Certainly a Sudanese identification mission in our offices should be invited with an interpreter or official close by so that we can keep a certain check. As far as the case of the Sudanese asylum seeker who was first scheduled to be deported is concerned, it is not a question of defending that person. You said we should be careful who we defend, but that's not the point. We do not defend that person, but we do want to know whether the investigation into a possible breach of Article 3 of the ECHR has taken place. An asylum application has been submitted and you are right to say that this person undoubtedly switched between nationalities, but the question is whether the risk of inhuman treatment or torture has been investigated in his capacity as Sudanese or has it only been investigated in his capacity as Eritrean? Surely it is an identification mission from Sudan that has shown that he really is Sudanese? That was also a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u56	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u57	Yes, but isn't it true that a Sudanese identification mission has shown that he is Sudanese? Wasn't that the case at any time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u58	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u59	To investigate the risk of a return to Eritrea is, of course, something different from a return to Sudan, even though Sudan only acts as a relay to Eritrea. If that man turns out to be Sudanese, and he is scheduled to be on an expulsion flight to Sudan, as has happened because he was planning to be deported, then that investigation of the risk of torture and inhumane treatment such as Sudanese in Sudan must have happened. According to the lawyer of the person concerned, that didn't happen. There's been a mistake. The expulsion has also been cancelled, Mr Secretary of State. There's a reason for that. Something went wrong again. The lawyer's comments and objections have been followed, and that doesn't just happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u60	Mr President, at the end of the presentation of the CGRA report, the Prime Minister stated, inter alia, that:"6. A further examination of the substance of the need for protection, including a need under Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, will be carried out for those who do not apply and those who are the subject of forced return. 7. The Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration will submit to the Government the modalities of this additional review, with regard to Article 3." By listening to your answer today, Mr. Francken, I am not quite sure that you have heard or understood the Prime Minister's statements, let alone that you wanted to implement them. Indeed, in your answer, you still distinguish between those who applied for asylum and those who did not. The Court of Appeal, the Court of Cassation and the CGRA report say that you have not done what is necessary under Article 3. These three institutions are not political parties or "bobo-gaucho" citizen movements. They are institutions and they say that you have not done what is necessary! You keep saying you're cleared. I think you're the only one who believes it. There's something extremely cynical about your answer. Compared to the Sudanese who said they were ill-treated, in your opinion, as some did not tell the whole truth or perhaps a little lie or a little change the facts, so they lied and are therefore wrong about everything. When you know your way of doing things and your history in this government, it is rather cynical and I regret that this rule is not applied to members of the government. Therefore, Mr Franken, for the Socialist Group, you are not whitewashed. You have made mistakes and you have not yet assumed any political responsibility. I did not hear the terms and conditions that the Prime Minister announced. It's been a month, and if we start again, it's been more than two months now. In order to try to get answers and move forward on these essential modalities to guarantee the rights of these people, we will again question the Prime Minister and, of course, we will ask, as other colleagues have done, that the CGRA, as he himself wishes, also be able to continue his investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u61	Mr President, I would like to answer a few more questions. The review of Article 3 is currently being adapted and we are almost done with that. The review will apply to more countries than just Sudan. It's about repatriation in the broad sense. Will identification missions now be carried out under these conditions, namely screening, an interpreter, etc.? Yeah, that was a promise. Is there an identification mission on-going or planned for soon? No, not for the moment, but that can change quickly. As soon as an identification mission is planned, you'll notice. You will have to ask me from time to time and I will answer you. So it could be that there is still some planning going on. The report does not state that we are no longer allowed to carry out identification missions. We may continue to do so, but certain conditions must be respected, and I certainly intend to do so. Mrs. De Coninck, you asked 16 specific questions about one case. I don't know if I've answered all those questions. I might be able to answer another one about the region of origin. These are very detailed questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, I asked these very detailed questions because, according to the CGVS, Sudanese people coming from certain regions were at risk. Apparently, the DVZ did not take this into account and yet sent a number of Sudanese people back to those regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u63	That's not true. I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u64	The question is to what extent was it investigated which region these Sudanese came from. That's why I asked the detailed questions. I also submitted it in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u65	A review of Article 3 of the ECHR was carried out for everyone. If persons had specific fears, linked to their region of origin, the asylum procedure is the appropriate way forward. Moreover, it concerns not only the declared region of origin, which has not been confirmed, but also a recent provenance and possible internal flight alternative. Besides, we're repatriating to Khartoum, of course we're not repatriating to the Blue Nile or Darfur.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, an identification mission is coming from Sudan to our country. It must be able to check whether the person concerned is from Sudan. That should be demonstrated by the identification. You are going to repatriate them to Khartoum, of course, but to what extent are they safe when they come from another region? The situation is quite complicated in Sudan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u67	(...) Finally, with regard to Syria versus Sudan, the following. That is, of course, two different things. The degree of recognition of Syrians throughout Europe is 98% or 99%; each Syrian is recognised. In the case of Sudanese, the degree of recognition is below 50%, so half of the Sudanese people are not recognised. There is no conflict going on in Sudan, which has been and still is in Syria. I did not say at all that there are no problems in Sudan, so do not put words in my mouth. But saying that the situation in Syria and Sudan is the same is slightly overridden.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u68	Mrs De Coninck, you have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u69	I hope that my written questions will be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u70	I thought I was up to speed with my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u71	No, I have now put two or three questions orally because you were too late to answer them in writing. However, these are annoying questions, because I ask for a lot of data in them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u72	How long am I gonna be late?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u73	I understand that you cannot read everything and that, if you read the answer, you will do so very quickly, but I cannot even record it that way. So I'm making a friendly, warm call, with all due respect, I'm not trying to snap you off to get an answer to my written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u74	You never snap at me. Yesterday I discussed it again with my head of the cabinet: on 1 January I was there with everything, but apparently I am already behind a few questions. However, some questions are not answerable, others are very technical and require a lot of statistical research work. Almost full-time a statistician at the Foreign Affairs Office is already working on answering questions, but sometimes the questions are very detailed. I still have one or two questions that are a year old, but the information for that is just almost impossible to get. Then we have to ask for information from the prosecutors, from the police, and by the time we get the answer, the 30-day deadline has long passed. However, I will certainly discuss it again, Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u75	I asked detailed questions about the Sudanese. No masses of Sudanese were sent back. Normally, that's very recent information based on the files. If you can't answer it, just say so. That's how I know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u76	Debates of the European Parliament 23158 by Mr Van Hees will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u77	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I have recently asked your colleague, Minister of Justice Koen Geens, about the number of illegal detainees who are incarcerated in the prisons of Tournai and Leuze. In his response, the Minister stated that as of October 20, 2017, the number of detainees without right of residence was 47 in Tournai and 92 in Leuze. Mr Secretary of State, my questions follow on from my previous question. What procedure does it apply to unlawfully staying prisoners who have served their sentences? Do they have to leave the territory? If so, how does this happen in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u78	Mr President, Mr Delannois, thanks to the intense cooperation between the Office of Foreigners and the Department of Justice, we have managed to substantially increase the number of expulsions of foreigners from prison. Last year, 1,622 foreigners were removed from the prison after being released. In 2012, they were only 378. As soon as a foreigner is arrested, the Office shall examine his file. If the alien has residence status, it is checked whether this status can be withdrawn on the basis of the facts committed. When the alien is illegally staying in the territory, the Agency begins preparations for his removal. The Agency's migrant escorts are present in prisons to try to convince the alien to cooperate in his or her removal by gathering all the information relevant to his or her identification. The aim is to close the deportation files at the time of release, so that the person concerned can be transferred directly from prison to removal without being taken to a closed centre. So the figures are good; they are rising. I have an interesting table for you here, Mr Delannois, which I hand over to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u79	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u80	I put my own question No. 23430 in a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u81	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of February you announced that some 584 asylum seekers have been waiting for a final decision in their asylum dossier for more than five years. You indicated that you would seek a solution for these people, on a case-by-case basis. My questions are as follows. Who is it about in that group of 584 people? Which profiles is it mostly about? Are the first asylum applications or multiple applications? Are they people waiting for a decision from the RV? Is it about very complex dossiers that have been dragging on for years? If so, why? Are some nationalities more represented than others? Are you starting from the current procedure or are these people going to have to submit a new application for asylum or regularisation? Will they be accompanied by a new application? Will you involve the Commission of Advice for Foreigners? You also say that you will assess cases on a case-by-case basis. How will you proceed and what criteria will you apply? You have discretion when it comes to regularization. In most cases, however, it may not be about regularisation. Or will you ask for an asylum application to be dealt with as quickly as possible? Can you even ask me that? What if it turns out that some people have been in a particular procedure for years, out of their mind? So I am not talking about people who have applied for different applications over and over again, but about people whose procedure has taken far too long in the government. In such a case, as has happened in the past, will you regularise these people on the basis of too long a procedure? The latter can of course only be done if there are no negative elements in the file. Does the proposed solution for these people mean that they will be granted an indefinite right of residence, or will this mean a temporary residence permit first? I have one small additional question. Are those 584 people only concerned with people in shelters or in LOIs, or are they also concerned with people who, for example, have been waiting for more than five years for a ruling in their asylum procedure and who are now living independently?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u82	For the record, it is not about people who are all in the asylum procedure. Firstly, I would like to clarify that it is not the case that those 584 people have been waiting five years for an answer to their first asylum application. On the contrary, it concerns people who have been living in the Fedasil reception network for more than five years. Just because they have been in care for so long, it is necessary to examine the reason for this. About half of that group still has an asylum application running at the CGVS, or the RVV. However, it does not necessarily concern the first asylum application. It should also be noted that, in many cases, applications which are considered to be the first asylum application are a new first asylum application from another member of the family. That's a new trend. You know that, too. For example, a new asylum application is made in the name of the children or one child, and next time in the name of the other child. If you have many children, you can, of course, submit many applications for asylum. Almost one in five have been granted an extension of the right of reception. Often these are very specific situations, so that an end to reception is not immediately possible. You will understand that these are often very complex situations, which need to be examined on a case-by-case basis by the administrations. A working group was set up with Fedasil, the DVZ, the RVV and the CGVS to find out where the delay is caused, where the file is located or what the reason is. It could be a LOI, but it could be within the Fedasil collection network. It can be an open reception centre as well as a LOI, where people have been staying for a long time. In the vast majority of cases it concerns families (73.6 %) and to a lesser extent single men (15 %). The group also consists of two-parent families (5 %) and single women (3 %). I have a whole series of numbers. I can just give it to you. In all situations, we strive for proper but efficient procedures and as short a stay as possible in the asylum centres. This is to the benefit of both the asylum seeker himself and the taxpayer. The fact that these people have been in the reception centres for so long indicates that in most cases they are complex dossiers, with specific problems. A case-by-case approach is therefore needed to achieve a sustainable solution for each of these dossiers. The assessment is carried out by the administrations concerned, within a working group that I have set up for this purpose. For each dossier, the options will be examined on the basis of the specific elements. For the files still in progress, either an initial application for asylum, a multiple application for asylum or a new application for asylum by another member of the family, priority will be given by the CGIS. For the files for which an asylum application is no longer pending, a case-by-case assessment will be made of the possibilities for return, whether voluntary or forced, and/or, if a return on the basis of the individual dossier is not an option, there are possibilities for regularisation. Where regularisation is involved, the persons concerned must go through the ordinary procedure, either through an application 9a or 9b. In the event of a positive conclusion of the regularisation procedure, a temporary stay will be granted. The granting of a temporary stay is the standard procedure for all regularisations. The same goes for them, of course. We're working on that one step at a time. Over the longest twenty or thirty files we come together every two weeks to find a solution for those people on a case-by-case basis. Sometimes it will be a return. In many cases, there will be regularization, given that these people have been here for so long. However, regularisation will not be applied to everyone. For example, there are cases where there are serious problems of public order, and you know that I am watching very closely and do not wish to grant regularisation to criminals. Some files are very difficult. We'll take a good look at that. You can trust me in that, and I know you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u83	Mr Secretary of State, I always say: trust is good, control is better. As a Member of Parliament, I also have the task of controlling the members of the government, as you did at the time from your parliamentary office. Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. You did not mention some of the figures requested. Mr President, can these figures be included in the report of this committee meeting, or should the Secretary of State really read them all out?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u84	They cannot be included in the report, as the spoken word counts for reporting. However, you may be given the documents. We can also publish the figures on the extranet, allowing everyone to have access to them. However, it is not possible to include in the report at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u85	Mr Secretary of State, would you perhaps read these figures out for me?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u86	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u87	You were almost done with that anyway. Otherwise, it's double work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u88	The vast majority are families (73.6 %) to a lesser extent on single men (15 %). Furthermore, this group consists of two-parent families, couples (5 %) and single women (3 %). Family type: family 73.6 %, single men 15 %, two parent families 5 %, single women 3 %, other 2 %. Total 100 %. As far as administrative status is concerned: asylum seekers 50%, extension right to reception 17.3%, multiple application for asylum 14.3 %. The top three nationalities are Russia, Iraq and Armenia. Figures on the main nationalities are: Russia 14.4 %, Iraq 7.8 %, Armenia 6.2 %, Rwanda 5.8 %, Guinea 5.7 %, Afghanistan 5.5 %, Kosovo 4.7 %, Serbia 4.4 %, Turkey 3.9 %, Georgia 3.6 % and Congo 3.6 %. It is actually a panoply of nationalities, but the largest group are Russians, especially from Chechnya, Dagestan and so on. This brings us back to the migration crisis of early 2000, which means a very long stay, but also in the period after that we have always received a lot of Russians, with often very complex dossiers, many procedures and also procedural abuse, if I may say so, and many asylum applications, one after the other. All right, I hope we can find solutions to that. You also know the Armenians, there are a lot of them in Antwerp. For Armenians, too, these are often very complex dossiers. It would be good, also financially, to solve that, because this costs a lot of money. I'm not talking about human costs. However, it is not good that there is no clarity. The oldest file is 17 years old.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u89	It's not about a bunch of files. It's about 600 files. On what term do you see it completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u90	All files for more than two or three years in reception should be examined as soon as possible. Five years ago, I thought, was huge, but in fact, dossiers of two to three years old should also be looked at. We have now agreed to start with the longest resident. Those are also the hardest cases. That's what action committees are gonna do. You are going to ask me questions in committee about the family X and the family Y, as Mr Vercamer did. If one starts to tackle that list, then one gets something like that. Or one should collectively regularize everyone, in the dive. Then there will be no action committees, then everyone is content. If one does this case on a case-by-case basis and in some cases has to make a hard decision, then one is still working for a while. In the meantime, there are new cases which go beyond the five-year threshold, which still have to be monitored. Then we go to the three years. I hope that by the end of the year we will have made a great deal of progress in these 580 dossiers. It doesn't go that fast, but we get together a lot. My administration knows that I think this is really a priority, but it is extremely difficult. They are also often LOIS, OCMW executives, municipal authorities. The local context is also not always easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u91	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u92	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Janssen's 23600 was converted into a written question. The next item is the joint questions by Mrs Van Cauter and Mrs Pas on the orders to leave the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u93	Mr Secretary of State, if you no longer meet the conditions for staying on the territory, you will be ordered by the government to leave the territory. A stranger in such a situation therefore receives an order. He can follow this up voluntarily and independently. If he does not, he may be locked in a closed centre or housing unit for forced removal from the territory. The order shall be served by the municipality of the place of residence of the person concerned, the police or the DVZ. In some cases, it doesn't stick to one served order. It happens all too often that someone gets repeated orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u94	I'd like to interrupt. These are questions about a lot of statistics. So my answer is a sentence. I would ask you to put in writing questions on detailed and detailed figures, as required by Rule 122b of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u95	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that you are making this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u96	I just want to prevent you from asking the whole question and saying that you should put it in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u97	I understand. I've just had a meeting with my colleague. We were both of the opinion that the questions should be put in writing rather than orally. So I understand what you're saying. However, we could have been told that earlier. I don't blame you. The question was accepted in that way. I would therefore ask you to deal with them as soon as possible. You also understand that, in view of the work on some drafts, we would like to have some information and that it is not appropriate to wait too long for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u98	I will try to provide a written reply to both of you in the next week. I think that these questions should first be submitted in writing, for purely technical reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u99	Mr President, will the questions then be converted into written questions? I intended to put my question in writing. I saw that Mrs Van Cauter's question was oral and I supported it, also in view of the average time for replying to written questions from the Secretary of State. If he can guarantee us that we will have the answers in the next week, that will of course not be a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u100	I said I'd do my best. It's a commitment to effort, not a commitment to results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u101	Do we have to file them as a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u102	We will now turn the questions into written questions. This automatically brings them to the secretariat of the written questions. They will then be answered by the cabinet in that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u103	We will then, if possible within the week, receive an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u104	In any case, that is what the report says. Consequently, the combined question No. No 23637 by Mrs Van Cauter and No 23637 by Mrs Van Cauter and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr President, ladies and
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u105	Mr Secretary of State, I regret that the press is focusing on a few issues and that he is not interested in the questions that can be asked outside them. I will first mention the 2016 ASA measurement report highlighting the positive results of your actions in reducing administrative costs. The report mentions that some of these results are due to the increasing use of digital in administrative processes. The administration 4.0, as some people like to call this new method of governance, therefore seems to be cost-effective from a budgetary point of view. It also allows for greater transparency for our citizens. At the same time, Belgium promotes the development of an open government, with greater ease of access to public data via, for example, the data.gov.be platform. Civil society actors, such as Open Knowledge Belgium, are also involved in the establishment of an Open Government. I am therefore somewhat questioning the fact that our country is not a member of the Open Government Partnership. This multilateral organisation also promotes a policy of administrative transparency and citizen participation via digital tools, but it allows to go even further by encouraging its members to harmonise in this area. Mr Secretary of State, can you explain the absence of our country in this organisation, knowing that all our neighbours and many Western democracies have decided to take the step? Is accession possible in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u106	Mr Flahaux, following a parliamentary question asked in July 2017, we considered the possibility of joining the Open Government Partnership. Belgium meets the criteria for access, but this implies the mobilisation of human and financial resources which are too limited at the moment. This does not prevent Belgium from working with other EU and OECD countries to promote data openness and digitisation within its administrations. The Digital Transformation DG of the Strategy and Support SPF and the SAA, which are the open data task force, are also in regular contact with business and civil society, including the Open Knowledge Foundation. Belgium's accession to the Open Government Partnership remains entirely possible when human and financial resources permit. A few months ago, in November or December, I was in Paris for a major OECD conference on digitalisation. I made a speech on Open Government and open data. That was very positive. We have entered into many partnerships, including with Tunisia and other OECD countries, to learn from other countries. Indeed, there are many challenges and many countries are moving very quickly in this area because this is the future. Digitalization and the concept of an Open Government are crucial and key elements for the future. I fully agree with you, but you must know that the ASA's resources amount to 13 people and 1.7 million euros per year. That's not much! I do not currently have the human and financial resources necessary for this accession.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u107	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer and for your frankness. You have pointed out the absence or limitation of financial and human resources. As part of either a budget amendment or the 2019 budget, I hope you will be able to obtain these resources. Indeed, you yourself highlight, and I thank you, the importance that this represents for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u108	Mr Secretary of State, my question concerns the announced closure of a barracks in Belgrade, which is also a refugee reception centre. According to reports in the press, the Red Cross, a tenant of part of the Belgrade barracks site for two years, and, by extension, the 300 refugees residing there, are expected to leave the premises on 1 April, in less than a month's time. This would have been decided by the Ministry of Defence, the owner of the site. The site would be sold in its entirety to the Economic Office of Namur province, which wishes to create a park of economic activities for SMEs. The Red Cross seems not to have been informed and the Defence claims to have informed your department. The Red Cross officials on the spot tell us that they have learned the news in the press. Secretary of State, can you confirm this information? How do you explain that the centre was informed so late, and by misguided means? Do you have any information about the Defence's intentions? Does it actually sell the entire site or only part of it? In this context, is cohabitation with the Economic Office of Namur Province possible? I hope that we will not reach this point, but, if so, what solutions are envisaged for the relocation of asylum seekers present on this site?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u109	Mrs Grovonius, during the influx of asylum seekers in 2015 and 2016, each asylum seeker benefited from shelter and shelter, thanks to the good collaboration with my Defence colleague. Defence has made good arrangements, such as opening barracks and turning them into reception centres. As a result, we have managed to deal with the biggest humanitarian crisis since the Second World War. The condition was that the occupation of barracks by asylum-seekers did not constitute an obstacle to a possible change of destination or sale of a barracks. It was the agreement between Steven Vandeput and myself. My firm and Fedasil had long been aware of the possible sale of the Belgrade site, but it was not yet definitive. On February 27, 2018, the Defense Office informed both Fedasil and my firm of the final sale of the Belgrade site. Fedasil, as host network manager, and the Red Cross will discuss with the new owner, BEP, how to close this reception centre. In collaboration with the Red Cross, Fedasil's partner, we will examine the steps to be taken to ensure that the move takes place in the best possible conditions, with a limited impact for residents. When we have all the elements in our possession, we will examine all the possibilities and make a decision that takes into account the well-being of the residents. Is it final or not? We'll see about it in the next few days. If there were to be a move, we have already experienced it several times in the past and I am sure that it will take place in optimal conditions. Yesterday, Belgium had for the first time fewer than 17,000 asylum seekers in reception centres. We currently have a capacity of 22,000 to 23,000 places. So there's room, it's not a problem. If you put a new question in a few days, I think we'll know more. Many barracks are on sale and sometimes it takes decades before they are actually sold. We knew for several years that the Belgrade site could be sold by the Defence. Now it's final and we need to act quickly. We do not lack experience, we have already experienced similar situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u110	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for these points of answer. I stress that the deadlines announced are extremely short. We're talking about a closure in less than a month. I have no doubt there are seats. Nevertheless, they are human beings who have been living in this centre for some time. There is the question of children or residents who are undergoing training in this area, who have undertaken a series of things in Namur. These are not objects that can be easily moved from one place to another within such a limited time frame. So I really insist that all parties be able to get around the table in order to find a humane and viable solution for all parties. Human beings must be at the centre of reflection. For example, it would be sufficient for Defence, initially, not to sell the entire site since the Provincial Economic Office (BEP) does not need the entire site. There are avenues and can be implemented. I also put a question to your colleague, Steven Vandeput, but we do not normally have a question-and-answer session with him this week. I will not fail to come back to you and Mr Vandeput to see what progress has been made on this issue. At the Namur level, there is a willingness to continue the welcome work that has been carried out over the last two years around this centre and – as I said and I repeat – to place these human beings at the centre of our reflection and action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u111	Mr Secretary of State, the rules for calculating the time limit for registration of a national of a Member State of the European Union are laid down in Article 6 of the Act of 15 December 1980. Unless authorized by a ministerial authority, the person concerned may not be granted successive stays for a total period of more than 90 days over a total period of 180 days. This implies that, if a person leaves Belgian territory or crosses the border of a Schengen European State, the date of entry always seems to be the date of the first arrival on the territory. Freedom of movement is one of the attributes of European citizenship, but remains subject to certain conditions. The right to stay in Belgium for a citizen of the Union is thus subject to various registration procedures. In fact, he must declare himself to the commune where he has decided to live and prove his income. There are three criteria referred to in Article 40 of the above Law: salaried, self-employed, student or annuitant. So I have a few questions to ask you about this. Is the calculation of successive stays applied or is the 90-day period zeroed if the person leaves the territory? European legislation recognizes that free movement may, depending on the country, be subject to conditions. What kind of penalty does it apply to a citizen of the European Union in the event of a lack of a declaration of registration in the municipality or of a lack of proof of sufficient income? What controls does the Office of Foreigners envisage in these cases? Since an exemption granted by the Minister is possible, I would like to know, Mr. Secretary of State, whether you issued it in 2017 and at the beginning of this year? If so, how much?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u112	Mrs Fernandez, Article 6 of the 1980 Act is not only applicable to third-country nationals. The special provisions concerning citizens of the European Union are set out in Title 2, Chapters 1 and 1a of the Act. Clearly, when a Union citizen leaves Belgium after a short stay of up to three months, he can return immediately for a further period of three months. Second, registration is not compulsory when the length of stay of a Union citizen in a Member State other than that of which he is a national is less than three months. In the case of successive stays in several other Member States, the same period shall apply in each Member State. After that date, the person concerned is obliged to register by applying for a certificate of registration with the municipal administration of the place of residence. If it fails to comply, Article 24 4-2 provides for the possibility of imposing an administrative fine of EUR 200. If a citizen of the European Union does not fulfil the conditions of residence, the Office may refuse or withdraw his or her right of residence. This can be the case, for example, when it becomes an unreasonable burden on the social assistance system. What controls are envisaged by the Agency in this case? Each month, the SPPIS shall notify the Office of the citizens of the Union to whom it provides assistance or income. The Office of Foreigners shall review their situation in accordance with their right to be heard before any decision terminating their stay. I don't think Mr. Puigdemont is receiving social assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u113	You're the one talking about Mr. Puigdemont, it's not me. To understand correctly, I summarize: when a citizen leaves the territory, the meter is reset to zero; if it does so regularly, it could almost be considered a fraud. Then the citizens are not equal: there are those who will have the means to leave the territory and those who will not. I'm not saying that's what you're saying. I'm interpreting. European citizens, who have the opportunity to leave the country every three months, have a reset meter. If you tell me it's the law, I believe you. Those who can't afford it...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u114	It does not take many ways to take a bus to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u115	We need a certificate, I guess. It's not enough to get out of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u116	Almost everyone can do it. Taking the train or bus to France or the Netherlands is not very expensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u117	Should he not justify a reason to leave the territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u118	By virtue of free movement, no! But if he wants to stay for more than three months, he has to register in the commune, as European.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-06-54-commissie-ic832x.u119	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeulen has converted 23432 into a written question.
