ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the list of Frequently Asked Questions on the tax shelter for performing arts. Clarity in this area is of course important if we are not to be bored in practice with the application of the measures and to put everything in order administratively. In my questions Nos 24871 to 24874 I have also listened to them. Now I focus on point 20 of the FAQ, on the qualifying expenses that may be made up to one month after the premiere. According to the FAQ, not all expenditure is meant, but only production and operating expenditure before the premiere. Thus, for example, the transport costs associated with a tour, as well as the costs of dismantling or rebuilding the stage, are not accepted. However, I believe that this is a wrong interpretation of a clear law, as the law clearly states that qualifying expenses can be made no later than one month after the premiere. Minister, I respect the law. The law can be seen in practice, but the legal text does not specify that the expenditure must be paid before the premiere has taken place, but that the performance must be done within the month following the premiere. I believe that a condition is added here that is not included in the legislative text. In addition, point 28 of the FAQ deals with another item. The costs of advertising on TV and radio, as well as the costs of social media marketing which are not directly linked to the production and operation of the stage work, are refused, whereas the costs of advertising in the written press, posters, flyers or the creation of press files or websites are costs directly related to the production and operation of the stage work. In this context, Minister, it is logical in 2018 that social media advertising or advertising on TV and radio may relate to the premiere, and may therefore have to do with attracting audiences for the premiere. By the way, these advertisements have the same objective as offline advertisements in the printed press or through posters. Here are my questions. Why does the administration add a condition to the legal text relating to costs up to one month after the premiere, while the legal text does not provide for this? Can you explain why, for example, transport costs or costs of demolition or reconstruction are not accepted as qualifying expenditure, whereas these are covered by the text of the law? Sectoral consultation is also important. The interpretation was discussed with the sector, which of course has a lot of expertise for such an administrative and operational process. Can you clarify whether the costs incurred before the premiere are to be paid within the month following the premiere, or is it sufficient that they are then invoiced or booked? I'm coming to the second hatch. Why is there discrimination against social media, online marketing and radio and TV advertising? Why are we not talking about all the costs directly related to the production and operation of the stagework? By the way, what would be its ratio if the legal text didn't make this division? Then why should there be another treatment for posters, flyers and advertisements in the newspaper, especially when these include attracting premiere audiences?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u2	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, the tax shelter system provides for an exemption from taxable profits within certain conditions and limits on the amounts committed by a qualifying investor in the course of a taxable period in the implementation of a framework agreement. This framework agreement shall be concluded with a view to financing the production of a qualifying work and obtaining a tax shelter test by the eligible investor. It is also in this way that the tax relief system has been notified as aid to the European Commission. The legal provisions on the tax relief system therefore show that the production and operating costs are those related to the actual production of the eligible work. As I have already said, the legislator has chosen that qualifying expenditure related to stage production can be incurred within a period ending no later than one month after the premiere, as a result of which a number of important costs such as personnel costs will be borne. In this way, the legislator wanted to take some account of the fact that the increase in eligible works also entails production and operating costs. Consequently, the production and operating costs considered as such, where they are incurred before the premiere takes place, may retain that qualification within the time limit ending no later than one month after the premiere. However, neither the legislative text nor the discussion of the legal provisions in question reveals the intention to also finance all expenditure relating to the post-première performances through the tax shelter system. I therefore believe that my administration does not add any conditions with regard to the correct application of the statutory provisions in question. Expenditure related to a tour cannot be considered as qualifying expenditure as they do not contribute to the final production of the eligible work. A stage work that goes on tour is therefore already a funded final project. Moreover, the performances of a tour can be sold in advance to, for example, cultural centres, and therefore tax shelter funding is no longer required for this type of performance. The position on my administration has been known for a long time in the sector. The FAQ on the stagework tax relief system was established following a wide consultation of the sector. This consultation highlighted the sector's concerns in particular in order to have a clear, streamlined and workable system. The FAQ on the tax shelter system for performing arts clarifies some legal provisions to be able to provide legal certainty just for everyone. There are no special rules for expenditure incurred within the period of one month after the premiere. In order to determine the date on which the expenditure was incurred, the service or supplies of goods must actually take place within 24 months of the date of signature of the framework agreement and at the latest one month after the premiere. In addition, such expenditure must have actually been paid or borne during that period or have become of a certain and fixed debt or loss and have been booked as such. In addition, in the field of VAT, the rules relating to the invoicing of services or supplies of goods must, of course, be strictly observed. These provisions are also clearly included in the fifth paragraph of the cited FAQ 20. In fact, for publications and promotional work-related expenditure, the law only provides for a limited number of expenditure which can be regarded as expenditure directly linked to the production and exploitation of a eligible work. It concerns the publications relating to posters, flyers, the creation of the press file, a website or web page dedicated to production, as well as the premiere. Expenditure other than those expressly mentioned in the law may, in principle, constitute expenditure not directly linked to production. At the request of the sector, an administrative tolerance was provided to consider advertisements in the written press and mailings as expenditure directly linked to production. Moreover, expenditure on social media marketing and TV and radio advertising also represents indirect expenditure on the application of the tax shelter for audiovisual productions. Finally, I would like to point out that the legal provisions in question were subject to prior consultation with various actors in the sector and with the three Communities concerned. The tax relief system for stage productions aims to ensure the best possible transposition of the principles of audiovisual productions in order to ensure the balance between the two systems. Where necessary, the individuality of stage productions was taken into account. The review of the application of the tax relief system through administrative tolerances could call into question the prior consultation and seems to me to undermine legal certainty in its application. It must not be forgotten that the tax relief system is a form of state aid which must, of course, remain compatible with European Union rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u3	Mr President, Minister, you are taking a position on a number of issues. That's what makes it clear. We must accept this, sometimes not always heartfelt. One can discuss, for example, transport for the premiere; without transport there would be no production, but on that part the rules might be clearer. I find it more difficult to accept it for the second part, where there is an administrative tolerance when it comes to non-directly qualifying expenditure, for example for the written press, but not when it comes to social media marketing or online advertising. There is a real discrimination based on carrier. A multitude of problems have been provoked, also in the context of the FAQ. If we say that there is an update there, given the new techniques and technologies, I would advise you to look at that part very specifically. After all, that is something that is difficult to explain. I do not argue that people are cramped and that they are not allowed to qualify if it is indirect, but it is no longer time to say that flyers can be qualified on paper, but not if the same flyer is distributed and advertised electronically, or that advertising can be done in a magazine or a weekly magazine, but exactly the same layout and message on a website is not? That seems to me to be a painful matter. We may be able to evaluate that again in the foreseeable future, but I would urge you to hold additional consultations to check whether an update of the administrative tolerance in the letter or the FAQ is really on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u4	Minister, the European Investment Bank (EIB), which is celebrating its 60th Spring this year, has recently published an encouraging review for 2017. In 2017, the institution approved 901 projects, an increase of 15% over the previous year, and more than €78 billion was spent on infrastructure, innovation, the environment and small and medium-sized enterprises. Yet the situation in our country has caught my attention. Between 2016 and 2017, operations financed by the bank in Belgium decreased by almost EUR 600 million, from only EUR 2.3 billion to EUR 1.6 billion. If the smaller number of large, costly projects, as was the case in 2016, makes it possible to explain in part this decrease, I would like to draw your attention to what I believe is a real obstacle to EIB lending to Belgian SMEs. The Belgian National Bank's interpretation of a financing tax seems to deter Belgian banks from offering EIB-guaranteed loans to SMEs. Mr Minister, do you think that the Belgian situation vis-à-vis the EIB needs to be improved? More broadly, how can Belgian SMEs be encouraged to access EIB loans? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u5	Mr Flahaux, the EIB's 2017 Activity Report presented in January 2018 to which you refer, does not show such signals for Belgium that are attributable to this methodology and that would make it possible to differentiate the Belgian situation from that of other Member States. This is not an interpretation of the law given by the National Bank but an application of the legal provisions common to the Member States, pursuant to the law of 3 August 2016 laying down the taxable basis for the bank tax. This law refers to a concept known to banks, that of reducing the reporting obligations to which they are subject. This law provides that the basis for calculating the bank tax is to be determined by reference to the item Debts to customers. The amounts are carried forward in Schedule A for Belgian banks to the National Bank. On the other hand, I would like to join you in joining our efforts to support Belgian start-ups, scale-ups and SMEs with the EIB. This includes greater publicity on the conditions for granting EIB loans, the EFSI guarantee and the EIF's support instruments, as well as on the technical assistance granted by instrument from the EU budget to our stakeholders. A dialogue with the banking and financial sector is also important in order to give priority to informing clients of EIB support. The Belgian investment plan will be an opportunity to implement such a communication to Belgian actors. Let us also hope that the IPPE portal of the Juncker plan can also play its attractive role as broker for calls for financing from our companies, as we see today in the applications we receive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u6	Thank you, Minister. By your answer, you are making the opportunities that exist better known. I have nothing to add. We will probably have an opportunity to take stock early next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u7	Minister, I questioned you a few months ago about the so-called fund of funds for growth companies. I now read in the press that FPIM asked the parties on 1 June for a proposal on management. The venture capital fund would have a minimum of 300 million and a maximum of 450 million, a kind of Belgian growth fund. There are already funds like the GIMV, the PMV, the SRIW in Wallonia. Is there really a need for a government initiative in this area? Young promising companies, the so-called scale-ups, which have to grow from Belgium to the international level, apparently have a problem with funding. A fund of funds could help with that. How's this fund going to work? The fund would not invest directly in the growth companies, but would invest money in funds that in turn seek companies. The fund's money will come both from the government, in this case the FPIM, and from institutional parties. What is the relationship with the PMV and the SRIW? Can't the FPIM do that on its own? Why does this require a new structure? How will private capital be involved? I read in the press that 51% of the fund in the management structure would be taken by private institutional investors. The government would take a minority of 49 %. The FPIM has asked parties to make a proposal by 1 June. The actual management would be carried out by a separate vehicle, in particular BGF Management. By autumn at the latest, it will become clear who gets the management and can start the search for investors. I think it is a very good idea, but the structures seem very unclear to me. Why does the federal government have to step into this? What added value does the creation of a fund have? Can't this happen through the FPIM? I believe that scale-ups should be able to grow to an international level, but it is not so clear to me where that structure is going to come from.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u8	As far as the need for this fund is concerned, it is indeed clear that the collection of seed capital for business activities is not a problem. Start-up capital can be found so to speak on every corner of the street. However, the problem arises in the financing of growth. If one analyses why so many of the growing companies go abroad, it turns out that they can find funds there more effectively, especially in the United States. The lack of these funds for growth companies has a lot to do with the amount of money. They are, of course, a lot higher than the initial capital. That is related to the relatively small investment funds we have. In this way, it is intended to upgrade funds that in turn invest in individual business activities. How will the fund be financed? By using institutional investors, insurance companies, pension funds, banks, large private investors and so on. Public investors such as regional investment companies are also called upon. Governance is designed in such a way that the fund is managed and managed completely independently by an investment committee in which institutional and independent investors represent a majority. Moreover, most of the capital has to come from the private sector anyway. The role of the FPIM is to set up the fund in practice. The FPIM also has a facilitating role in attracting capital from the institutional investors I referred to earlier. PMV and SRIW will also be called upon to invest in the fund, but the federal and regional investment companies never represent the majority of the capital invested. Finally, the fund will be managed by a fund manager, who will be chosen on the basis of a tendering procedure, which is now in progress. Among other things, it examines the experience, track record and knowledge of local and European markets in the field of growth funds, obviously at competitive conditions. The chosen fund manager will work within a framework of defined rules and governance structures, ensuring the independence of investment decisions at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u9	Minister, we will follow up on the dossier. However, I remain hungry about the need for such a fund. After all, I notice that the GIMV is on a pile of cash. I've read the latest annual report, and I used to be a guardian minister of the GIMV. The GIMV has gone on the international tour to the great displeasure of a number of Belgian companies and has been aiming for scale-ups for quite some time. By creating a new structure alongside the GIMV, it must be clear that the finality of the GIMV, you yourself note that there is a great deal of capital, and indeed that there is a great deal of it, is to channel the capital properly to the growth companies, of which we sometimes have too few. We will wait and see how things evolve. Nevertheless, you must prove that the so-called "roof funds', intended to "go through the roof', have added value. We will continue to follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u10	Mr Dewael is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u11	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked a number of questions in this House about the introduction of the support zones Kempen and Limburg, which were recognised in 2014. In order to support them, fiscal favor measures were developed, including a reduction in wages at federal level. Since then, a number of legislative changes have been introduced to make a number of adjustments to the first version of the scheme. This was mainly a relaxation of the initial legislation in order to take into account more questions. I have been informed that there are new changes to the regulation. We have just heard in the course of the work that there is a draft law with a number of new adjustments to that regulation. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. A first question concerns a new evaluation: where are we today? Do you have any new figures on job creation? The intention of the aid zones scheme and the tax favor measures was that after Ford Genk in Limburg and after a number of major restructurings in the Kempen, the creation of jobs had to be at the centre of those locations. The aim of the favor measure of the reduction of the wage burden was to create many additional jobs in those areas. Can you tell us what amendments the draft law will contain? Are these changes more a relaxation or a tightening-up of the regime? Can you provide more information on the planned timetable? I understand the draft was due to come to the Chamber next week. When is the new scheme scheduled to enter into force? Can you clarify how many new jobs have been created since the introduction of the destabilized zones scheme? Can you clarify how many new jobs were created in 2018? Can you give an overview of the additional employment for the provinces of Limburg and Antwerp? Can you give an overview of the number of jobs created, broken down by SMEs and large enterprises? Can you clarify how many new companies have established themselves under this scheme? I know that the last part of my questions contains quite a lot of figures. You can also give me this in writing if you like.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u12	I will give you the full figure table later, Mrs Smaers, but for the report I would like to make it clear that until today we are talking about 5 105 jobs. Really net new jobs. Genk and the Turnhoutse indeed have by far the largest share, with respectively, rounded, 3 600 and 1 400 jobs. With regard to the distribution between SMEs and large enterprises, it concerns, in conclusion, 3 300 jobs in SMEs and 1 800 in large enterprises. To date, a total of 39 companies have benefited from the measure. The date of closure is not included, but it was certainly very recent. There will be a new draft law, which will in particular give flexibility. I would like to give one example, without pre-empting the debate we will of course have on the demarcation of the areas of aid. The new regulation will take effect on the first day of the month following the month in which the law is published in the Belgian Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u13	Mr. Secretary, I apologize. I was on another committee. I couldn't be here sooner. Perhaps some of it has already been mentioned by my good colleague, Mrs Smaers. Companies investing in a defined assisted area can benefit from an exemption of 25% from the farm levy for a period of two years per additional job. You know the two assisted areas defined in the Flemish Region, namely one in Limburg and one in the region around Turnhout, in the Kempen. A third support area, around Zaventem, is now in full preparation. In the Walloon region too, it has now been understood that this is a successful formula, and it has now been proposed to delimit four of these zones. You have stated that this measure has in the past been good for some 4 300 jobs in total, of which 3 235 in Limburg and 1 114 in the province of Antwerp; 1 666 jobs were created by large companies and 2 683 in SMEs. Two weeks ago, the Council of Ministers adopted a new preliminary draft regulation which will make it more flexible. Several positive measures have been taken, such as the equalisation of the collective redundancies scheme, either from restructuring or from bankruptcy. Secondly, there was already a reduced threshold at a high level of youth unemployment. This reduced threshold will now also be introduced if the region concerned also has a high level of unemployment among people over 50 years of age. More flexibility is also provided and measures such as tailor-made measures. For example, the current limitation on the size of the assisted area is being made more flexible. Minister, do you have any more recent figures on job creation as a result of this arrangement? Following the amendment of the law, the Royal Decree of 28 April 2015 will also have to be amended. Will you ensure that this amendment is implemented at the same time as the legislative amendment? Thank you for taking that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u14	Mr Dewael, I will briefly mention a few figures, but I have a table of exhaustive employment figures for you on paper. So far, 5 100 jobs have been completed, including 3 600 in the Genk region and 1 400 in the Turnhout region. 3 200 jobs have been created in SMEs and 1 800 in large enterprises. So far, jobs have indeed been created almost exclusively in Flanders. You yourself gave an overview of what was approved at the Council of Ministers last week. Those measures are coming. You also asked a question about the royal decree. The Royal Decree will be amended after the draft is approved. It is not possible to change the Royal Decree more quickly, as a legal basis for that amendment needs to be awaited. This legal basis is included in the draft approved last week by the Council of Ministers and will be discussed in Parliament in the coming weeks. The legal process for the Royal Decree will be possible after approval and will be launched as soon as possible. De facto, the amendment of the Royal Decree is parallel, but from a legal point of view, the draft has to be approved and the Royal Decree can only be amended afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u16	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility that foreign nationals residing in our territory who are self-employed have some difficulty in completing their tax documents electronically, which is binding. Indeed, at a time when they are now required to file their VAT returns electronically, they cannot validate them using their Belgian resident card, which is equipped with the same chip as our identity cards. They must use paid commercial software to sign their declarations. Mr Minister, could you confirm this and provide me with the reasons for this obligation, which creates discrimination between Belgians and non-Belgian residents? What is the cost to the taxpayer of this obligation? Is there any plans to review this provision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u17	Mr Crusnière, with regard to access to the e-services of the Finance FPS, we use the means made available to us by the Strategy and Support FPS. Your question therefore falls more within the remit of the Minister responsible for the Digital Agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u18	Minister, thank you. I shall therefore question Mr. From Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u19	Minister, my question is about the condition of remuneration set out in the Income Tax Code. Following a reference for a preliminary ruling, the Court of Arbitration decided in a 2005 judgment that the remunerations taken into account to verify the minimum remuneration rule may be those withdrawn by a natural person being a director or manager exercising his or her mandate free of charge, but also receiving remuneration as a worker. In its current version, can Article 215 still be interpreted in the light of that judgment, so that a company whose management has a duty free of charge can take into account the remuneration which it allocates to that officer as a worker in order to verify the minimum remuneration condition? It seems that the answer is yes, since the law of 25 December 2017 only amended Article 215, paragraph 2, 4° with regard to the threshold of remuneration, by increasing it from 36 000 to 45 000 euros. The minimum remuneration rule has not been changed in principle or in its objectives. Consequentially, can Article 219 on the separate assessment be interpreted in the light of the judgment of the Court of Arbitration, insofar as that Article refers to the minimum amount of remuneration required? In other words, can a corporation whose officer exercises a free office take into account the remuneration that it allocates to that officer as a worker to verify whether or not the separate assessment is being applied? Finally, in the above-mentioned cases in which the head of the company exercises a free mandate and a function as a salaried worker, the remuneration resulting from the latter is not imposed as a remuneration as head of the company but as a remuneration as a salaried worker, provided that any rent paid by the company is not taken into consideration for the requalification of the remuneration. Do you share this view?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u20	Mr Piedboeuf, I can confirm that a company which allocates compensation as an employee to an officer exercising a free office can take this remuneration into account for the purposes of corporate tax and the separate assessment resulting from the reform law. The above-mentioned assessment of the minimum remuneration requirement does not affect the principle of attraction applicable to the taxation of natural persons (IPPs) in respect of the remuneration of directors of undertakings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u21	I am very pleased with that answer, Minister. This clarifies a situation that many were hesitant about. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u22	Minister, this is a reminder of a written question tabled in October 2016 for which I have not yet had an answer. I wanted to know if the minister could speed things up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u23	Mr Piedboeuf, my answer is two parts. First, with regard to the taxation of natural persons, the income of an artist creating works of art, when considered to be a professional, is profits which are taxable only for the year in which they are collected. As a matter of principle, the transaction consisting of the artist offering, on an exceptional basis, without direct or indirect consideration, one of his works to a charitable association is therefore without impact on the profits recorded by the artist during the taxable period concerned. On the other hand, liberalities in the form of works of art can be taken into account for a federal tax reduction. To this end, two conditions must be met. First, grants must be made to State museums or, subject to conditions of affection to their museums, to the Communities and Regions, provinces, municipalities and public welfare centres. Second, the Minister of Finance decides that the works of art given belong to the country's cultural heritage or have an international reputation. It takes its decision after a binding opinion of a special commission composed of representatives of the FPS Finances, Communities, Regions and Federal Museums. The opinion also deals with the admissibility and pecuniary value of liberality. The tax reduction is equal to 45% of the benefits paid. The total amount of benefits for which a tax reduction is granted is limited by taxable period to 10% of all net income, excluding income taxed in accordance with Article 171 of the Income Tax Code 1992 and not exceeding EUR 376,350. With regard to VAT, artists, sculptors, engravers and ceramists, whether professional or amateur, are subject to VAT as soon as they usually sell works they have created, even if these sales take place at irregular intervals. In accordance with the VAT code, the collection by an artist of a work of his stock for free transmission to a charitable association is treated as a delivery made for consideration where the components of the work have been entitled to a full or partial deduction of the tax. The tax is then payable on a basis of taxation which, under the abovementioned code, is constituted by the cost price determined at the time of the transaction. As far as the cost price of a work of art is concerned, and with regard essentially to correcting previous deductions, however, the value of the artist's performance relating to the design of the work should not be taken into account. On the other hand, in cases where no tax could be deducted on the acquisition of the goods and services used to design the work of art, the donation of this work to a charitable association has no VAT implications. This may be the case, first, if the artist knew in advance that the goods and services received would be used to design the work object of this gift and, second, if the artist is subject to the tax-free regime provided for in Article 56bis of the VAT Code, which prohibits any right to deduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u24	Minister, I did well to wait because the answer is quite satisfactory. I think it will please many people and, in any case, it will shed light on a whole series of practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u25	Mr President, Minister, this is a question of clarification. The good news is that people will know where they stand to make a correct report. The corporate tax reform has led to an adjustment of the DBI system and the exemption of share capital gains. With this question I would like to dwell on what these changes entail for the tax treatment of the return that company investors obtain on their investment in a DBI investment company, and in particular on the breakdown between good and bad income to be made in this context. The changes result in the tax treatment of the company-investor in a DBl-bevek becoming equal, regardless of the way in which it collects the return generated by the DBl-bevek. The dividends paid by the bevek and the capital gains realised on the shares of the bevek are now exempt from corporation tax, to the extent that the return of the DBI bevek comes from good shares, within the meaning of the DBI scheme, i.e. met the valuation condition and so on. The rules entered into force on 1 January 2018. However, the question is what will happen when an FDI bevek pays dividends that relate to capital gains before that date, without complying with the maintenance period of one year at that time and thus constitute bad shares. The law doesn't clarify this. In this respect, it is argued in practice that it should be justified to consider the situation from the investor's point of view and not from the point of view of the DBI bevek. From that perspective, there could be two situations, which I would like to put to the Minister. First, a situation in which company investors receive a dividend per calendar year for accounting purposes and during the financial year 2018. They can then normally rely on the new rules. The assessment of whether the capital gains are good or bad must then be made at the time of the taxable event, in particular the granting of a dividend by the DBI bevek. Secondly, a situation in which company investors operate with broken financial years. There, dividends received may still be subject to the old rules in 2018. Suppose a DBI-bevek pays dividends in June 2018 and closes the company's financial year on 30 September. Then those revenues are necessarily still linked to the 2018 tax year, which means that the retention period will still apply as a condition. I'll come to my questions. Mr Minister, can you clarify what will happen in a situation where dividends will be paid after 2018, but which relate to capital gains achieved before that date, without respecting the one-year retention period? Is it correct, in your opinion, to say that it must then be viewed from the investor's point of view? Perhaps you could comment on the examples I have mentioned? What tax treatment will they enjoy? Or do you think that the situation should be considered from the point of view of the DBI bevek? What are the consequences of this? In my view, these are very important questions about who should indicate what and how, and how, this is then assessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u26	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, the dividends paid by the so-called DBI bevek are only eligible for the DBI deduction to the extent and to the extent that the income obtained by that scheme comes from 'good' dividends and from 'good' capital gains on shares eligible for exemption. The qualifying as good or bad capital gains on shares is established at the time those capital gains are realised. It is at that time that the legal provisions in force must be used to determine whether or not the capital gains are eligible for an exemption. Therefore, the part of the dividend paid by an FDI bevek after 1 January 2018 resulting from an added value on shares that is not eligible for an exemption at the time of completion does not qualify for this FDI deduction. I believe that this is the best way of achieving the same tax treatment for company investors in an FDI bank, which was also the aim of the corporate tax reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for this clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 25955 question is converted into a written question;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u29	Minister, frontier workers are again on the agenda. This is specifically about the benefit of childcare. Parents may receive a tax reduction for child care for children under 12 years of age. This tax reduction amounts to 45% of expenditure actually incurred. In the case of a common tax assessment, the tax relief is distributed proportionally between the two partners' income. This rotation is automatic. In this context, account is taken of the worldwide income of the person and thus of income exempted by the Treaty, which may in certain cases lead to unpleasant surprises. Suppose a married couple paid €1,000 for child care in year X. The tax relief will then be equal to 225 euros, in particular 1 000 x 45%, divided by 2. That amount will then be paid to each partner. If one of the partners is a frontier worker in France, then the part of the tax relief for that spouse will be lost, in this example EUR 225, because according to the tax authorities there is no federal and regional tax to be paid and therefore no reduction is possible. This is unfair to other residents who are faced with equal childcare costs and who are able to deduct the full 45%. After all, they have no income exempt by treaty and they are not in the situation of actual cohabitation, which allows them to choose where the tax reduction is best charged. In this context, I would also refer to a very important reference, which sets the tone for many fiscal and political concerns: the Imfeld and Garcet judgments and, by extension, the case law of the European Court of Justice, which, while referring to a married couple, lost its rights to an increase in the duty-free sum because the person worked with the highest taxable income abroad. Minister, are you aware of the problem in which the tax relief for childcare is partly lost because of the automatic division into married couples, where one of the taxpayers obtains income from abroad which is exempt by treaty? If so, have you already instructed your administration to investigate this? Can you clarify whether, in your view, this situation discriminates against married and legally cohabitants in relation to actual cohabitants, because the first group of persons is confronted with an automatic division, while the second group has the free choice? This seems to me to be a discrimination. Do you consider that the judgment in Imfeld and Garcet can be applied by analogy in the situation where a tax reduction is automatically redistributed and where one of the taxable persons loses his or her reduction as a result of foreign exempt income? If so, are you prepared to take the necessary administrative and legislative measures? If not, what is your motivation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u30	Mr Deseyn, I am aware of the problem you mentioned, in which part of the tax relief for childcare provision for jointly taxed spouses and legally resident persons does not have an effect if one of them has only exempted foreign income. I believe that the difference in treatment between married and legally cohabiting taxpayers, on the one hand, and actual cohabitants, on the other, does not constitute discrimination. Married and legally cohabitants, on the one hand, and actually cohabitants, on the other hand, constitute two separate categories of taxable persons for which the legislator has deliberately allowed the tax rules to differ in a number of respects on the basis of the objective criterion of their legal status, which varies according to whether they are married, to make a declaration of legal cohabitation or not. In its judgment of 12 December 2013 on Imfeld and Garcet, the European Court of Justice held that the method of charging the allowance on the duty-free allowance for dependent children, which was granted entirely to the spouse with the highest taxable income, is contrary to Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. On the other hand, the Court did not rule on the method of charging the tax relief for childcare. This reduction is also charged in a different way, namely in relation to each spouse's jointly taxable income in relation to the sum of their jointly taxable income. No administrative or legislative measures are currently being considered in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is interesting in that sense that we are not yet on the same page and there is still much to be done to make possible political choices in the future in the event of a legislative change if this is not entirely in line with the case law. They are two separate categories of taxpayers, but it really is a political-philosophical question. Together setting up a household, independently of the civil construction behind it, doesn't that require more commitment? The tax legislator actually shows a certain indifference there if one were to put it negative. On the other hand, it could also be said that positive engagement is de facto standard, if default tax is to be taken into account. We are full of discussions about matrimonial property law. In that sense, your answer is interesting, in the light of that overall discussion. It shows that marriage has advantages and disadvantages. This can be qualified under the disadvantages section. I remember the campaign'stop the tax discrimination against married people' which we had in our early years of opposition. As far as we are concerned, family policy certainly deserves further study. Maybe we can table a bill, but that'll be our responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u32	As Mr Bogaert is not present, his question No. 25976.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u33	In Belgium, Minister, arrears of remuneration and pensions are taxed separately at the average rate of taxation for the whole of the taxable income of the last year in which the taxpayer had a normal professional activity. The tax administration stated in its administrative comments that, during the last year in which the taxable person had a normal professional activity, it understood the most recent year in which the person concerned had 12 months of taxable professional income of any kind. "Of whatever nature" implies a normal occupational income, a replacement income or a pension. Following the case-law of the Court of Cassation of 12 June 1992 and 14 March 2013, the tax administration stated in its circular of 13 November 2013 that the law should henceforth be strictly applied and that the reference year designated by law, in particular the year in which the taxable person had a normal professional activity, is only taken into account. The circular therefore removes the relevant provisions of the administrative commentary with the more flexible interpretation. The new position is justifiable for late payment of remuneration, but for late payment of pensions, the strict application of the circular of 13 November 2013 has very unfair and illogical consequences. In addition, more and more cases have been reported to me by taxpayers who are affected by this. Let me give you an example. A taxpayer has worked until the end of 2013 and retires in 2014. In 2016, he receives a regularisation of the pension he received during the previous years, as a result of a recalculation. In 2016, therefore, he receives a late pension which is taxed at the average rate of the 2013 income year, the last year of his professional activity. That average rate is well higher than the tax rate of the previous years, i.e. the years in which he received the pension the amount of which is now regularised. In such a case, the late payment has nothing to do with previous remuneration. It is therefore completely illogical to use the last year of his professional activity as a reference year for the taxation of the late retirement pension. I would like to ask you the following question, Mr Minister, pending the examination of the legislative proposal that I have tabled in this area. Is there no possibility, given the very unfair effects of the circular of 13 November 2014, to revise it with regard to late-paid pensions, so that the circular is no longer applicable and should no longer be strictly taken back to the last year of normal professional activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u34	Mr Van Biesen, the situation you mentioned is regulated administratively in No. 171/329 of the comments on the WIB 92. It should be noted that, in the case of late pensions, the reference year should not necessarily be the last year of the actual exercise of professional activity. In the case of pensioners who have ceased any activity, the reference year may be the most recent previous year preceding the year of payment of late pensions and during which the persons concerned have obtained a taxable normal retirement or survivor's pension for 12 months. The circular to which you refer did not remove that provision. Consequently, that provision still applies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u35	Minister, that is the opposite of what the administration sometimes applies. That's the problem. According to the circulars one should take the last pension, but in these cases the professional activity is taken up. It is a problem which not only I have already pointed out, because in all courtesy I would also like to say that Mrs Wouters has repeatedly referred to it and has also tabled a legislative proposal, which I have now improved in the Chamber. I hope it can be modified. I am very pleased with the position you are taking here today. I hope you will inform your administration of this unfair treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u36	I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dispa has converted 25988 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u38	Mr Klaps, you have a question about Imfeld and Garcet. I don't know who that is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u39	Mr President, my question is indeed about Imfeld and Garcet, and that is not Statler and Waldorf. Mr Minister, married people living in Belgium, one of whom works abroad, had until recently had a problem in making full use of the tax-free allowances for dependent children. In concrete terms, the problem arose when the income of the partner who worked abroad was the highest income. The government has solved the problem, known as Imfeld and Garcet, by charging the children of the person with the lowest income. To that end, Article 134 (4) of the WIB 92 was supplemented by a third paragraph. In addition to simulations of software developer Kluwer, Jef Wellens, the fiscalist at Kluwer, noted that married couples, neither of whom work abroad, may now pay more taxes, because the solution mentioned earlier is also being applied to them. I have the following questions, which were also raised this morning. Is it true that the solution is generally applied to frontier workers and not only to married persons whose work is abroad? Is the problem known to you that some couples, none of whom work abroad, will now pay more taxes than without the application of this article? What will you do about it if it happens?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u40	Mr President, Minister, a Belgian couple sets the tone. I'd like to report it. Mr Imfeld and Mrs Garcet both live in Liège. Mr Imfeld is German and Mrs Garcet is Belgian. At the end of 2017, we amended the law in the sense that from now on the administration would make two calculations in case one of the taxpayers has an income that is exempt by treaty. The method of calculation was initiated when raising the amount of tax-free allowances for dependent children. It was the intention of the legislator to resolve the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of Imfeld and Garcet, as well as the various judgments of the Constitutional Court in this matter. I now agree with Mr Klaps' question. Recently we were informed that the new method of calculation also affects married and legally resident persons in which neither spouse has an income from abroad. I refer to the work published by Mr Jef Wellens, the expert on personal taxation of Wolters Kluwer, on the problem. Some experts, Jef Wellens in particular, pointed out that the recent change was generally made and was not limited to taxable persons whose income was exempted by treaty. According to the calculations, this could lead to a tax increase of around EUR 1 000 for many taxpayers. If we look at the press, we are talking about tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands. I do not think this can be the intention or will of this coalition, especially when we want to make work pay. Can you confirm, Minister, that the new method of calculating the tax-free surcharges is generally applied and is therefore not limited to cases where one of the taxable persons receives an exempt income from abroad? If so, do you confirm Mr Wellens's thesis that this could lead to a tax increase of around EUR 1 000 for many taxpayers? In the affirmative, was this not the intention? I do not think so, and I hope that measures will be announced unless the analysis is incorrect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u41	Mr President, Minister, my question goes in the same direction. We have often debated the tax inequality between married and actually cohabiting frontier workers. I tabled a legislative proposal in this respect in 2010. In the end, I was very satisfied that steps were finally taken last year and that a legislative amendment was being made. I was satisfied with the text adopted at first reading because my proposal went in the direction of the free choice for the person who would take the children into account. But then you came up with the amendment of the law aimed at the tax authorities themselves making the calculation. It turned out, however, that this new method of calculation, whereby the administration itself grants the tax relief in the most advantageous way, did not always lead to the desired result. After all, the problem is still that, on the basis of the tax state, one is considering whether the new system is more advantageous rather than looking at the final balance. You also confirmed, on the question I asked in February, that it would not always be more advantageous at the level of the tax state and that it would be investigated, although it might not necessarily be more advantageous at the level of the final balance. I also announced at the time that I would return my proposal with an amendment to a subsequent draft law containing various provisions, which I did this afternoon. Now it appears that it does not apply only to persons with a foreign income. This was heard from a number of accountants who happen to be using Kluwer's software and who may have ended up with Mr Jef Wellens in that way. Apparently, the law amendment has a greater effect than previously thought. Is it true that the calculation is applied to all married and legally cohabiting couples with dependent children, even if they do not receive foreign exempt income? When this was done in Tax-on-web, another result emerged. There is therefore a difference in the function of the software used to calculate it. Is it true that Tax-on-web does not carry out the calculations correctly? The question then arises as to the simplified declarations that have been sent and where a proposal is made to the taxpayer? What method of calculation has been used there? Could it also be that these people get another nice gift when the final ink is coming up? I have noticed this morning that there is no desire to accept the proposal and the amendments I have tabled in the past. Then I wonder which slope you want to follow, whether you will come up with a legislative amendment yourself and whether this will happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u42	Mr President, the Law of 25 December 2017 has indeed extended the solution to the loss of the tax advantage for jointly taxed spouses whose income is exempt by treaty from the income of the spouse with the highest taxable income to all taxpayers who are taxed together. This change of law applies from the year 2018 onwards. We were also informed by Wolters Kluwer that this solution leads to undesirable effects, which would require a number of specific taxpayers to pay more tax than before. Since this was not and is not the intention of the government, I have asked my administration to prepare a draft law to undo this undesirable effect from the same year of attack 2018. In order to avoid that, pending the legislative amendment, attacks in which that undesirable effect would be applied would be established, I have also clearly instructed my administration to take explicit account of the intended correction in the establishment of the attacks for the 2018 tax year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for this very clear answer. I'm sure those involved will be very pleased.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u44	Mr. Deseyn, are you happy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u45	Mr President, it is acknowledged that there is a problem, and there will be a draft. That's good. It would have been better if that had been foreseen, but that is our collective responsibility. After all, we approved it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u46	And you, Mrs. Wouters, are you happy too?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u47	I am not immediately pleased, Mr President, in the sense that the Minister is announcing a draft law, but the question is what direction that will take. Mr Minister, are we going to continue to work with an intermediate tax state or are we really going to look at the final balance? After all, it is often an excuse that the sixth state reform should lead to a halt in the assessment of the intermediate tax state, which is nowhere in the law but nowhere in the law. Conversely, of course, we can see that the tax authorities will continue to look at when it suits them, for example in the case of housing deductions. It is then examined whether a deduction is possible at Flemish level and it is reviewed at federal level. I would therefore like to know which direction the draft law will take. You did not answer the question whether Tax-on-web used a wrong calculation for the simplified declaration. I suppose so. I just want to say that if that's true, the government is seriously playing with fire here. If a calculation of Tax-on-web that is made available to the citizen does not apply the correct calculation rules, then I find that very dangerous. I therefore hope that the text will be adopted as soon as possible. That is why I have already asked this morning to amend the text of the law on various provisions to that effect, so that we can be sure that this will be implemented as soon as possible, even before the recess. A second reading has been requested. Perhaps you can amend the text if it is discussed at second reading next week. Then we know for sure that this will be dealt with in full before the recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u48	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, section 90 of the Act of 25 December 2017 reforming corporate tax sets, for the 2018 calendar year, 4% of the arrears interest due in respect of debtors and 2% of the moratorium interest due in respect of the Head of State, which is generated not only by corporate tax, but also by all income taxes. By definition, moratorium interests weigh on the state budget. Thus, according to the commentary to the articles of the law, the amount of interest on late payment received by the State less the moratorium interest paid by the State for the direct tax category for 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively, was 110,780,000 euros, 20,782,000 euros and 191,721,000 euros, in negative, which means that the State paid for these three years far more interest than it received for direct taxes. One may wonder that these high amounts, which weigh on the state budget, are not linked to some form of speculation by some taxpayers, to the detriment of public finances, since the interest moratorium offers an interesting rate. It is also to be hoped that the changes introduced will prevent this speculation and reduce the cost to the State, even though the 2% interest rate of moratoriums set by law remains significant in the light of the interest rates now proposed by the banks. Minister, first of all, can you tell me, for the last five years, including 2017 which was obviously not mentioned in the commentary to the articles of the reform law, the interest on late payment by the State and the interest on moratoriums paid by the State, respectively for personal tax (PPI) and corporate tax (SOC)? I accept a painting. Secondly, to what extent do you feel that the negative interest differential of the State is the result of speculation by taxpayers who would like to benefit from a comfortable moratorium interest, or in any case higher than that proposed by the banks, on their advance payments? Third, with respect to 2017, did the FPS Finances see an increase in excess payments made by taxpayers, and thus in the moratorium interest paid by the government, prior to the amendment of the law? Fourthly, as far as 2018 is concerned, does the Finance FPS have any indicators on the impact of advance payments to the SOC – which is known to have been significantly increased – on the moratorium interest that will be owed by the Belgian State to certain taxpayers? Fifthly, should the cost to public finances of these moratoria remain high, would it not be appropriate to limit further the moratorium interest, for example by limiting per taxpayer the amount on which moratorium interest could be claimed and thus due by the State? Sixthly, with regard to the procedure of appeal to the Constitutional Court against the provision of the law under reference concerning moratorium interests (Articles 414 and 418 of the Income Tax Code), can you tell us which taxpayer has filed it, what is the timetable announced by the Constitutional Court for its treatment and what are the main arguments used by the Belgian State to defend the reform voted by Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u49	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, I will respond to the six points you raised. For items one and three, my administration is currently validating the amounts you are requesting in order to provide them as soon as possible. For your second point, it is very difficult to judge the reason for the taxpayer's move to payment of disputed taxes. Indeed, several reasons may play a role, but it is not possible for the FPS Finance to determine to what extent the reason cited influences the results. With regard to points four and five, the repayment of advance payments to ISOC, like any other income tax, does not systematically give rise to the payment of interest moratoriums in the Head of State. Moreover, since the reform of interest on income taxes entered into force at the beginning of this year, the provisions of the Income Tax Code 1992 provide for an additional condition for the payment of interest moratoriums in the head of State, which is evidenced by the sending of a notice of formal notice after the expiry of the repayment periods and provided that the administration has all the data necessary to liquidate the refund. In other words, the moratorium interest is not due for the entire period when the administration was unable to liquidate the payment. It is therefore very likely that there will be a reduction in the moratorium interest due in respect of the repayment of advance payments. Since the subject matter had recently been reformed by the ISOC Reform Act and since an appeal against articles 77 and 79 of the Act of 25 December 2017 was currently pending before the Constitutional Court, no further amendments had been envisaged in order to reduce the moratorium interest owed to the Head of State. The impact of the reform already adopted should be assessed in advance. With regard to the sixth point, in two proceedings, the Constitutional Court was asked to annul the changes made to articles 414 and 418 of the Income Tax Code 1992. The first action was brought by Mr Michel Maus. Le deuxième par la VZW Association of accountants, company auditors, tax consultants, accountants and fiscalists (Mrs Johan Van Haeverbeke, José Houstraete and Jacques Hellin). The Constitutional Court will deal with cases together. At this stage, the submissions were exchanged. The Constitutional Court will then set the date on which the case will be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u50	Minister, your answer is minimal. The important thing is to know all amounts, including past amounts. If in December you were able to provide me with the amounts for 2014, 2015 and 2016, I do not understand how your administration would be unable to do so for 2017 and previous years. Your services are sometimes effective. If I can get a quick response, I would be happy. As to the assumptions that ultimately the State pays more interest than it receives, the speculation hypothesis was explicitly included in the explanatory memorandum and commentary to the articles of the Corporate Tax Reform Act. Suddenly it's no longer a hypothesis for you! We really need to pay attention to evolution. Of course, the rate of interest moratoriums has been reduced and an additional condition has been added, but the volume of advance payment is clearly much larger. It is one of the strategies used by the government to try to improve at least facialally, and not structurally, in our view, the situation and the collection of taxes in our country. That is why I am asking to receive this information as quickly and transparently as possible, which will enable us to assess the law. As for the current procedure, I hope that you and the Belgian State will make every effort to defend a provision of the law that we have voted for, which we can support, even if it may require further adjustments in the sense of what has already been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u51	Minister, the negotiations with the Netherlands on a new double taxation treaty are entering a sixth round. According to the OECD model, the taxing power over employees' pensions is granted to the State of residence. The Netherlands deviates from this. The starting point of the Dutch Treaty policy is a full source state tax on employee pensions and annuities. A double tax treaty with the Netherlands usually leads to a compromise and therefore also leads to disputes. For example, at the end of 2017, the Netherlands unilaterally took the initiative to tax supplementary pensions of approximately 1 500 frontier workers living in Belgium. After consulting the Dutch Secretary of State for Finance, you were able to defuse that file. About 67 000 pensioners live in Belgium with Dutch pensions. On the other hand, around 22 500 pensioners live in the Netherlands with Belgian pensions. For the Netherlands, it is budgetaryly interesting to have the source state tax the pensions. However, it will be less interesting if social contributions are also taken into account. A tax on wages or pensions and social contributions or contributions by the same State leads to the least complex charge. The double taxation treaties and Regulation No. 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems is not always in line with each other, leading to border pain. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. What is the link between the Belgian negotiators on the power of taxation of employees' pensions and annuities: the State of residence or the source state? Will the negotiations with the Netherlands on a new double taxation treaty take account of the power to levy social security contributions? Are the negotiators seeking to ensure that taxation and social contributions are levied as far as possible by the same state? In the context of the negotiations on the new double taxation treaty with the Netherlands, is a mutual agreement on social contributions or contribution tax negotiated where necessary in order to achieve a tax by the same State? The Coordination Regulation No. 884/2004 allows a certain space.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u52	Mr Klaps, in the Belgian model treaty, the source state is taken as the starting point for granting the taxing power over employee pensions and annuities. Belgium is indeed aware of the fact that, in the relationship with the Netherlands, a possible transition from a state-of-the-art tax to a withholding tax indeed has a significant budgetary impact. This is clearly taken into account in the discussions and negotiations. In principle, Belgium is in favour of joining as closely as possible the OECD Model Convention and the Belgian Model Convention. The negotiators are currently studying all possible avenues for the taxation of employee remuneration, remuneration of managers and, of course, pensions. The alignment with the social security contributions levy is also being examined in more detail at the moment. Such coordination is not evident, however, as it may lead to undesirable effects and even situations of abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u53	Minister, it is a very complicated matter. The more I read about it, the more complicated I find it. I look forward to the results of these negotiations. Clearly, there are no simple solutions. Wherever possible, I believe that we should seek as simple a solution as possible in order to avoid the number of cases of discussion. Account must also be taken of the large discrepancy between the number of Dutch people living in Belgium and the number of Flemings living in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u54	Mr Minister, in the context of the distributed valuation of realised gains, Article 47 (2) of the WIB 92 requires that the reinvestment takes place in good time in depreciable intangible or tangible fixed assets used in an EEA Member State for the exercise of the professional activity. The deadline for the re-investment shall in principle be three years, but may be extended to five years in accordance with Article 47 (4) of the WIB 92 if re-invested in a built property, a vessel or an aircraft. I'm sketching a situation. Suppose that a company subject to corporation tax, which obtains an added value on an asset eligible for spread valuation, acquires a building and establishes short-term usufructs against only periodic fees for the benefit of a third party on the said building. The use of usufruct does not meet the conditions of heading III. D Leasing and similar rights provided for in Article 95 (1) in order to ensure that the building's bare ownership, in accordance with the opinion 2015/5 of the Accounting Standards Commission, is permanently included among the tangible fixed assets and is further written off in accordance with an appropriate depreciation plan. The building is therefore a depreciable asset within the meaning of Article 47 (2) of the WIB 92. Can the taxable person concerned, if he voluntarily achieves an added value as a result of the disposal of tangible fixed assets, who for more than five years before their disposal had the nature of fixed assets and invested in a building on which some time later a usufruct is established, designate this building as a reinvestment asset for the purposes of Article 47, § 4 WIB 92? In other words, does the naked property written off by the bare owner qualify as a built property within the meaning of Article 47 (4) of the WIB 92 for which the extended reinvestment period applies? Please confirm that a company, subject to corporation tax, which establishes a usufruct on a property at regular intervals only which does not meet the conditions of heading III. D Leasing and similar rights provided for in Article 95 (1), the depreciable bare property of that property is permanently used for the exercise of the professional activity for the purposes of Article 47 of the WIB 92 and the establishment of the aforementioned usufruct is not to be regarded as an alienation of the acquired property? I come to my second question. In my introduction, I said that a "building property, a vessel or an aircraft" needed to be rebuilt. Article 1 (9) defines the concept of "building" or "part of a building" as any building permanently linked to the ground. It concerns not only classical buildings, but also infrastructure works and, more generally, all works permanently linked to the ground. That's what the circular number says. 24/2002 of 6 December 2002. Suppose that a company subject to corporation tax, which obtains an added value on an asset which is eligible for spread valuation, builds a sports establishment and then establishes a usufruct for the benefit of another company on the abovementioned sports establishment with the application of VAT, since the sports establishment, on the basis of Decision No. E.T.124,513 of 23 December 2013 qualifies for VAT purposes as a "building' within the meaning of Article 1, § 9, at periodic fees only. The usufruct does not meet the conditions of heading D, Leasing and similar rights, so that the naked ownership of the sports establishment, in accordance with the CBN recommendation 2015/5, is permanently included among the tangible fixed assets and is further written off by the bare owner. Mr. Minister, the sports establishment, which, pursuant to the abovementioned decision No. E.T.124,513 for VAT purposes qualifies as a building within the meaning of Article 1, § 9, on which a usufruct was established with the application of VAT under Article 44, § 3 in respect of the bare owner of the sports establishment, and which writes it off, as a built property within the meaning of Article 47, § 4 for which the extended five-year reinvestment period applies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u55	Mr Van Biesen, your two questions have the same finality. If I may, I would like to answer these questions in one way. In order to be able to answer the questions about the two cases mentioned by you effectively and clearly, all factual and legal information must be known. You have given a lot, but I think there are still a few missing to be able to cut short. I would like to suggest that you tell us what more we should know in concrete terms, so that after contact with the administration we can respond specifically to these two cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u56	Does it say what else you need in your answer or will you deliver it to me later?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u57	I have the general definition that we must know all factual and legal information, including the identity of the taxable person concerned and the full content of the relevant agreements. These are two things that we should know in order to be able to give a very concrete answer to your very specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u58	I'll get it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u59	We have no news from Mr Bogaert. His question No. 26102 is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u60	Minister, the ECB has decided to stop its bond purchases by the end of this year. This will put an end to its policy of stimulating the economy and increasing inflation. Since 2015, 2 400 billion fresh money has been pumped into the economy. Today 30 billion in government bonds are bought up every month. From October 2018 that amount will be halved to 15 billion. The purchase programme will be discontinued at the beginning of 2019. However, the European Central Bank will replace outstanding loans with new purchases, which in any case will not increase the total amount pumped into the economy. The European Central Bank wants to continue to give oxygen to the economy for a long time, by re-investing the proceeds of declining bonds in new paper. At the same time, the European Central Bank decided to maintain its interest rates at the current very low level at least until next summer. I think that is very important decisions by the European Central Bank. It is not an immediate stop but according to the newspapers it gradually shuts down the crane. The comments speak of a long way. A middle ground has been found between what the hawks and their opponents represent. Indeed, the ECB will replace declining loans with new purchases and the interest rate will also remain at a very low level, weakening the euro and allowing the bond markets to reverse losses in profit. In short, there are many aspects to this. It is clear that the decision will have important consequences for the Belgian economy in the next two years, both for investors, savers and borrowers, as well as for inflation and economic growth.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u61	Mr President, you have described the context widely, which will prevent me from doing so. The decision of the European Central Bank (ECB) to phase out its quantitative easing policy will have a clear influence on European and state economies, regardless of the quantitative easing. As ecologists, we would rather have wanted a qualitative easing with a more specific orientation of the European Central Bank's choice of investment, acquisition of shares and assets. Minister, can you tell me what your opinion is about this ECB announcement? What impact could this decision have on Belgium and in particular on its ability to refinance its debt at a good price, as we discussed last week with debt managers? What steps will be taken by the federal government to compensate for this ECB decision? In view of the need to finance the ecological transition of our economy, what are the initiatives favoured by the Federal Government at Belgian and European level? In the dialogue with the ECB, we demand a targeted investment policy where the Central Bank and the states could be actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u62	Last week's announcements by President Draghi were indeed both anointing and beating at the same time. The purchase will be reduced to zero in net terms, because they will renew the paper that comes to maturity. Therefore, there is still no question of a decrease in the ECB's balance sheet in the short term. At the same time, the forward guidance of the ECB states that our policy interest rate will remain at the current level until the end of 2018. The ECB's announcement last week will likely result in short-term interest rates remaining at more or less the same level as today, with a slight increase in long-term interest rates. Because the reference rates for the ECB are by definition short-term interest rates. A certain boom, a small increase in interest rates in the longer term, is to be expected. It is very difficult to assess the impact on the Belgian economy because, on the one hand, there is a tendency to say that a slight increase in interest rates will have an adverse effect on the economy, on spending and on loans; on the other hand, one of the reasons why the ECB is still holding this programme, which is less pronounced by Draghi, but I am convinced that this is also present is the fact that QE policy has a number of unintended consequences, unintented consequences. By placing so massive liquidity on the market, there is a possibility that soap bubbles may be created in all kinds of submarkets. That's negative for an economy. The bubbles are negative for the economy. Therefore, the risk on bubbles will certainly decrease, thanks to the ECB's decision. It is necessarily positive for the real economy, which interests us the most. The net effect of all these elements is very difficult to predict. My personal estimate is that this will be rather positive for the economy, depending on how the ECB has just brought about the change in its monetary system. Mr Gilkinet, on the energy transition, the federal government launched in February a green OLO, which was a great success: 4.5 billion euros. And we could have gotten a lot more. This was the second largest green bond in the world issued by a government. The Federal Debt Agency is currently participating in foreign forums to share its experience and also receives foreign delegations to this end. It also works with European bodies to standardise the tools used by the Agency for this important novelty in the financing of the State and the economy in general.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am also convinced that this will have a positive impact on the economy, but it is difficult to make a guess about this. Finally, we are talking about a monetary policy, which is part of a global policy. It is difficult to estimate what this will mean for growth. It is a good thing that this was set up a few years ago. There was a lot of skepticism about it. It is a good thing that the phasing-out takes place gradually, because otherwise it would create a negative shock effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u64	We will see what the effect will be. The effect of quantitative easing (QE) was notably the decrease in the cost of debt to the states, the interest rate for enterprises, a greater investment capacity, contrasted with a lower return on savings. The injection of money has been quite massive in the economy. That means massive injection, then cessation of this massive injection, even if it is progressive, also says a potentially important effect at macro-economic level. It is therefore necessary to be careful and to observe closely the reactions, in particular of the markets, on the subject. Perhaps I would be less optimistic than you and I would encourage the Minister and the National Bank to set up an observation body that would allow a rapid response as a state and at European level to undesirable effects of this choice. Making forecasts in the economic field is very difficult and sometimes falls within the domain of astrology. Green linear bonds (OLO) may be light green or dark green. I encourage you to put in place investment tools in the ecological transition of our economy. It must serve that purpose. Our economic ecology is a little fashionable, so much the better. But how do we use this reality? If you realize new OLOs and they aim to finance the search for the energy autonomy of our country without nuclear power plants, with the added value realized in Belgium to finance Saudi Arabia and its oil or Russia and its gas, we will encourage you in your business. If you do so to compensate for a state disinvestment in SNCB, it's green cabbage and cabbage green, but it's pale green. I like the bright green. The file is therefore to be followed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u65	Minister, the Corporate Tax Reform Act of 25 December 2017 amended section 194 quater of the Income Tax Code of 1992, so that "the investment reserve created on the expiry of a taxable period that ends no later than 30 December 2018, by companies that are referred to as SMEs, is not considered to be a profit within the limits and under the conditions set out in that section". This amendment comes into force on January 1, 2018 and applies from the 2019 taxation year, with respect to a taxable period that begins on or before January 1, 2018. Thus, the current "investment reserve" regime for SMEs is maintained (temporarily) only for investment reserves created at the end of a taxable period that ends no later than 30 December 2018. Subsequently, the above-mentioned Article is repealed (cf. Article 31, 2° of the Law of 25 December 2017 on the reform of corporate tax, in force on 1 January 2020 and applicable from the 2021 tax year relating to a taxable period which begins at the earliest on 1 January 2020). Is there or will there be an obligation to transfer the investment reserve into an income statement to make it taxable? How are things going to come up in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u66	Mr. Piedboeuf, I can once again confirm that a company that has formed an investment reserve during the 2018 tax year or prior fiscal years, in compliance with all the legal conditions imposed in this regard, may continue to benefit from the exemption as long as the condition of inviolability is met.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u67	Thank you, Minister. We are advancing the "tax science"!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u68	Mr President, Mr Minister, advances on group insurance contracts where the pledge of the contract can only be made to enable the worker to acquire, build, improve, repair or transform immovable property producing taxable income in a Member State and provided that the advances and loans are repaid as soon as the goods in question come out of the assets. If the taxpayer concerned has to use a mortgage credit or not to make such a repayment, can you confirm that the interest he pays then is deductible on the basis of Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Income Tax Code of 1992.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u69	Mr. Piedboeuf, a mortgage or non-mortgage loan made by a taxpayer, for the purpose of repaying an advance on a group insurance contract or a pledge of the contract when the real estate has been removed from its assets, is not a loan specifically made to acquire or retain real property whose income is included in its taxable income, so that the interest on that loan is not deductible from income tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u70	Mr President, the minister's answer is very clear and makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u71	Minister, the corporate tax reform in the "non-deductible fines" section is largely in contravention of the established and simple rule that the accessory follows the principal. That's the choice we made. Can you, Minister, provide a list of what remains deductible: parking fees and contractual allowances (which are not strictly fines), but what else, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u72	Mr Piedboeuf, in accordance with the law of 25 December 2017 on corporate tax reform, the scope of non-deductible fines has been expanded. All administrative fines imposed by public authorities are now non-deductible professional expenses even when their amount is calculated on the basis of an deductible tax. Therefore, I cannot make an inventory of the fines that would still be deductible. On the other hand, I can confirm the deductible nature of the two allowances that you refer to in your question, provided that the general conditions for deducting professional expenses are met. Such compensation is not considered fines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u73	It is therefore possible to continue to park badly, to receive fines and to deduct them. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u74	More or less.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u75	Mr President, Minister, this is a real problem that I raised a while ago. People are really waiting for something to happen. It concerns children with disabilities, who may be entitled to an increased family allowance, on the one hand, and could also be included in tax legislation in a special way, on the other. The principle is that the interpretation and definition of a child with disabilities are the same in child benefit legislation and in tax legislation. Yes, it was. It is at least 66% affected by inadequate or reduced physical or mental fitness. This definition came literally from the legislation on child benefit, but was changed some time ago. The administrative commentary on the 1992 Income Tax Code makes it very clear that the concept must be given the same meaning in personal taxation as in the legislation on family allowances, but this is not intended to be applied in practice. It follows the literal description of child benefit legislation as it was then and as it has now been formulated. The result is that it is a different regime and a different definition. In other words, in family allowances the same child counts, while in taxation there is a different definition. This is a problem because people think it's all the same. In fact, they are quite right, but in practice that does not appear to be the case. When I asked you the question earlier, you told me that you would investigate it. People have read this question and also seen that you were in favour of this question. However, if they go to the administration or the Ombudsman, they are told that there will be a solution, but that they do not yet want to apply it. That's why I have some questions about your commitment to this story. What is the state of affairs with regard to the investigation at the level of the administration? Is there a solution? Is there a timing foreseen? I do not know to what extent it is permissible for an ombudsman and the FPS to be involved, but it seems that there is a draft in the making. If that is the case, we would like to know. Here's what's even more important. Will you allow the necessary administrative tolerances for people who are now faced with this problem and who do comply with the new definition in child benefit legislation, but who do not comply with the old definition in taxation? Will you instruct your administration to give a more targeted interpretation of Article 135? If I understand correctly, it was also in the administrative commentary. This could be a solution for a limited group of people, but they do need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u76	Mr President, Mrs Becq, first of all, I can confirm that my administration has completed the investigation concerning the alignment of the tax definition of a disabled child with the definition of a disabled child in the legislation on child benefit. So that's round. Secondly, I have indeed given my services the explicit mandate to draw up a draft law on this matter. An adjustment will, of course, have an impact on the budget. That is what we will have to take with us over the next few weeks. In addition, any new regime should take into account the principle of constitutional equality at federal level, since fiscal competence in this area is federal. This means that the conditions applicable to family benefits cannot be taken over at Community level, given the possible differences between the Communities. That immediately gives the start to the third answer. Thirdly, as mentioned in the answer to your previous question, the principle of fiscal legality prevents the application of a tax exemption from being simply extended administratively. It is therefore not possible at the moment to answer that question. There has to be a legal amendment first.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic929x.u77	Minister, I believe that we have tabled a legislative proposal on this subject to look for a wording, but I forgot to look into it. As far as the rules on family allowances are concerned, there really is a problem, which I am regularly referred to. If you say that taxation follows the rules of child benefit, as defined, and does not adopt the same provision, then I think you have a way out, even if there would be changes to those rules based on medical science or others. I therefore ask that we proceed quickly. People are really waiting for it, because they find that there used to be a level playing field and no longer today, and that is a problem.
