ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u1	Colleagues, I suggest that we start with the questions, as there are not enough Members present for legislative work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u2	Mr. Chairman, the agenda was to begin with the bills. We are therefore changing the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u3	We are not in numbers, so we cannot start legislative work. I suggest that we start with the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u4	Mr President, I would remind you that the majority has imposed on us a vote on the urgency of the bills on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u5	We'll start with the questions. Questions No 26594 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée, No 26895 by Mrs Griet Smaers and No 26958 by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for waiting for us to enter the Chamber. So we can start with the oral questions. Mr Minister, my questions are about the UBO register and voting arrangements. In practice, there appear to be some confusion about the UBO. It concerns, inter alia, whether voting arrangements contained in the statutes of a company with legal personality, or in the statutes of a civil partnership, result in control of the company being exercised in any other way, as provided for in the second criterion, Article 4, 27°, second paragraph, (a) of the Act of 18 September 2017. Let me illustrate the issue by an example. The classification of shares into categories and the requirement of involvement of at least one of these categories for making a particular decision. Even simpler, the requirement of a certain majority of votes, different from the rules of the Company Code, for a decision to be taken. That was my first question. Secondly, in practice, there are doubts as to who is designated as UBO in the context of Belgian civil society. Article 1 (1) of the Company Code states: "A company shall be constituted by a contract under which two or more persons agree to bring something into the public for the purpose of carrying out one or more specified activities and for the purpose of providing the members with a direct or indirect capital advantage." Membership is a form of company with a civil or commercial purpose which does not have legal personality. In view of the fact that civil society does not have legal personality, the partnership does not have separate assets. The goods entered into civil society are therefore not considered to be the property of the partnership but, on the other hand, are part-owned by the various partners. Let me illustrate my question on the basis of an example. Civic partnership holds shares of an employed company or holding company. The sizes are each entitled to 20 %. Should all sizes that each are entitled to 20% be mentioned, even if the membership is represented by a third party? Should the representative of the partnership in that hypothesis also be considered UBO? I come to my next question. The reporting agents of the UBO must transmit the data provided for in Articles 3 and 4 of the Royal Decree. The directors, Article 14, 1° of the Corporate Code and Article 58, 11° of the non-profit-making law, or trustees/fiduciaires, Article 4 of the Royal Decree, will be entitled to do so. Will it be possible to exercise this power, in particular the specific registration of the necessary information in the UBO register, by proxy, as is also customary in the tax reporting practice, for example in the case of a company tax declaration by the company's accountant? Then I come to my next question. In the legal system, shares may belong to the marital community. The shares are then either fully common, or the split-up should be made between the membership rights held by only one spouse and the property value belonging to the marital community. Assume that 40% of the shares of a nv are fully common, i.e. both membership rights and property value belong to the marital community. Should both spouses be included as UBO because 40% of the shares of the nv in this example belong to the marital community? On the other hand, suppose that 40% of the shares of an bvba are split, the membership rights being owned by one spouse and the property value belonging to the marital community. Then who is considered UBO? Is that the spouse in whose name the shares in the shareholders' register are registered because the membership rights are his own? Or is it the community because the property value is common? I have one last question. I apologize for the technicality, but it's important that the UBO gets off to a good start. It is often the case that the right of ownership is held separately over shares of a company, for example, following a death or donation subject to usufruct. For example, the surviving spouse inherited the usufruct of 40% of the shares of a Belgian company. The two children each inherited 20% of the naked property. Typically, the right to vote rests with the fruit user. Who should be appointed as UBO in this situation? So far, my specific questions about the UBO register.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u7	Mr. Chairman, Minister, two concurrent information relating to the UBO registry raises questions. The first of these concerns the postponement of the entry into force. On the FPS Finance website, we read: "Although the entry into force of the Royal Decree is set for 31 October 2018, you have an extended deadline of 31 March 2019 to encode your beneficial owners for the first time." The second news relates to the fact that, according to the press, to take up the title of the newspaper L'Echo of 26 September 2018 "The wealthy families are trying to escape the register of the rich". According to this article, private bankers, lawyers, accountants and other advisors invite their clients concerned by UBO returns to make changes to their property structures in order to better conceal them. The link between this information can therefore be considered. Postponing the entry into force would then be a way of providing more time for those concerned to make such changes. Minister, are you aware of a movement of changes in heritage structures in response to the establishment of the UBO registry? If so, what changes are involved and what reaction are you considering, if any? For what reason(s) did you decide to postpone, from October 31, 2018 to March 31, 2019, the first encoding in the UBO register? Does a ministerial decree still have to be published on the UBO register? If so, when is this publication planned? Have you been under pressure with respect to the effective date or other aspects of the UBO registry? Can you provide me with a list of contacts – people directly involved, lobby groups, private bankers, lawyers, accountants, etc. – that you have had about the UBO register since the publication, in the Belgian Monitor of 14 August 2018, of the Royal Decree on the operating procedures of the UBO register? If this list is too long, you can obviously attach it as an annex.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u8	Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Biesen, the General Administration of the Treasury will draw up guidelines in which the specific situations mentioned will be clarified, I refer in particular to Mr Van Biesen's questionnaire. These guidelines will normally be available at the beginning of November, i.e. in a good month, and will be published on the website of the Treasury. Reporting agents may effectively mandate third parties to complete the information of their beneficial owners in their name and on their behalf. The procedure for this is mentioned in the FAQ on the website of the Treasury Administration. According to the press, some heritage societies have requested changes to their structure. These changes appear to relate to changes in the names of these companies. Indeed, many civil societies are formed under the surname of the persons who own it. Since access to the UBO register will also be open to the general public, some of these people do not want a search for a company to be made on the basis of their family name. The entry into force of the Royal Decree on the operating procedures of the UBO register is scheduled for 31 October 2018. Initially, the implementation of the application was scheduled to start at the end of June 2018 but, for reasons related to computer development, the administration had to post-launch on September 27, 2018. For this reason, the deadline for information providers to have completed the register with their beneficial owners has been postponed to 31 March 2019. In the Royal Decree of 30 July 2018, my services tried to be as complete as possible as possible with regard to the way in which the register in question operates. If, in practice, it turns out that a ministerial decree is necessary to complete the royal decree, my services will take care of it in due course. I have not been under any specific pressure both on the date of entry into force and on any other aspect of the UBO register. The UBO Registry Development Service met and consulted with all the relevant supervisory authorities whose exhaustive list is to be found in Article 85 of the Law of 18 September 2017 on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and on the restriction of the use of cash.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u9	Minister, it would be a good thing if those who draw up the new directives took account of the questions raised, so that we can answer the specific problems raised here. I look forward to the guidelines that will appear in November.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u10	Minister, thank you for this very clear answer. You haven't been under any pressure. The delay is solely due to computer problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u11	Minister, Article 56 of the Law of 2 August 2002 on Financial Supervision provides that the running costs of the FSMA are borne by the institutions under its authority. Since 1 January 2018, credit intermediaries and creditors have been subject to this annual contribution. These operating contributions cannot be paid on a pro rata basis, according to the FSMA. This means that intermediaries and intermediaries who have been forced to stop their activity must be obliged to pay this annual contribution, even if they stopped their activity on 1 May of this year, for example, and requested that the list be deleted from the FSMA. For many mediators and intermediaries faced with forced closure, for example because of restructuring, the prohibition of payment pro rata leads to additional costs which are a bitter pill for these people to swallow given the forced closure. Minister, can you clarify whether it is actually prohibited to pay the annual operating contribution to the FSMA pro rata? If so, what do you think is the legal basis of this ban? If payments are prohibited pro rata, do you not think that the law or implementing decisions provide for the possibility of payment facilities for subject institutions or undertakings facing exceptional circumstances? Are you willing to provide for such payment facilities or payments pro rata? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u12	Mr Van Peteghem, according to Article 56 of the Law of 2 August 2002 on the supervision of the financial sector and financial services, the operating costs of the FSMA are borne by the undertakings and persons under its supervision or whose operations or products are under its supervision, within the limits and according to the rules laid down by the King. That provision is implemented by the Royal Decree of 17 May 2012 on the remuneration of the operating costs of the FSMA. That KB determines all the conditions for the calculation and retrieval of the contribution. The basic modalities are the same for all companies and persons under the supervision of the FSMA. All undertakings and persons under the supervision of the FSMA shall pay a sectoral contribution in accordance with the provisions of the above mentioned KB. These are credit institutions, issuers and so on. This contribution shall consist of a predetermined percentage of the total budget of the FSMA for the year in question. That sectoral contribution shall be allocated to all enterprises and persons under the supervision of the FSMA on 1 January of the year, as specified in the mentioned KB. In other words, the calculation method provided for in KB excludes a pro-rata calculation. The legal procedure shall also ensure that the FSMA has at the beginning of each year of work the means necessary to carry out its supervisory tasks effectively. As the Royal Decree of 17 May 2012 instructs the FSMA to operate a closed sectoral contribution system, the application of pro-rata payments is not possible because it could lead to an under-financing of the FSMA. We would also like to refer to the fact that other independent public organisations, such as the BIPT and the CREG, also apply such a pro-rata system. Article 3 of the above-mentioned KB provides for a general payment period of one month for the payment of the amounts due. Upon expiry of this period, the FSMA shall send a payment reminder. In particular, for intermediaries, the applicable legislation provides that the FSMA is to allow or permit an effective final formal period of 30 days. Only then will the registration lapse. It follows that the possible loss of registration does not occur immediately. De facto, therefore, an intermediary always has at least 60 days to pay the payment. In 2018, an intermediary in consumer credit will pay a contribution of approximately 213 euros for the sector's annual supervision. Moreover, at the current state of the legislation, this payment is also tax deductible. Finally, the FSMA sends more than 20,000 calls for payment each year. The calculation and follow-up of this work is already quite labour-intensive. If different payment facilities were possible, the FSMA should provide additional resources for this. As the maximum number of employees of the FSMA is also laid down by law, this will have an impact on the resources that the FSMA can allocate to its main mission. That is, of course, monitoring.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that the FSMA must be financed and that the mode of action has been established, but I note that it was a bitter pill for mediators who were faced with restructuring. If they stopped in May, this means that they have to pay more than what is actually necessary. It concerns amounts of around EUR 1 200. For a small mediator, that is a considerable sum. I think it is appropriate to examine whether there are possibilities in the future that take account of the situation of the mediator. I understand the fact that the FSMA has to be paid, but I think it is possible to think about a method that takes account of cessations, whether or not they are compulsory under the influence of restructuring. We must be able to understand the situation in which these people are living.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u14	Questions Nos 27057 and 27068 by Mr Roel Deseyn have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u15	Mr President, I do not believe in delay, I am simply going for a quick result. Mr Minister, what we call the corporate tax is called the wage tax in the Netherlands. The calculation of this wage charge also takes into account, in principle, what we know as a duty-free sum. In other words, there is a certain reduction in that wage tax, the so-called wage tax rebate. For example, less tax should be levied on the employee's remuneration. Information that was provided to me shows that Belgian residents who work in the Netherlands and are therefore subject to that wage tax will suddenly receive much less wage tax discount from 1 January 2019. In other words, their remuneration will suddenly be subject to more tax than has been the case so far, even if they are entitled to that reduction under the double taxation agreement with the Netherlands. The result of this new scheme is that Belgian residents have to apply to the Dutch tax authorities for a monthly refund of this amount or ask for the amount of that discount via the Dutch tax return. In both cases, in other words, they need to take additional action simply to get what they are entitled to and what they have obtained so far automatically. Mr Minister, is this change concerning the wage tax rebate for Belgian residents known to you? Has the Netherlands consulted with Belgium on this matter in advance? If not, can and will you appeal to your Dutch colleague from Finance to reconsider this measure and possibly withdraw it, so that Belgian residents working in the Netherlands will not be disadvantaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u16	I am currently not aware of the problems you have raised. In the meantime, I have instructed the administration to inform the Dutch administration of the exact reason for this new approach of the Dutch tax authorities. Afterwards, if necessary, we can recommend a relaxation for Belgian residents who are employed in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u17	Thank you for your answer. I'm glad to be able to tell you something new. Indeed, it will only start from 1 January 2019, but there is some concern for many frontier workers because of the administration they would be dealing with. It would be a good thing if we could defuse this before New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u18	At the request of the Conference of Presidents, a discussion by Mr Van der Maelen was added to the agenda of our committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u19	I think, Minister, that I should like to say that the situation with regard to energy poverty in Belgium is worrying. In 2016, there was an increase of 25% in electricity consumers who requested a payment plan. For 2017, there will be 19.5 %. So we are seeing an alarming increase in those who have energy poverty problems. Very often, the assumption is that overall poverty rates and energy poverty rates are targeting the same groups of people. This is true for only 60%. The worrying thing is that 40% of those asking for such payment plans, according to official statistics, do not fall under the overall poverty line, but are what is called purely energy-poor. This is about single people, especially single-parent families and older people, in whom it is clear that they already have a major problem. As if the problem is not yet big enough, an increase in prices is expected this winter due to the undersecurity of energy supply. Yesterday in the Committee on Industry, Research and Technology, we were shown figures which indicate that, because of the uncertainty but also because of the increase in the prices of lignite and petroleum, energy prices will continue to rise sharply. I have tabled this argument, Minister, to make a plea which I have already made in the past. In the past, I have said that energy is not a luxury product to which 21 % VAT can be levied. I believe that levying 21 percent on energy is now totally inappropriate. I call for a reduction in VAT to 6%. A short calculation shows that with such a reduction each Flemish family could immediately save almost 120 euros on its energy bill. The reason why I repeat that question was the likely price increase, but there was also a hopeful signal. The Minister for Energy, Mrs Marghem, said in the Committee on Business that she herself was in favour of a reduction in VAT. For the sake of fairness, I would add that she has said that she is quite alone in the government. She has also said, Minister, that you are one of the major opponents of this reduction. In any case, I note that the sp.a. and Mrs Marghem are fighting the same battle. This does not happen very often, but one member of the government is already prepared to follow the sp.a's proposal. I would like to ask you this: Minister, do you think that a reduction in VAT to 6% is appropriate? Does the government intend to carry out that reduction to 6%?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u20	I think the last question was a question in two stages. I'm gonna get a few things straight. Firstly, the price increases we are seeing now have nothing to do with VAT. They have everything to do with the evolution of international prices, the consequences of the commitments on climate objectives and, of course, the legacy of what I would describe as the Belgian energy dossier. The reduction of VAT on electricity implemented at the end of 2013 was clearly a temporary measure. On 1 April 2013, the decision was taken, probably just before the elections at the time, and it ran until the end of December 2015. Afterwards, there has been little discussion about the fact that it was actually some sort of disguised index jump. Some economists have called it an incognito index jump, because it was precisely because of this reduction that an index jump could be achieved during that period. This government has also achieved an index jump. There is no doubt about that. But at least we have had the courage to call it an effective index jump. Moreover, we have also provided a form of social correction through a higher welfare envelope and the raising of social benefits. As far as purchasing power is concerned, I take note of the figures you give about the difference between energy poverty and overall poverty. That seems a difficult distinction to make, by the way. For this year, the Planning Office calculates an increase in real purchasing power, following inflation and tax increases, by 1.8 %. This is in addition to the increases in real purchasing power that have already taken place in recent years. Finally, I have three other comments to make. Firstly, what you are proposing is an intervention with significant budgetary implications. I therefore think it would be useful or desirable to clarify how these budgetary consequences are to be met with regard to the impact on the final budget balance. Secondly, I cannot ignore the fact that there is an inconsistency in your argument, because I hear from your and other parties, or at least I have heard an argument for a shift from taxes on labour to green taxes. In my view, the reduction of VAT on electricity is heading in the opposite direction, which is driving the greening aspect of taxes, which may or may not encourage energy consumption. Thirdly, it is often referred to that the lower rate of VAT on electricity still applies in other European countries, which is true, but out of the twenty-eight Member States, or twenty-seven, if you like, only four apply the rate of VAT of 6%. My answer is at least clear: at the moment, even though discussions within the government can always get their own momentum, I am not in favour of following your suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which does not surprise me. We can argue about the past, but I am trying to look at today and the unfortunately worrying development for the future. The private consumer in Belgium must pay a rate that, if not the highest, is among the three highest in the European Union, even before the expected price increases. I do not agree with the argument that a reduction in the electricity bill for an average Flemish family with, according to our calculation, about EUR 120 by means of a VAT reduction would result in a waste of energy. I think that the prices in Belgium, even with a reduction of 6%, are so dissuading that the effect you have outlined will not occur. Secondly, you say that this government has increased purchasing power by 1.8 percent on average. We can have a long discussion about it, which you have already had with my colleagues. On the one hand, a number of measures are being sold as measures to increase purchasing power. On the other hand, the rates of invoices and accounts are increased, such as the electricity bill, which is almost passed on to a second tax invoice. Averages, Minister, do not say everything. In 2016, there was an increase of 25% in people using payment plans. In 2017, there was another almost 20%. These are signals that a government, if it has a social heart, should take to heart. If the electricity bill were to be reduced by 6%, the remainder of the private consumer would still be at the highest in Europe. The social problems are so great that we believe that action should be taken. This brings me to a third element of response. If you like, we can have a whole discussion about where we could compensate for the costs. Excuse me, but I wouldn't buy those fighter planes, for example. Then there is no problem in taking this kind of social measures. Other colleagues of mine, who are more preoccupied in this area, could make other proposals, but if you ask me, do not buy those fighter planes and lower the VAT to 6%.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u22	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and the answer of the Minister for Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud, - having regard to the sharp increase in energy poverty in recent years, the number of families with a pay-off plan for their energy bill in Flanders after an increase of 25% in 2016 increased from almost 20% to more than 97 000 households in the meantime; - in view of the possible additional price increases resulting from uncertainty about energy supply, - having regard to the fact that electricity is a basic product and not a luxury product, which makes the current rate of 21% inappropriate; - having regard to the fact that a VAT reduction for families would have an immediate effect of EUR 119.9 on their electricity bill, requests that VAT on electricity be reduced from 21% to 6% as soon as possible." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Dirk Van der Maelen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, ayant entendu l'interpellation de M. Dirk Van der Maelen and the response of the Minister of Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud, - in view of the sharp increase in energy insecurity in recent years, which led last year to an increase of almost 20% in the number of Flemish households with a clean-up plan for the settlement of their energy bills, whereas this number had already increased by 25% in 2016 and is now more than 97 000; - in view of the new potential price increases resulting from uncertainty in terms of energy supply; - the fact that electricity is an essential product, not a luxury product, and that the current rate of 21% is therefore completely inadequate; - in view of the immediate reduction of EUR 119,90 which would result in a reduction in VAT on household electricity bills; demands that the rate of VAT on electricity be reduced from 21 % to 6 %." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Johan Klaps and Mr Eric Van Rompuy. A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Johan Klaps et Eric Van Rompuy. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u23	Minister, you are committed to ensuring the budgetary neutrality of corporate tax reform (ISOC). Its entry into force was set for 1 January 2018, in any case for the first part of this reform. This means that advance payments made by companies in 2018 are already based on the provisions of the reform. What are the amounts of advance payments made by corporations by April 10, 2018 and July 10, 2018, which were the first two advance payment maturities of this year? Do these amounts, even if partial, tend to confirm or reverse the budgetary neutrality of the ISOC reform? If, on the basis of advance payments for the whole of 2018, the return on corporate tax seems insufficient to ensure budgetary neutrality, will you decide to reform the reform before the end of the legislature, in order to raise the revenue of ISOC?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u24	Mr Van Hees, first of all, with respect to the advance payments made by the companies, the first advance payment in 2018 brought back the sum of approximately 6.1 billion for the period from January to April 2018 - the precise amounts are shown in the written reply -, compared with 4 billion for the same period in 2017. Cumulative revenues, including the second instalment of the year - up to July 2018 - amount to approximately $9 billion, compared to $6.5 billion for the same period in 2017. Specifically, at the end of July 2018 and after two advance payments, growth of $2.5 billion was recorded, an increase of about 38%. This increase in advance payments is mainly due to measures taken in respect of the increase in the interest rate for the calculation of the increase, in the event of absence or insufficiency of advance payments, as well as the removal of provisions to avoid the increase in tax where the amount of the increase does not reach a certain threshold. These measures have been used as an incentive for companies to make advance payments. Corporate tax reform takes place in several phases, most of which will apply from the 2019 tax year, for fiscal years beginning on or before January 1, 2018. The calculation of the tax due consists, on the one hand, of the advance payments made in the 2018 budget year and, on the other hand, of the corporate tax returns that will be taken into account when entering the 2019 tax year, which will start in principle from October 2019. As a result, it is still far too early to confirm or reverse the budgetary neutrality of corporate tax reform. This can only be estimated from October 2020, when recruitment is sufficiently advanced and representative results are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic975x.u25	Minister, your answer is very clear. In your view, the increase in advance payments does not in any way affect the budgetary neutrality of the reform. Since it is the new premium rules that influence advance payments, no conclusion can be drawn. You are telling me that it will be from October 2020 – that is, when the next government is in place – whether or not we can judge the budgetary neutrality of corporate tax reform. You are committed to ensuring this neutrality, but knowing that it will actually be up to the next government to ensure it.
