ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u1	Madam Chair, fifteen days ago, I turned a few questions into written questions so that the minister could recover her delay. For eight of my questions, I received no response from the government. It's not right. There's a real problem. We were told we would receive the answers, but we didn't get anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u2	Is there an explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u3	Normally, there's no problem. There are many questions that are transformed into written questions during our committee sessions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u4	I have received no answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u5	I will inquire and forward the answer to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u6	Normally, the replies are sent to the secretariat of the commission and are then published in the written question book.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u7	Can this be done today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u8	You're vais me renseigner.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u9	Madam Minister, you have received a summary e-mail. This is about ten questions. If we could have a response via the secretariat today or tomorrow, that would be good.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u10	Madam President, Madam Minister, the images filmed with cameras hidden by patient associations show us a sad reality, that of people with chronic inflammatory bowel diseases, including Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Very often, they are denied access to toilets in shops and restaurants, even if they show their "emergency toilet" card. Munies of this map, which has existed since 1987, should have quick access to toilets in Horeca, shops or other public or private establishments. The problem is that the map is now too little known and, above all, it is not legally binding. This poses a real problem for the people in question. One of them explains: "Between the beginning of the cramp and the moment I have to go to the bathroom, a minute ago. If we don't find a toilet within this time frame, we'll do it." This is the testimony of a person with Crohn's disease. The result is that people with these diseases no longer dare to leave and isolate themselves. In view of this, the two associations (CCV-vzw and CrohnRCUH) have launched a petition in which they claim to make the "emergency toilet" card legally binding. It is estimated that between 30,000 and 35,000 people are affected by these diseases in Belgium. Making the map legally binding would allow these people to break out of their isolation, to encourage their participation in public life. Minister, are you willing to meet with patient associations and respond to their demands? Do you intend to do what is necessary to make the "emergency toilet" card legally binding? Finally, do you have precise figures on the number of people with Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis? If so, what is their evolution over time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u11	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, the problems you mention are real and have been raised by the patients who have launched a petition. I hope that with this card, the owners of horeca or store will allow them to go to the bathroom. We welcomed the associations that launched this petition. On this occasion, the need was stressed to consult with my eight colleagues responsible for this subject and with the Ministers of the Economy, because I do not alone have the competence to prepare a law on an obligation to provide access to toilets for patients with passports. On the other hand, the associations indicated that they had created a mobile application to transmit, instantly, information about the location of the washrooms around the point where a person is located, which could help these people, but it still needs to be accessible. We will organise a consultation on this subject in the presence of all the competent ministers, which is difficult to make clear to the citizens who think that going to a minister is sufficient when that is not the case. Nevertheless, the associations were received. They stressed the mandatory nature of the "emergency toilet" card and the necessary involvement of all competent persons in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, they remain unsatisfactory. If you plead for the re-federalization of health care – it seems to me that this is the translation of your answer! – the PTB is in full agreement with this type of measure. But with regard to the precise answer you are giving us, I have the impression that you are forcing the line: eight ministers competent for this question... It seems to me that it is the responsibility of the federal government or, if I understood you correctly, you would have to be more precise in order to demonstrate to us that this matter is not only federal or regional. As to whether the Minister of Health or the Minister of Economy has jurisdiction, the question is easier to decide. I feel like you're sending the applicants back to their studies. What you're telling them is that there's no solution, if I can hear you well. It is too complicated institutionally to resolve the issue. It's still pretty frightening to hear this in our country: "You have a real problem but it's too complicated to settle institutionally. So, we're not going to fix the problem"! As for the figures I asked you, obviously, you don't have to give us any. Madam Chair, I take note of the minister's unsatisfactory response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u13	Minister, as the question is out of date, I will focus on the inquiry. Minister, Protocol 3 services have been put in place as an alternative to nursing homes, with a view to delaying the entry into these institutions of persons over sixty years of age who are experiencing a worsening of their physical and cognitive condition. Phase 2 of this Protocol 3 ends on August 31, 2018. In order to evaluate the mechanisms, an academic consortium was set up to make an observation based on a data collection (including BelRAI) from the patients monitored, compared to a population not monitored by this type of service, for which the Intermutualist Agency database served as a reference. Following these reports, validated by the Insurance Committee in January 2018, a permanent working group was set up to accompany these protocol 3 services, which includes field actors (rest homes, mutuals, nurses, integrated home care services). A first disturbing element is that until November 2017, you expressed your refusal to continue protocol 3 services. This refusal was a message to the services, announcing that the projects would stop and that adequate arrangements should be made by August 31, 2018. As a result, many services gave advance notice to their team and the workers left. As a result of pressure from front-line services, which found protocol 3 services particularly useful, you changed your mind – so much the better! – and you have decided to retain the 12 million of this budget to extend these services from 1 September 2018 to 31 December 2020. In itself, this is a good thing. On the other hand, I have difficulties. If I understood correctly, you want to change the funding; it would become a fee-for-service funding, whereas it was a lump sum before. This means that the providers will have to send the mutuals the invoices for each act performed with the patient. In addition to complication, acts are limited to those laid at the bedside of persons. However, a majority of benefits (almost 60%) are not only with the person, but also with his or her social, family environment, with the aim of mobilizing the network around him or her. Indeed, these elderly people, who have psychological and cognitive problems, who are getting worse, become "unbearable" and are abandoned by all. Most of the benefits, which consist of this mobilization of the network, would no longer be taken into account. You limit the services to psychological care, occupational therapy and those of the box managers. It seems to be in line with reality. The rest has yet to be harmonized. But you're forcing managers to be nurses. In many cases, however, these managers, who coordinate the services around the patient, particularly those of occupational therapists and psychologists, are not nurses. You don't have to be a nurse. A multidisciplinarity is even expected. Both academic and KCE reports explain that it is interesting to have staff other than nurses, precisely to have this ability to detach themselves from the care and to focus on the overall approach of the person and his environment. So why this limitation? Especially since the maximum duration of these contracts is two years, with a maximum length of service of 13 years. There is therefore a risk of very few nurses applying. You say that the funding of benefits will be for a period of six months, which can be extended once, but no longer, considering that other services must take over. But which ones? In practice, while in many cases the duration of the benefit is 200 to 260 days, it is sometimes 600 days because it is necessary to provide accompaniment. There may even be one or two benefits when the person transits to the nursing home. How have these criteria been defined? Why thus limit benefits? My questions also concern these services, which were initially said to stop by 31 August, and then could continue for two years from 1 September. However, they lost members of their teams and gave notice. They will have to work in another way as a result of the various changes I have just mentioned. On what basis will they be assessed? How will this be organised? Therefore, additional information is really needed. We must be able to reassure them. With the new requirements, which it is, moreover, difficult to explain, we make every effort to prevent them from working properly. However, these services are all the more necessary as they work with all the other health actors on the ground, including the mobile teams set up in the context of reform 107. As I understand it, mobile teams (mental health, living environment) have expressed the wish that these people be trained with aging people while protocol 3 services specialize in accompanying these people with cognitive and mental health problems, who are used to working with mobile teams and who can mobilize the network around these patients. These are guidelines whose logic is difficult to understand. Minister, consultations are under way or are announced. What about this? It seems that, in fact, they are not sufficient or, in any case, that the information given is not well understood by the people on the ground, unless the will is to communitarize. In this case, an amendment to the Memorandum of Understanding of 13 June 2006 would be sufficient. But I do not have the feeling that this is your will. Anyway, I would like to understand, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u14	Mrs Gerkens, your questions are numerous. That said, I don't know where you were able to get the information that I decided to stop P3 services and interventions. My strategic unit has, on the contrary, worked extensively on the intensive work provided by INAMI. As you said, I have decided to maintain the annual budget of almost EUR 12.5 million, until 31 December 2020, after the various electoral deadlines to come, in order to avoid any problems related to the elections. My goal is to have continuity for the sector and for patients. There was only one evaluation of the three interventions: case management, psychosocial support and occupational therapy. No other interventions were evaluated before. There were no project-specific evaluations either. It is therefore not possible to distinguish between projects that have achieved good results and those that have not. Had P3 projects been discontinued, as previously suggested, there would have been a risk to patients who have received adequate and good quality care so far. For this reason, every effort has been made to enable projects offering maximum quality of care guarantees to enter a third phase. In addition, my strategic unit is collaborating on the intensive work of INAMI in order to arrive at a pragmatic solution enabling protocol 3 projects to continue their activities within a more defined framework. The frame in which they were located was rather vague. First, I confirm your analysis of the context of Memorandum of Understanding No 3 between the Communities, the Regions and the Federal State. The temporary nature of the projects, the selection that would be made at the end of the project phase and the need for all projects to be reorganised according to the research results were therefore part of the principles contained in the Memorandum of Understanding. Active participation in this scientific research was part of the provisions of the conventions concluded. The expiry date of the current agreements as of August 31, 2018 was set at the time of their entry into force on September 1, 2015, and has never changed. As for the results of scientific research, you can find the recommendations and all the reports prepared by the scientific team on the INAMI website. In summary, the recommendations distinguish several target groups that may benefit from an "effective cost" intervention among older people with loss of autonomy in their daily lives or an observable decrease in their cognitive performance, depending on the nature and severity of the dependency. The reports show that for these target groups, some home-based case management, occupational therapy and psychological follow-up interventions are beneficial to patients and their loved ones and reduce the total costs of health care insurance. The intensity of these interventions, however, needs to be adjusted according to the target group and other relevant factors (e.g. refusal of care, crisis of care and support networks, availability of close caregiver) to achieve the best cost-effectiveness. As you also note, for reasons of scientific validity, research has been limited to certain types of interventions. She was unable to assess the effect of interventions involving a small number of patients. The successive versions of the draft convention that have been submitted for consultation are all based on the recommendations made by the scientific team. The forms of care and care support that are planned are those that have demonstrated their effectiveness. Thus, the distribution of benefits funded between direct patient care and indirect care around the patient, for example in support of networks, is precisely the one observed in the projects, the effectiveness of which was found during the study and the effectiveness which is therefore recommended by the scientific team. The assignment of the case manager function to a nurse or at least to a health professional or even to other professions outside the medical sphere is based on several findings. First of all, the scientific report called implementation states that one of the skills is to have an adequate level of expertise in at least one of the areas of the cared person, for example in geriatric syndromes, depression, Alzheimer's and others. In addition, according to the report, the case manager works in a team that consists of at least nurses, alongside other professionals of help and care. Further on, it is said that in the absence of specific training for the case manager, the experts agree that the nurse is the most able to assume this function. This can be found on pages 108 to 112 of the report. The manager box must ensure that an overall balance sheet of the situation is drawn up and that the BelRAI is properly completed. He must be able to assume temporary responsibility for the coordination of care. It must ensure that the care plan is established and properly implemented. It must inform and advise the recipient and his or her caregiver in order to enable them to manage the care themselves. It must anticipate crisis situations that may lead to the use of preventable care. It must evaluate the results in consultation with other providers of the care program and ensure that the care plan is adapted to these outcomes. A set of tasks that require certain medical skills. In current projects, the case manager function is often performed by a nurse or care professional. When this is not the case, the function is often reduced to a simple coordination of care that does not include all the specialized tasks I have just mentioned. Then there is a problem because if something happens, you have to react quickly to restore the aid. There are sufficient arguments to argue that the case manager function must be performed by a nurse. The intervention period – six months, renewable once in the event of a new event – is also linked to the nature of these interventions. Under no circumstances is the agreement intended to finance prolonged accompaniment, occupational occupational therapy or psychotherapy in the medium or long term. It is intended to reimburse specific forms of care and support for care that are ad hoc, specialized and relatively intensive. One of the criteria for the success of these interventions is precisely that they are no longer necessary because the recipient, his or her helper and the various stakeholders in the network are able to take charge of the provision and coordination of care and support according to their skills. If an event involving a significant increase in a patient's need for care occurs, a review of the provision of care should be possible. For example, in the event of a hip fracture after a fall, a manager box would be justified again. On the reorganization of projects, as I have already pointed out, the temporary nature of the projects and the need for them to reorganise themselves according to the results of scientific research are among the fundamental principles of the experimental phase in which they participated. However, I would like to emphasize two points. First, the results of the research are based on the practices observed in the field in many projects. Recommendations are systematic for these practices. It is therefore incorrect to state that the services will have to change their entire operation from September 2018. Most will be able to maintain their activities by possibly adjusting them on an objective basis for greater efficiency. In addition, as you yourself have noted, the new agreement will provide projects with the opportunity to continue to carry out certain interventions that have not been evaluated by the scientific team due to too small a sample size, and have not yet demonstrated their effectiveness. Such assistance may be installed in the Convention by an amendment, subject to certain conditions, at the request of the projects. Finally, if necessary, the Convention may include transitional measures to enable projects to respond to all these provisions within a specified time. The proposal currently on the table is to extend the 38 projects by a type of convention-amendment from 31 August 2018 to 31 December 2019. Projects that so wish will have time to reorganise, while INAMI and its decision-making bodies will have the opportunity to examine applications for the agreement that will lead to continuations of P3 projects. It goes without saying that cooperation between all the parties was at the origin of the protocol between the Communities, the Regions and the Federal State. These parties will remain involved for the duration of the agreement. The consultation is institutionalized at the level of the Interministerial Conference on Public Health and in the Intercabinet Working Group on Chronic Disease. Representatives of the federated entities are also part of the Working Group on New Care Initiatives set up at INAMI to oversee the management of Protocol 3 projects. Local consultation with the integrated care project with mobile mental health teams and with all the structures set up by the psychiatry reform is one of the three main tasks assigned to Protocol 3 projects for the new convention. Finally, you suggest that I accept the transfer of these agreements to the Communities. As I have just pointed out, Protocol 3 is already the result of consultation between the Communities, the Regions and the Federal State. It is not up to me to decide unilaterally to transfer certain powers and the budgets allocated to them according to the circumstances. As you know, the sixth reform of the state has already organised the transfer of part of the P3 projects to the federated entities. This has resulted in the transfer of all Category 1 projects aimed at extending the transmural offer. Category 4 projects that guarantee the provision of care and support to users of new alternative forms of housing have remained the responsibility of the Federal State and therefore of INAMI. Category 2 covers care provided by nursing homes for the elderly, nursing homes and day care centres for patients who are still staying at home. Category 3 includes the organizational aspect of home parent care. The sixth reform of the State has already evacuated some areas of these projects. However, the projects which have remained at INAMI are very heterogeneous in terms of the types of care and support provided and it cannot be excluded that part of these activities fall in fact within the competence of the Communities and the Regions. For example, in Article 436, the Walloon Code of Social Action and Health already provides for coordination of home care and assistance, while Flanders has undertaken work to define the case management. It is both to ensure continuity and to allow a detailed examination of the care provided by the actors of the Protocol 3 project that I have decided to limit, for a year now, the budget allocated to the financing of these projects and to extend the care they provide in a more scientifically sound framework. The question of the distribution of competences will undoubtedly have to be considered during this transitional period at the level of the Inter-Ministerial Conference. We wanted to improve the scientific aspect but also to be certain that these projects would bring significant added value to patients. It should be noted that the conditions and the follow-ups were previously very basic.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u15	Madam Minister, the Protocol 3 projects that I know offer really indispensable work in mobilizing networks around people, as well as in mobilizing the person himself. I am therefore pleased that this will be extended until the end of 2020 at least and that the budget for these projects will be maintained. I did not understand your response to the funding of benefits. Do you keep the lump sum funding or do you go to the benefit funding? It seemed to me that, in the first part of your answer, you stated that direct and indirect services with the network were fundamental and recognized in their usefulness. But at the end of your answer, you say that since some benefits are on horseback between what is INAMI benefit and more of the order of support and support of the workers - family and others - and the management of teams, you only take what is the order of INAMI. Does this mean that, in the end, future funding will be provided through INAMI? Or do you keep the package?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u16	No, I don't think we're going to change the funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u17	This is in any case one of the concerns expressed by the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u18	They're just fears or rumors. Indeed, nothing has ever been said about this funding. If we don't change anything, it's just as it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u19	Good, because it's actually important. The information that comes back to me is about working groups that are in place and that are trying to follow up. The information that was circulating was that of the judgment as at 31 August. The services therefore intelligently anticipated the closure and made arrangements for that date. Now that there is no longer a question of stopping these services, the projects must restart. I would therefore really like to invite you to allow them a transition in the event that different assessments and working organisations need to be put in place. The necessary consultations must be undertaken with the workers and the teams in place. The last part of the question I tabled concerned federal and federal jurisdiction and may seem somewhat provocative. Either we find it important to have these conventions, which exist with the support of the federal government; or we no longer want to assume this role, in which case we must empower the federated entities to exercise it fully. But I understand that you are planning to maintain the consultation and coordination between the federal government and the federated entities. Minister, I will table a motion for a recommendation. If you want nurses to be in each of the teams that make up the management box, you need funding that allows them to be hired, while taking into account the old days and the workings of the teams. Personally, I think the case manager function could be occupied by others. Each patient must be given the necessary time - six months, eight months - and what matters most is the person's condition and what they need. The financing of the package must also be maintained, but your answer reassures me in this regard. It is also necessary to ensure the transition to the new modes of evaluation and operation, which are expected, especially by those who have prepared themselves for the cessation of activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u20	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the response of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, Asks the government: - ensure the full funding of nurses who would be made mandatory for the case managers function in protocol 3 services; - to monitor patients for the time they need; - to continue financing the package to maintain direct services and with the network; - intensify consultations with workers and monitoring teams; - to ensure the transition to the new modes of assessment and functioning expected." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Muriel Gerkens and the reply of the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, calls on the Government to: - ensure full funding for nurses who will now have to perform the role of case manager under Protocol 3 services; - ensure that patients are monitored for a sufficient period of time, - continue to finance Protocol 3 services on a flat-rate basis so that both direct benefits in kind and network activation can be maintained; - intensify consultation with staff and care teams; - provide for a transitional arrangement according to the expected new method of evaluation and operation.' A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Dirk Janssens. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u21	Madam President, Madam Minister, the transfer of nasal corticosteroids from category B to category Cx has made nasal sprays more expensive. You have solved this, or you would solve it, by giving the nasal sprays a double status, which makes them available with or without prescription. The patient would also be protected by the MAF. The concrete implementation of the decision would have taken some time and would not be in order until the second half of 2017. I would like to ask you about the current state of affairs. When will the measure be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u22	Madam President, Mrs. Jiroflée, you remain obsessed with nasal sprays. I have already given an answer to Question No 1 in this connection. 24760 by Mrs Van Camp. In short, the measure entered into force on 1 April 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u23	Madam Secretary, if that happened on 1 April 2017, then my information is not correct. I'll check it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u24	Minister, you like multinational drugs. The data from the Christian Mutuality, which were taken up yesterday by Le Soir and Het Laatste Nieuws, show us how the reimbursement of medicines to the pharmaceutical industry puts the health insurance budget at 267 million euros. Physicians, dentists, hospitals and kines all reduced their spending in 2017. One sector alone eats the bonus of others: the drug industry. The main person responsible for this skid is the "Article 81" system of agreements concluded with pharmaceutical companies for the reimbursement of an innovative drug with uncertain therapeutic benefits or budgetary impact. This mechanism is increasingly criticized by a group of public health experts (KCE, mutualities, the academic world) and is considered untenable. First of all, the problem is the total lack of transparency. These agreements, and in particular the annexes containing the reduction of prices negotiated by the Minister through the rebates granted by the firms, are ultra-secret. This confidentiality prevents external actors from verifying whether the negotiated prices are consistent with the added value of the product, and therefore to judge to what extent the discounts granted by pharmaceutical companies are sufficient. The generation of evidence to assess the clinical efficacy of these drugs is also considered insufficient. In recent years, these conventions have been used exponentially, with increasing amounts and enormous budgetary consequences. The estimate by your own firm, quoted in the press, would be one billion euros negotiated in 2017, which represents a quarter of the total expenditure on medicines. The magazine Médor, which had already made an estimate for the period 2015-2018, quoted the figure of two billion euros. Minister, do you confirm these figures? How do you explain this exponential increase in the reimbursement of Article 81 medicines in recent years? For how many of them has the therapeutic surplus value finally been proven? What steps have been taken to ensure and improve the generation of evidence in this regard? Is the confidentiality of the device not responsible for the inflation of drug prices? Yesterday, in Le Soir, you announced a consultation with the pharmaceutical industry to correct budget overruns. Will you, as in other sectors, require a refund of the benefit overrun next year? Last year, the KCE developed a series of ways to improve the Article 81 convention system. What follow-up do you intend to give to these proposals? KCE also highlighted four future scenarios for accessible drugs. How do you position yourself against scenarios in which drug policy is based on the real needs of patients rather than the interests of the pharmaceutical industry?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u25	Mr Van Hees, the primary objective of the conventions is to provide patients with access to innovative medicines at an acceptable cost. The conventions are one of the instruments of the medicine policy that allows the budget to be kept under control at best. Expenditure on proprietary medicinal products under contract cannot therefore be considered separately from the total drug budget. Your figures ranging from 1.2 billion to 2 billion were invented by someone who dreams of billions. These are not figures that I find in the tables. The fact that there are more and more agreements between INAMI and pharmaceutical companies is due to several factors. First of all, there are conventions that are worn out and that require more information and more evidence where there are still some uncertainties. By these agreements, these medicines are temporarily included in the refund list. After a period of one to three years, an evaluation is carried out. In the event of uncertainties having obtained answers (scientific or budgetary) from the pharmaceutical firm at the end of the convention, and if uncertainties remain, then one has the opportunity to establish another convention or to terminate. Often, with regard to the dossiers submitted to the European Agency (e.g. with Phase 2 studies or with budgetary uncertainty on the cost per patient or the number of patients), it is the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products (CRM), which also contains mutualities - as you know -, as an expert, which proposes to make a convention because there are risks associated with these uncertainties. How many of these drugs have therapeutic added value? Before starting negotiations on a specific pharmaceutical speciality with the responsible firm, the Independent Reimbursement Commission always carries out a prior assessment. In the case of a specialty for which the responsible firm claims therapeutic added value, a vote shall be taken during the CRM procedure in order to grant or not this added value to the specialty concerned. Some pursue and others are already liquidated. In most cases, the Commission also makes a price proposal. It is on the basis of these two elements that the members of the Convention Contract Working Group can decide what cost is acceptable. If a surplus value is known from CRM, an additional cost may be accepted. Of all the contacts that have been dealt with, it can be seen that, in the majority of cases, added value has been recognised by the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products. Is there not enough transparency? Or is it exciting that it's secret? Data confidentiality is essential for the pharmaceutical industry. In our country, Mrs.Onkelinx introduced this system in 2010, for a good reason. We were in a position where it was possible everywhere except at home. All countries have a similar system of contract negotiation. This system allows, on the one hand, to obtain a lower price for certain pharmaceutical products compared to the price which would be charged if the specialties were registered on the list of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products and, on the other hand, to offer patients access to these therapies at a lower cost to the public authorities. During the current legislature, the conventions have enabled the public authorities to save almost 500 million euros. Since there is no other funding system, the secret nature of these negotiations does not weigh heavily on all the benefits of this system. I have indeed stated in the Flemish press that I am prepared to consider other mechanisms. With the evolution, there are more and more innovative medicines, which are more quickly accepted by the European Medicines Agency. This will require an alternative financing system. I had many bilateral meetings last week in Tallin at the World Health Organization Congress on Access to Innovations. We are discussing this with the countries of the BeNeLuxA agreement, to do together the scanning horizon, the health technology assessment and to negotiate prices. I am very pleased that, in two days' time, Ireland will join us and sign this agreement. I am open to this, but so far, even the experts consulted do not have an alternative system allowing patients to have the same access to innovation as is the case today. We are trying to do this through international cooperation, and at this level there is a development. Of course, the KCE has issued its report. Like you, I read it with great attention. The "real needs" element must indeed be taken into account. Thanks to the concept of horizon exploration (which I call horizon scanning), I am continuing this initiative of cooperation with the countries surrounding us, as well as with Austria and Ireland recently. This will enable us to work more needs-oriented and implement a portfolio approach in our drug policy. These scripts are very interesting but we are not yet ready to implement them in our system today. To do this, the rest has yet to evolve.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u26	Minister, your answers have not reassured me entirely because I feel that section 81 is being used as a Trojan horse by the pharmaceutical industry to gain rapid access to the drug market. Confidentiality, which for you is a virtue, seems to me to lack transparency. It is not a virtue and it generally does not have a positive effect on prices, especially when one knows the relationships that you, or some members of your firm, can have with the pharmaceutical industry. You say there is no alternative at the moment. However, it seems to me that there are alternatives, particularly those mentioned in the KCE report. There are also binding licences. Under this scheme, the State obliges a company to license an essential medicine to another low-cost producing company in exchange for fair compensation paid to the patent holder.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u27	Do you know the conditions? There are two of them. One of them invokes the danger to public health. It is not present in all cases. Let us take the example of someone who suffers from a disease that atrophys his legs: it is not a question of danger to public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u28	On the one hand, you tell us, "Thanks to my secret agreements with the pharmaceutical industry, I save lives."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u29	Well, yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u30	On the other hand, you claim there is no danger.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u31	No, but obtaining a licence is based on certain conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u32	Yes. But to consider these conditions, we must already consider the track.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u33	The conditions are there to exclude so many other possibilities of having drugs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u34	Minister, it seems to me that you should start by looking at this track and then see under what conditions we can't or can't do it. You yourself say that there are cases where this cannot be done. This means that there are cases where this can be done. It seems to me that this trail is to be explored. This track is explored by other countries such as India. Belgium could also do so. As for the half billion savings, I assume you cannot detail the figures since they are confidential. Is there any possibility, however, of having the details?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u35	It's all counted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u36	That's it! And you must trust us!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u37	We're gonna stop there. We are in the context of an oral question. It will take another context to continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u38	Questions Nos 25498 and 25499 by Mrs Galant are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u39	Madam Minister, while many countries have already adopted the package of neutral cigarettes, this is not the case in Belgium. However, in November 2016, you were ready to take the necessary steps to establish a neutral cigarette package under this legislature, pending the impact of legislation adopted in other countries. Minister, what are your thoughts? We had some information this morning through your collaborator. Will we be entitled to the neutral package by the end of the legislature, as you announced? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u40	Mr Senesael, the anti-smoking plan contained several measures that were not non-existent: the goal of reducing the number of daily smokers in 2018 to 18% and making tobacco more expensive was achieved, as was the goal of limiting demand, making treatments more accessible, limiting supply and protecting passive smoking. More specifically, and as I have already indicated several times, my willingness to implement standardized cigarette and tobacco packages before the end of the legislature remains complete. Before finalising this dossier, however, I would like to benefit from the first analyses related to the introduction of this measure in France and the United Kingdom in the course of 2017. Although these data are still limited, they will be used for discussions within government. To avoid wasting time, my services have already drafted draft legislation. The principle will be discussed within the government in the coming weeks. In parallel, and in line with what was announced in my anti-smoking strategy, my administration will also be in charge in the coming weeks of organizing a consultation of the stakeholders concerned. As you have seen in the press, there have already been consultations within our administration, both with the stakeholders and with tobacco producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u41	Minister, you confirm what we heard from your collaborator this morning. Several months ago, you were already talking about "a few weeks", so I hope that today's "a few weeks" will be reduced and that before the holidays of this parliamentary session, we will be able to see a concrete measure formalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u42	Madam President, Madam Minister, this is a follow-up question to my written question No. 23759 of February of this year. You replied to that written question that you will take certain initiatives, but there was no timing, and I have further questions on that. In your answer to that written question, you say that a second audit that maps out the impact of the protocol agreement has almost been completed. Can you tell me when the result of that second audit is there? With regard to the transposition of the Euratom Directive, you reply that the FANC completes this transposition. When's that scheduled for? You mention that the FANC is finalizing the design of royal decree on medical imaging. Is that draft royal decree ready yet? So that too is a question of timing. You also mention that the added value of blood tests compared to CT scans requires further research. Which competent authority will carry out further investigations into this matter, or will you designate a body for that purpose? You mention that very hard work is being done on the introduction of decision support tools, including the setting up of pilot studies. You also refer to an application which is already being used in the United States and which is also supported by the European Radiology Association. In this context, too, I would like to know when this plan will be delivered in concrete terms, so what the timing is, and if other decision support tools will be introduced. Finally, you mention that measures have been agreed in the National Agreement on Medical Funds to further reduce over-consumption. My question is therefore what measures are involved. Do you have a timing for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u43	Mrs Dedry, as regards your first question, the audit and analysis of the Medical Evaluation and Control Service were delayed because there were errors in the data that the service received again from the insurance institutions in September and December. Meanwhile, the DGEC has new data. Work is now continuing on the final version of the audit report with analyses for CT and MRI. This report would be ready by the beginning of June. This will then be discussed during the Interkabinets Working Group on Medical Imaging. On the basis of this report, several policy options will be examined. If relevant, they can then be further developed. The delay incurred was therefore due to errors in the data of the insurance institutions. As far as your second and third questions are concerned, these are actually intended for my colleague Mr Jambon. As you know, the FANC is within its remit. In any case, many people from your political family know that. So I can only give you what I know. The regulatory framework on radiation protection is currently under review. This review is being carried out in the context of the transposition of the Euratom Directive and concerns several parts of the ARBIS, the 2001 Royal Decree on the protection of the general public, workers and the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation. Sector-specific topics are taken out of the ARBIS and housed in separate royal decrees. This is also the case for medical exposure and exposure in non-medical imaging with medical radiological equipment. The FANC informed us that the finalisation of this royal decree is coming. So it will be for the coming months. You asked if there was an authority for the added value of a blood test. Yes, the Technical Medical Council must take the initiative to make a proposal for reimbursement. So far, this hasn't happened. A study on the role of biomarkers in eliminating brain injuries in mild skull trauma, such as the S100B protein blood test, was conducted by the KCE. This resulted in report 261, which was published in 2016. A new investigation is not currently under discussion. Then I come to your fifth question. A proof of concept called iGuide, which is a test phase consisting of a technical feasibility test and a measurement of the effect on prescribing behaviour, is prepared by a working group in which the FPS Public Health, the RIZIV, the FANC and industry experts are represented. In view of the challenges of implementation within hospitals and the first line, different working groups are being worked on. These will develop the strategy and the plan of approach for a proof of concept. A communication plan for the prescribers will also be developed. We wish to start with the proof of concept in the second half of this year. In your question you also talk about introducing other decision support tools. There is no introduction of decision support in areas other than medical imaging. The iGuide test, which absorbs a lot of work, will be important to determine whether we can go even further in this area in technical terms and whether decision support systems can be rolled out. Then I come to your sixth question. The National Medical Medical Funds Agreement 2018-2019 states that a mechanism of financial resabilisation for prescribers will be introduced into medical imaging. To this end, a distinction will be made between the origins of prescribers in the medical imaging envelope for outpatient benefits: is it the general practitioner or is it the specialist? In case of excess of the envelope, prescribers showing excessive frequency or volume requirements will be placed under monitoring. Financial measures will be taken if there is no change in the prescriber's behaviour. The Medicomut is now looking into this and has promised to give substance to the principles by 30 June 2018, so next week, taking into account both the role of the prescriber and the role of the provider. The agreement also states that, within the framework of the plan, effective care will also be provided with individual feedback to the general practitioners and to the medical homes, including with regard to medical imaging. As in the case of prescription behaviour, they are given a profile, albeit for radiological benefits in kind. That will allow them to do peer review in this area too and to be confronted with what they all prescribe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u44	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the answers. You always answer very carefully and very detailedly. The mill, however, clearly grinds very slowly. After all, there is a great deal of delay in several of these very important measures, which are already reflected in your policy plans. I have noted the dates you have given me here and the target dates. We will continue to follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u45	Madam Minister, employers' organisation Voka has published an interesting paper, entitled Breaking Taboos to transform care. It analyses the costs of care in Belgium compared to the European average. Of course, it also involves the ageing population in its analysis, with the concern that we will need many billions more by 2040. She also wants to get rid of the excessive use of medical imaging - the subject of my previous question - overdiagnosing, misplaced surgery and too much medication. So you and I are certainly not the only ones who care about this. It makes a plea for much more focus on prevention. I am not going to go over the whole paper, but I will make three points, and I would like to know what your position is on some of Voka's proposals. One of the proposals is to abolish and prevent deconvention, so that care providers always have to comply with official tariffs. Another proposal is that care without added value should be paid by the citizen himself. Another proposal is a kind of mandatory franchise for curative care worth 177 euros, whereby the funds released would shift to the maximum invoicing for the elderly and home care. Madam Minister, these three proposals do not mean that I agree with them and that they are my proposals, but I think it is three proposals that think out of the box, which always deserves my attention and your reflection.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u46	Mrs Dedry, it has also become clear to Voka that our health care is facing enormous challenges. A number of reforms will have to be made, and that is what I am doing. I read some of their ideas, some of which we are already implementing, but they may not know. I refer to the creation of hospital networks with a division of tasks between hospitals, the introduction of a bundled funding for low variable care in hospitals, the Plan Evidence-Based Practice, supporting the application of scientific directions in healthcare practice. There are measures to prevent over-consumption of care, for example our measures against over-use of antibiotics and medical imaging, but also of tranquilizers, sleepers and antidepressants, with a response of all actors, both caregivers and patients. I also refer to the reform of care for chronic patients, with an overall and integrated approach. I refer to the introduction of Pay-for-Quality in the hospital funding that we are preparing, the use of eHealth applications to organise cooperation between different healthcare providers around the patient, but also to the modernisation of the role of health insurance funds, which are becoming increasingly health funds. There are initiatives to put the patient at the helm of his or her health, i.e. access to health data. We also work with our decision pyramid on apps to monitor health. They also say that there must be a compulsory convention. The word "obligatory" is in, but it is something that does not work in our country. I'm doing everything I can to persuade caregivers to sign a convention. It is very important that for a patient there is a sufficiently wide range of conflicted providers to whom he or she can address. In addition, I have already done a great deal in this legislature to reduce the wage supplements. Just think of the extension of the ban on pay supplements in double or multiple rooms to day hospitalization. Measures have also been taken for excessive supplements, e.g. breast reconstruction with own tissue after cancer. A mixed working group RIZIV-FOD is currently looking at the Honorary Wage Supplements in the hospitals. Access to affordable care is sufficiently guaranteed in our country. This is also evident from international rankings and ratings. We are therefore working hard to keep it that way. The review of care for its scientific added value is one of the tasks of the consultative bodies in which doctors, scientists and academics are represented. They make proposals for reimbursement to the policy. It attaches great importance to the evidence-based aspect of the proposals I adopt and support. I refer to the Plan Evidence-Based Practice. I also started the action plan on effective care. The aim is to verify that the care offered is effective and used responsibly. As far as the obligatory franchise for patients is concerned, I would remind you that keeping curative care affordable is one of the main objectives of my policy and of the reform agenda that I am implementing. It is also with this objective in mind that I support the preference system, the maximum invoicing, the third payment system, the status of chronically ill and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You walked in parallel with Voka in everything you mentioned in the beginning. That is, of course, why I did not list all this myself. With regard to deconvention, you say that an obligation does not work, but I do not believe that it does. That is where we differ. I also disagree with you about the fact that access to our care is sufficiently guaranteed. Research contradicts that, because the health gap is only widening.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u48	Madam President, Minister, the last edition of the Health Survey dates back to 2013. Apparently, the new guy would be running right now. I have been informed that a hatch has now also been attached to it in which effective measurements are made, including of the BMI and the abdominal circumference. Where are we on this health survey? How many people are currently represented and how is it going? Are the first results available yet? When is the final delivery scheduled? The last edition dates back to 2013. So we are still using data from more than five years ago to map things, such as the problem of obesity and obesity. I believe that we are still relying on these figures because there are no other data available. Our group has already expressed its support here on a number of occasions in order to improve data access. We could combine the demographic data, which are available anyway, with the medical data at a higher level, so that we have even more detailed data. But that doesn't really matter here. For the time being, therefore, we still have to rely on the health survey. If I notice that the latest version dates back five years, I wonder why a health survey is not planned and carried out every year or every two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u49	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the Health Interview Survey work is proceeding as planned. The data collection phase started in January of this year and will run until December. The aim is to conduct interviews of 11 300 people belonging to 6 500 families. To select these individuals, a stratified multistage, clustered sample method was used to determine the regional populations. The net sample in the Walloon Region should also include interviews in the German-speaking Community. The National Register is used as a sampling framework. A limited number of cities or municipalities were selected in each region. A limited number of households are selected in each selected city or municipality. In each selected household, up to four members are selected for an interview. The results were weighted to reflect the population composition. My services at Sciensano informed me on 18 May that 3 228 interviews had already been conducted. The fieldwork in the context of the Health Interview Survey will, as I said, take place in a year's time. The first dates are currently entering Sciensano, but the analysis will begin at the earliest at the end of this year. The results will be published during the second half of 2019. With regard to the Health Examination Survey section, the counter stood on 3 June at 372 permissions, of which 147 studies were already carried out and 72 agreements were established. You ask for a higher frequency, in particular that a health survey is carried out every year. To begin with, such a study costs 1.8 million. That amount should be available every six years, but I assume that this is not a problem for you. Then, as you know, it is about non-transferable and chronic diseases. Well, the determinants and the care services are a particular focus in the health survey. Given that this domain is evolving relatively slowly, it is not really necessary to have these surveys followed more quickly. We follow Eurostat's recommendations, which recommended that health surveys be carried out every six years, which also allows for better coordination between different policy-related surveys. It is about a balance between costs and benefits, because the surveys require a lot of work, a lot of staff and a lot of resources. The 2018 Health Survey in our country is the sixth of its kind and is funded from resources from both the federal level and the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u50	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u51	Madam Minister, for decades the pharmaceutical sector in our country, and indeed throughout Europe, has been heavily regulated. This is also necessary, as we know the health risks that can be associated with taking medicines. From the outset, however, this regulation, as well as its protection, was much less strong for medical devices. The same applies to the implants, which are a category of them, and which are very invasive to the human body, just like the medicines they take. A few years ago, especially around 2010-2011, there were serious health problems due to defective implants that should never have been placed on the market. Cases that reached the press at the time were hip prostheses that released metal ions into the body, resulting in permanent health damage, and also leaking breast implants. A recent article in the weekly magazine Knack reminded us of the distressing consequences such cases may have for the people concerned years later. As a result of such serious facts, your predecessor, Mrs Onkelinx, has worked out and have the Government approve the Medical Hullens Plan. This plan later resulted in the law of 15 December 2013 on medical devices. Since the five-year existence of this law is approaching, it seems to me that it is time to evaluate its application and implementation. I have noted that measures have recently been taken concerning the registration by distributors and the notification of a contact point Vigilance. Nevertheless, we have not yet noticed any rules on traceability, as provided for in the plan and in the law on medical devices. The law provides that the professional who implants, removes or replaces an implantable medical device must communicate the relevant data to the FAGG for registration and storage in a database. Only then will it be possible, in the event of problems with a particular implant, to find all persons with whom it has been implanted in the near future. I come to my questions, Madam Secretary. What implementing measures of the Law of 15 December 2013 on medical devices are still expected? When will the mandatory traceability of implantable medical devices be finalized? When will the necessary royal decrees be published? Which categories of implantable medical devices will be subject to mandatory traceability? What measures do you intend to take before this legislature on medical devices, and in particular the protection of public health in this area? When and how will the application of the Medical Devices Plan and the Law of 15 December 2013 on medical devices be evaluated with a view to further policy in this sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u52	Ms Jiroflée, implants have been traced by a number of hospitals on a voluntary basis since 2014. In order to make it easier for other hospitals to prepare for mandatory traceability, an additional way is currently being worked to forward this data to the traceability register. If these tests are positive with some new hospitals, traceability will be generalised, for all hospitals, but also for private practices in Belgium. To this end, a royal decree will be published this year. This will therefore immediately implement Articles 51 and 53 of the Law of 15 December 2013 on medical devices. That mandatory traceability will apply to ten types of implants, all stents, all neurostimulators, cochlear implants, hydrocephalus shuttles, orthopaedic implants, aesthetic or reconstructive implants, electrodes and biosensors, mechanical, electronic and electrical heart implants and ophthalmic implants. The Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products has developed a system for self-checking in the medical devices sector. The aim is to ensure that all actors in the field of medical devices share responsibility for the quality and safety of medical devices. That is also in implementation of the plan we have made with the medical devices sector. The FAGG will first carefully identify all actors in the Belgian market. The current Directives are clarified by means of an auto-control guide. Subsequently, all registered actors will exchange the required information about their products and/or activities with the FAGG. The information obtained from the actors will then be subject to risk analysis in order to carry out better and more targeted inspections and controls. The FAGG is also working intensively on the implementation of the new European rules, which will lead to a tightening of quality standards. In addition to incorporating into our national law the points on which we as a Member State still have to take a position, the FAGG is now also committed to improving communication and guidance or sensitisation of the actors in our market, in order to prevent the commercialisation and use of non-compliant medical devices. The evolution of the various dossiers is summarised and evaluated monthly by my policy cell, representatives of the FAGG and the RIZIV and representatives of the medical devices sector. These monthly progress reports are, of course, followed up by the Medical Devices Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed answer. I note that private practices will also be taken into account immediately. There will also be a KB this year and there will be better and more targeted inspections. Furthermore, monthly progress reports will be published. We'll follow up on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u54	Madam President, Madam Minister, for patients who are already being treated with Elaprase, the reimbursement is going through, but for new patients it is currently on hold. I asked a question about this a while ago and I would like to know if there is any more news.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u55	Madam President, Ms Van Camp, the pharmaceutical company Shire submitted an application to the Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting on 31 May 2017 to also provide for the reimbursement of Elaprase for new patients who are not eligible under the current reimbursement conditions. I have recently taken this decision on a proposal from the Committee on Medicinal Products. The entry into force of the new repayment conditions is fixed on 1 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u56	Madam President, Madam Minister, in May the government approved the reimbursement to the first-line psychologist. The sector has waited a long time for it. I, too, have frequently asked questions about this and I am therefore initially satisfied with the agreement in principle. I can understand that the conditions at the start are strict and still too limited, but I do have a number of critical comments, which I share with the sector. The consultation with the GP is important to lower the threshold for the patient, but I do not understand why access and the right to reimbursement should be linked to a prescription from the GP or psychiatrist. First-line psychologist is a full-time first-line profession. In the Medicomut model in our country, healthcare providers themselves conclude conventions about their remuneration. I myself am a cool lover of overly passionate performance-funded care. I think there are other models possible. If I understand correctly, the funding is from hospital funding, based on Article 107. I do not like the financing of a first-line operation through the flows of hospital funding visionary. After all, both are at odds. As far as the budget is concerned, I agree that the starting budget may be low, but I have already asked you a question on this and you did not agree with me at the time. You said I couldn't count and that it was about the amount for one quarter that I had to multiply. However, I am now reading that it is only EUR 22.5 million a year and not a quarter. You told the psychologists that they only get 45 euros. They are not satisfied with that. They say they wouldn't sign in, but you made a comparison with the general practitioners in the media. The comparison does not, however, take into account the time frame. However, I can understand that it is not about a good pay for the psychologist, but about the proper reimbursement for the patient. In that I follow the sector less. Madam Secretary, what do you think is the added value of organising the consultation of a psychologist through general practitioners? For what reason do you choose this method of financing? Is the reason why you can offer a closed envelope in this way, so you can control the amount? This means that patients may not be able to be helped from October to the end of the year because the envelope is empty. What exactly is the figure of EUR 22.5 million? Was I wrong or did you make a mistake? The sector said it had not been heard sufficiently in the preparation of the modalities and would like to put forward some further proposals itself. The dome of psychologists states that the psychologists will not sign in under these conditions. I really hope the dome is wrong. Perhaps you can confirm any entries already.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u57	Madam President, Mrs Dedry, the staff of my policy cell, together with the administrations of RIZIV and the Public Health Office, have in recent months drawn up a plan for the many aspects of the reimbursement of psychological aid. After the agreement in the nuclear cabinet, the plan needs to be worked out. The aspects on which you ask questions are addressed in the plan. I can inform you of this, albeit without preliminaries on the final arrangement, as the consultations are still ongoing. It is true that the intention is to adapt the supply on the basis of the mental health networks established as part of the reform of Article 107. The care that will be reimbursed belongs to the first-line psychological care. It's often ignored. For example, I read statements from patients in need of long-term specialised care. However, the reimbursement refers to first-line psychological care. This reimbursement can be the real start-up for the so-called function 1 of the mental health care networks. There is an explicit mention of early detection, screening and diagnosis, which are perfectly within the scope of clinical psychology or orthopedagogy. One aspect to which much attention has been paid in the preparation process is indeed the reimbursement of the patient. We do not want to make the patient's reimbursement too high a threshold. The current plan is to distribute the budget among the different healthcare regions of the networks, according to Article 107. This will result in an annual maximum number of refundable sessions per region. That number will be recorded in an agreement with the psychiatric hospital of the network. In order to ensure that the annual ceiling is not exceeded and that there is an equal distribution of sessions over the year, the number of sessions carried out will be monitored by the network's partners concerned. With regard to the referral by the general practitioner or psychiatrist, I would like to mention that the referral by the general practitioner or psychiatrist will work just down the threshold and will promote care continuity for the patient. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility that the referee can directly check the availability of the participating clinical psychologists and reserve a session in the presence of the patient. In this way, the patient should no longer start calling around himself to find a clinical psychologist, who also wants to work according to this method. Such smart procedures increase the likelihood that a patient will go to a psychologist effectively. Finally, as regards the role of the general practitioner, I refer to the reaction of the Flemish Patient Platform, which you always listen to very carefully: "The statement that the general practitioner plays a central role in the patient's health care, we would immediately undermine by excluding the domain of mental health care. Health is a holistic thing and it is therefore only natural that, when someone has difficulties with his or her mental health, the general practitioner is also aware of it and can forward it to him or her. Anyone who wants to can still go straight to a psychologist without knowing the doctor. Only he or she will not fall within the refund. There must be people like that. Moreover, the existing consultation model with the hospitals per provider group is not so much detrimental because it leads to performance financing but rather because it is counterproductive for an integrated approach if each provider group decides on its own reimbursement separately, without aligning it with the other care providers. We must not lose sight of the budgetary context either. You do not think EUR 22.5 million is enough. So did I, but it was the intention to build the budget further. I would remind you that in the past the same amount has always been provided for, in particular EUR 0. It is essential that buffers are built in in order to keep expenditure within the scope of these measures as well. In order to ensure the involvement of the professions, it seems clear to me that the Convention Committee of the psychiatric hospitals hears a delegation from the clinical psychologists or the orthopedagogics when it comes to this particular dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u58	Madam Minister, I agree with you on a number of points, but I doubt that it is guaranteed that the budget will not be exceeded under Article 107. Maybe so, but I think this is how inequality can come, because when the budget runs out in October, it's gone. Then someone with depression doesn't have the same help as someone with depression in January. You're saying the meeting's still going on. So everything has not yet been fully phased out; as long as the consultations are under way, that is a good thing, because that means that you are listening to the concerns of the domes. I wonder what the timing is. I also understand that psychologists will be heard in the Agreement Committee. That is a good thing, but I do not agree at all with you on how to finance it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u59	We have no news of Mr Calomne, his question No 25564 is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u60	Madam President, Minister, the procedure for the transfer of pharmaceutical officers is the subject of many criticisms by some pharmacists who have already applied for a change in their location. Among the problems that have recently been brought to my attention, there is the fact that the procedure is far too cumbersome and too slow due to the compulsory involvement of too many actors. The Royal Order of 25 September 1974 governing the opening, transfer and merger of pharmaceutical officers provides that in order to submit the application file for authorization to the Commission d'implantation, several notices are required: that of the governor of the province, that of the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products, that of the professional unions and that of the Medical Commission. In addition, it is my responsibility to note that problems of lack of staff are also to be regretted, leading to serious delays in the processing of applications and in the decision-making of the Commission d'location. Minister, in the face of this situation, which puts many pharmacists in difficulty, solutions must be found quickly. Will the announced revision of the Royal Decree of 25 September 1974 speed up the procedure for the transfer of pharmaceutical officers? If so, what changes are you considering to allow for faster processing of transfer requests? How long will these new provisions be applicable? Are you aware of the delays experienced by the Commission in processing transfer requests? If so, how do you intend to remedy it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u61	Madam President, Minister, I wrote to you a few weeks ago to bring the situation of a pharmacist to your attention. She finds herself stuck in a rather unbearable situation. She requested the transfer of her pharmacy located on the ground floor of a polyclinic, to another room. As you know, there are always special clauses for these transfers. In particular, it had to take purchasing options. It had to continue to finance two locations, and thus assume two rental charges at the same time. All of this because processing transfer requests takes a lot of time. I haven't received a reply from you to my mail. My colleague has just recalled the rules; I am not going to repeat them, but I would add that there are very long deadlines, since opinions must be given within 60 days with regard to the Governor, the Medical Commission, the AFMPS and pharmaceutical organisations. In addition, the Commission may order additional investigative measures and, again, it shall deliver its opinion within 60 days of the day of the sitting. These are particularly lengthy and cumbersome procedures, but in the meantime, the situation on the ground is complicated for pharmacists. I also learn that at the AFMPS level, there is only one person working two half days a week. The person who worked with her on a full-time basis has been away for more than a year and has not yet been replaced. I also learn that the Commission is 14 months late. These are three judges of a certain age, since they are over 70 years old, I am told, and that they are themselves retired - at that age, we understand - but they are also regularly ill. This can of course happen, but they do not meet on the scheduled dates. In practice, the consequences of all this are obviously the pharmacists who suffer them and who are penalized. It's not the only file. I've talked about it with different bodies. Can we clarify things here in committee with regard to these problems in the handling of requests for transfer of pharmacies? Have you considered this? You cannot ignore it because, as I reminded you earlier, I wrote to you about it myself. What action can it take to solve these problems in a very concrete way? I mentioned the points of weakness. It seems to me that we must be able to envisage a revision of the Royal Decree of 25 September 1974.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, one of the objectives of the multiannual framework was to simplify the procedure for the transfer of pharmaceutical officers. As described in the multi-year framework, the advice of the Governor, the Provincial Medical Commission and other stakeholders in the advisory process will no longer be sought. In addition, the Commission for the implantation of medicinal products will be abolished and its task will be taken over by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products. The revision of the transfer procedures will be designed to promote maximum administrative simplification in order to help simplify the procedure. The revision of the Royal Decree of 25 September 1974 was the subject of numerous meetings between my administration and the professional associations. I can inform you that this work is coming to an end and that a draft royal decree will be tabled in the coming months. This project must, of course, take up all the necessary steps in order to be subject to the King's signature and to be published. The primary source of the problem is the fact that, on many occasions, the siting committee had to be cancelled due to the absence of one or more members. This problem was exacerbated by the fact that the Commission did not have alternate members who could replace the actual absent members. I stress here that the members in question must be magistrates and that, therefore, it is not always easy to find candidates. I have therefore appointed an alternate member as a matter of urgency. This has enabled the Commission's meetings to be relaunched, which are now scheduled in a short period of time to address the delays. Today, 204 cases are still pending. I hope that after August, the processing of cases will be resumed within normal processing times, as provided for in the Royal Decree of 25 September 1974. As you said, 14 months late. But I would remind you that there was no possibility of replacing an absent member. However, if not all members are present, the meeting cannot take place. For the rest, as other opinions will no longer be necessary, the deadlines can be shortened. In addition, it is true that the procedure was very cumbersome, but it must also be taken into account that it took some time to reach agreement between the various organizations on the ground. Indeed, professional associations are not always on the same wavelength.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u63	Thank you, minister, for that clarification. These are good prospects for the future. However, have you taken steps to reduce the liability, which is still important? I hear that we will be able to have the alternates sitting when there is no quorum, which should make it easier for the committee to meet...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u64	We have also reduced the number of opinions required. This will shorten the deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u65	For the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u66	For those who are in the process of treatment. As soon as this can begin, it is in this way that they will be treated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u67	Minister, thank you for that answer. I knew, after meeting with the organizations representing the pharmacists of officials, that the work was progressing concretely for the future. Let us do something that is simplified, effective, with deadlines set and mandatory. Furthermore, we will see whether the appointment of the alternate magistrate will make it possible to move the cases currently blocked forward. I would like to draw your attention to two types of measures. First of all, once the whole journey is done, you yourself have a three-month time limit to make a decision because, in the end, the decision is up to the minister. Compared to all the blocked files, I ask you at least not to foresee this three-month period again and to move forward in an extremely short period of time. Second, there is a difficulty at the AFMPS level, where very few staff are assigned to the management of these files. If we are not to drag too far upstream of the so-called Commission d'location, we would also need an acceleration on the part of the Agency in the processing of cases. The challenge for the pharmacists concerned is that decisions are taken now, as a matter of urgency, given the extremely negative impact they must have.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u68	I feel that there is a shared will. It remains to be applied in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u69	Minister, since you took office, you have been in favour of zero tolerance for drugs, which is largely supported by your majority partners. As a result, for months, you have been opposing an end to our proposal for the legal establishment of lower-risk consumer rooms, which allow dependents to use drugs more safely and to reduce nuisances in the public space. And yet, the Dutch-speaking press tells us that since October, the Zorghostel has been home to about twenty residents in the city of Antwerp. It is a care facility that houses homeless people, people in deep care who are allowed to use illicit substances, with psychosocial supervision. According to Fons Duchateau, N-VA president of the local CPAS, the objective of the project is obviously to get these people out of the dependency, reducing nuisances and feeling of insecurity. He therefore put forward exactly the same arguments as those put forward in the framework of the Belgian pilot project. Minister, do you confirm this information? Do you continue to oppose an amendment to the legislation to allow for the existence of these consumer rooms? So is zero tolerance only in the south of the country and not in the north, specifically where your majority partners are in power?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u70	Mr Frédéric, I really regret that we are trying to communitize the debate around lower-risk consumer rooms on the basis of incorrect information. With regard to the Zorghostel set up in Antwerp, we made contact with the city of Antwerp, which provided us with information. As part of the treatment of a specific group of homeless people facing multiple problems, Antwerp permanently accommodates highly dependent homeless people in the Zorghostel. They are accompanied on an ongoing basis by multidisciplinary stakeholders. Their room is considered as all other private dwellings. The focus is on providing opportunities and rebuilding a decent life. Rehabilitation is the objective of the project but being weaned is not a condition for entering the project, it would not make sense. The accompaniment works 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and covers different areas of life with a positive impact on autonomy. This is in no way a space for drug users where people are briefly present to use their illicit drugs. It is therefore not a consumer room. Antwerp drug users remain exposed to the legal consequences of their use. With respect to your second question, federal legislation does not allow for the establishment of a lower-risk place of consumption. The provision of a facility that encourages or facilitates the use of illegal drugs is subject to criminal prosecution under the Drugs Act of 1921. I have taken note of the political will to install a lower-risk consumer room in the city of Liège. Both the mayor and the one who would bear responsibility for it from his experience came to present the project. Our interview was very positive. I am sensitive to the arguments put forward for such an initiative, but I find it important, if not essential, for both local and consumer stakeholders, that this take place within a stable and clear legal framework. This is a decision taken by the various ministers responsible at the federal level. This decision concerns both Health, Justice and Home Affairs. It cannot be taken unilaterally at my level. I therefore requested that a meeting be held with the Minister of Justice, Mr. Geens. Looks like it happened. But he himself said that there was no agreement within the government to amend the 1921 Act. That's all I said. I said that their project was humanly and scientifically positive, but that the law would not change under this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u71	Minister, thank you for that answer. Far from me the idea of commuting, but you will agree with me that reading the information we have, there are still a lot of similarities. Even if, in Antwerp, it is not a mere consumption in its own sense, as described in the Liège project, there are still people who consume and find themselves in a protected space. Far be it from me to challenge this structure. I think she has a perfect place. It is true that this is somewhat ambiguous with regard to the treatment of polytoxicomanes. I understand that you are, on behalf of your party, perhaps, or, in any case, as Minister of Health, in favour of the project as presented by the authorities of Liège. Like you, I think this addresses a major problem both in terms of public health for the people concerned and in terms of public space management. There is therefore a need to move forward in this area. I also hear that government colleagues must be convinced. I know Mr. Demeyer is working on it. In any case, we will not be able to put our heads in a bag forever and pretend that the phenomenon does not exist. If that were the case, people would be left in immense distress to put themselves in danger and, in so doing, to endanger others.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u72	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the Committee on Health will be able to deliver its opinion on this bill to the Committee on Justice before the holidays. And I hope that the majority will accept this favourable opinion. Questions Nos 25579 and 25659 of Mr Delizée are deferred. Question No 25606 by Mrs Muylle is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u73	Madam Chair, Minister, on Monday, May 28, the INAMI Insurance Committee announced that the requirement to switch to electronic prescription on June 1, 2018 was finally postponed, on the grounds that the draft was still to be considered by the House. In addition, an enforcement order will then have to be made to determine its entry into force and exceptions. Madam Minister, why did you announce this date when you were not at the point legally speaking? Why have you put so much pressure on the doctors who, on several occasions, have expressed their concerns to you that they will finally not be in order of march on the date announced? Could you tell us what the exceptions are? What will happen to occasional prescribers? A new version of the PARIS Internet app was to be made available to them by 1 June. What is it in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u74	Frédéric, the entry into force of the electronic prescription requirement was delayed because additional time was needed to take legislative initiatives. An exception existed for prescribers who reached the age of 62 on June 1. It is maintained because, in several areas, many doctors were too old. I hope, however, that these practitioners will be aware - because 62 years are not so old - that they will also be able to take ad hoc training. Software adaptations are being developed. For occasional prescribers, the PARIS internet application is planned. In addition, a new version will be released before the end of the month, for which the installation of an e-Health certificate will no longer be necessary. The procedure will be simplified because the technology is more modern and it is no longer necessary to have an e-Health certificate. I still need identification via eID or It's drive. The aim is to have dematerialization available by mid-2019. In care, major software adaptations are not necessary. Patient identification based on reading the eID card has already been available for years. The patient will also have the opportunity to assign a prescription to a pharmacy in advance and remotely, including through the personal health viewer. In the next version of the personal health viewer, the patient will also be able to consult their prescriptions online. Recent figures on the use of the electronic prescription are as follows. In May 2018, 13,068 general practitioners prescribed electronically. In January, this figure was 10,000. This represents an increase of 20 per cent. In the case of dentists, 3,512 dentists also prescribed electronically in May, with 3,100 in January, an increase of 12%. As for hospitals, 116 used the electronic prescription for outpatient use, while in January there were 22. They caught up with the delay by multiplying the use of electronic prescriptions by five. In the case of pharmacies, 4,840 have dealt with electronic prescriptions, which is almost every pharmacy open to the public. We have, I think, made a lot of progress but unfortunately, the "aged" doctors refused, at first, to follow the movement. I do not consider them to be old, but in committee I have also received requests to take steps to prevent these doctors from withdrawing from the profession. It must be said that we have done what we promised. We still had to have an eHealth certificate. We've been looking for a solution. That will no longer be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u75	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u76	Question No 25651 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u77	Hoping to receive the answer quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u78	Indeed, hoping to receive it quickly. Is it going to pass it on?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u79	Madam Minister, several Members of Parliament have received the signal that the operation of the Order of Veterinarians is not working properly. I saw that it was a group email to a lot of MEPs. Several problems have been mentioned, including the illegal removal of democratically elected members. One even speaks of a gray culture. Furthermore, in certain cases, the rights of accused veterinarians are violated. There are also judgments of the Joint Board of Appeal of the Order of Veterinarians and of the Council of State. I know that no minister really has any real hierarchical competence with regard to the order. However, I have a few questions for you. Do you know of any complaints received by your cabinet? I just saw your associate nod, so I suspect so. Have any complaints been received in the cabinet of Minister Geens? Do you think those complaints are well founded? Why is that? Why is that? Are you going to take steps, or have you already taken steps? Do you believe that the functioning of the Order of Veterinarians is good at the moment? What can you do about the problems identified? Do you believe that the operation of the Order of Veterinarians should be modified?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u80	Mrs Dedry, I answered a question from Mrs Van Camp not so long ago. This was done at the committee meeting on 24 April. You will read in the report that I am aware of the difficult relations within the Dutch-speaking Regional Council of the Order. I have been in contact with my colleagues in the field of justice and agriculture. They are also concerned about this situation. The responsibilities and tasks of the Order and its councils are laid down by law. The establishment and enforcement of the deontological rules are mainly internal matters of the Order. The Order also guarantees the correct registration of veterinarians and veterinary legal persons in the lists of the Order. This registration is a legal condition for the exercise of veterinary medicine and for the recognition of veterinarians who are involved in the control of regulated diseases. The Supreme Court gives formal advice on legislation relating to the practice of veterinary medicine. I haven't received any complaints about the way the Order carries out this task. The personal relations between the Supreme Court and the Dutch-speaking Regional Council, and in that latter council itself, are another matter. In this respect, the problem of a breach of trust arises. The restoration of this confidence can only be achieved through dialogue. I also said this to Mrs Van Camp. We cannot create this dialogue in their place. I hope they get out on their own. I was in Tallinn before the WHO. When I got off the plane, I got the message that there are four thousand vets there, including many Belgians. They would have liked to have invited me. However, I was already back in Zaventem when I got the message on Twitter. I am willing to play a role in this, but the problems they have are really internal. We cannot do anything about this from the point of view of policy. It's about people who can't go through the same door anymore. Who's right? If your neighbors are arguing, you can't know who's responsible. It is very difficult to intervene in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u81	Madam Secretary, I know you have no police authority in this matter, but you end with an important sentence. When neighbors fight, there's the Justice of the Peace. Perhaps you could take on the role of peace judge to intercede. It's good that they're asking to see you. Maybe you can make things easier, because if I put all the e-mails together, it's gonna end in the spigates, right? At least I hear you say you want to play your part. Perhaps you could be a judge of peace in this neighborly quarrel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u82	Question No 25683 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question. Mrs Van Hoof requested the postponement of her question No 25694. Questions No 25707 by Mrs Dierick, No 25738 by Mr Dallemagne and No 25748 by Mrs Smaers are transformed into written questions. Mr Piedboeuf asked for the postponement of his question No 25760. Mr Flahaux asked that his question No. 25771 be transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u83	Madam Secretary, the GPs are calling the alarm bell, and that's not the first time. For example, the general practitioners of the guard station Oost-Brabant threaten to close their posts in the Justus Lipsiusstraat in Leuven. The guard station, which has 300 doctors, reaches 210 000 inhabitants from the region and another 50 000 students and has been operating for years on RIZIV grants intended for 100 000 inhabitants and 100 doctors. The subsidies are therefore not proportionate. The doctors indicate that they are tired of paying for the structural costs themselves. You indicated that you were working on a regulatory framework to standardise the operation, availability and accessibility of GPs. Funding would also be looked at. The new model was expected in the course of last year. In Leuven and surroundings there is a bit of fear that it will be too late for the guard station of East Brabant. A closure would have negative consequences for patients, who will have to call on the doctor of watch, who will also be able to work much less efficiently. There is also a fear that the emergency services of hospitals will be put under great pressure. Do you foresee a solution for the GPs in East Brabant and for other similar posts in the short term? What measures can you take? What are the measures you will take in the new model, which you have announced? Can you lift a tip of the veil, including with regard to the new financing? Are the measures based on the recommendations in Möbius' audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u84	Mrs Jiroflée, I gave a detailed answer at the committee meeting on 23 May to questions from Mrs Dedry and Mr Piedboeuf, among others. I have that answer with me, because it answers some of your questions. Then there is the specific case of the East Brabant guard station in the Justus Lipsiusstraat in Leuven. It's a little bizarre. You submitted that question to the Chamber on 29 May. However, the letter containing the questions to the RIZIV did not arrive until 8 June. That letter is being looked at there and we are looking at what is to be done, but I cannot anticipate it. I can only see that you have submitted the question much earlier than the letter, which was delivered not by carrier, but by post.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u85	Madam Minister, I seem to have missed the fact that a number of colleagues had already asked a question about this, otherwise I would have naturally joined them. I was told that the letter would leave at the same time, but apparently something went wrong. I will look at the answers you gave earlier and ask a follow-up question shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u86	Madam Secretary, patients with neuromuscular disease can be found in the eight recognised NMRCs in Belgium. The centers are recognized by the RIZIV and guarantee individuals with neuromuscular disease quality care in terms of diagnosis, treatment and guidance. The care is realised by a team of experts from all required disciplines. This approach has enormous benefits for patients, because they do not have to look for different experts themselves, because the team is experienced in the different conditions and complications that can occur and because the team succeeds the whole of the condition better and, if necessary, can often react much faster. In addition, hospital arrangements can be more grouped together. The importance of the NMRCs cannot be stressed enough in terms of health but also in terms of the quality of life of the most vulnerable. In recent years, the cost of NMRC debt has increased. On the basis of figures from 2015 and 2016, this represents an increase of 16%. The reason is that patients are sent more and more quickly to the NMRCs, to get better follow-up and treatments. This growth is expected to continue to rise. However, significant savings on the NMRC's budget have been announced. In the future, therefore, much more patients will have to be helped with less money. As a result of the planned savings, the NMRCs fear, on the one hand, that services will deteriorate for the specific target group and, on the other hand, that they will have to charge patients higher rates to compensate for the loss of income. In both cases, these very vulnerable people are the victims of this unilateral decision. Madam Secretary, what amounts are we talking about? How much are the savings? What have the NMRCs been getting so far? What budget will they have to work with in the future? I understand that several patient organisations have agreed on the question of revising the measure. Will you talk to them or have you already talked to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u87	Mrs Jiroflée, first of all, I agree that the neuromuscular reference centres are very important for those suffering from neuromuscular disease. There is therefore no question at all of achieving significant savings at these centres. As of 1 January 2018, the annual accounts for the follow-up of a neuromuscular patient by the neuromuscular reference centres have been slightly reduced under certain conditions, from EUR 1 567 to EUR 1 538, i.e. a reduction of EUR 29 per year. In 2017, 4 262 flats were reimbursed. As a result, the reduction in prices means a reduction of EUR 124 000 on an annual basis, while total expenditure amounted to EUR 6 634 000. The price reduction was part of a number of measures taken to respect the budgetary objective for medical care insurance in 2018. The fact that a small saving has also been made in the neuromuscular reference centres is due to the need for a review of the current funding of the neuromuscular reference centres. They are financed on the basis of an agreement with the RIZIV, which was concluded in 1998 and has never really been revised since then. It is therefore no longer adapted to current realities. For example, the agreement envisaged a relatively low number of patients per reference centre in 1998. The agreement only sets a minimum of 50 patients per center and took into account that in practice some might not reach that number. Today, on average, a reference centre succeeds more than 500 patients, each of whom can be charged a year's fee. It is clear that a centre with 500 patients can work differently and can be financed differently than a centre with 50 patients. At the time, it was a concern that each centre could have a half-time secretariat. Therefore, a half-time secretarial function per 50 patients was funded. However, a centre with 500 patients does not require five full-time secretarial functions. Such anomalies in funding are also recognised by the reference centres themselves. In addition to sixteen hours of secretarial work per patient, the present year's fee also covers four hours of doctor's work and thirteen hours of work by another care provider, namely a nurse, an ergotherapist, a physiotherapist, a psychologist, a dietician or a social worker. However, in order to be able to charge a year's fee for a patient belonging to the target group, a patient must have only two hours of guidance from the team members who are not doctors. The doctors themselves may charge for their interventions by means of the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind. The fee provided for in the annual fee for doctors is intended for the medical management of the reference centre. All the doctor's fees are gonna be right on top of that. The fact that a year's fee can already be charged on the basis of two hours of accompaniment, but that it compensates for much more hours, should be reviewed. Of course, patients who receive little guidance may be compensated by patients who receive more guidance than they are reimbursed through the year-for-year, but this has not been demonstrated by the reference centres so far. There is evidence that for many patients only the minimal guidance is realised. The findings of the insurance institutions' advisory doctors, on the basis of the requests from patients they receive, show that many patients in the neuromuscular reference centres have a rather limited need for care, which reinforces the impression that only limited care is provided to a significant proportion of the patients for whom a year's fee may be charged. The current agreement is therefore too vague about the overall size of the team that a reference centre should have. The doctors of the reference centres claim that the hospital directories are averse to a significant proportion of the revenues of the reference centres for purposes other than those for which the resources of the agreement are intended. Because the current agreement is too vague in this respect, the hospital directories have this possibility. That is what we must do. So there is not one good reason, but there are several to revise the provisions of the current agreement. Within the RIZIV, the College of Doctors-Directors is primarily responsible for that review. The aim of the College is to use the resources made available only for those for whom they are intended, in other words for neuromuscular patients. In the first instance, it is also up to the College to discuss the future agreement with patient organisations. The patient organisations are also invited to share their own concerns with the RIZIV. I hope that in this way we will obtain funding in which the money given in the agreement really goes only to those people for whom it is intended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u88	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I can understand that a system no longer meets if it grows and that it needs to look at funding in a different way. I have no problem with things being revisited, but since more people are being forwarded, this sector is a bit out of place. There should be consultation with patient organisations where their expectations and concerns are listened to. I hope that the College of Doctors-Directors will organise this consultation. I would also urge you to ensure that this is done. This is undoubtedly a dossier to which we shall return.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u89	Minister, in the area of liver transplantation, the shortage of post-mortem donors has stimulated living donation programs. The problem is important since many patients are on waiting lists. They are waiting for many months because of the severe shortage despite all the efforts made through campaigns to promote organ donation. Singularly, the waiting time for children and adult patients of small weight (especially less than 50 kg), for example for patients with primitive biliary cirrhosis, is excessively long, since some remain more than a year on the waiting list. I have the figures that I will not repeat here today. In practice, the donation of the left lobe to a paediatric recipient is relatively simple surgically with a very low risk to the donor. It is quite different for the donation of the right liver to the benefit of an adult recipient. An alternative is the sharing of the liver post mortem (known as split liver), a method validated but apparently little used in Belgium, according to my information. The scientific literature shows that the living donation of the left liver to a paediatric recipient is inversely correlated with the practice of liver sharing taken after mortem. However, ethically, it seems to me that the use of living donation is only legitimate if the possibilities of sharing the liver post mortem are fully exploited. Minister, do you also think that the use of living donation is legitimate only if the possibilities of sharing the liver post mortem are fully exploited? Could you tell us about the institutions that currently practice post mortem liver sharing in Belgium? Don't you think it is essential to take initiatives to encourage this practice of split live in Belgium? Is this not all the more necessary in view of the number of patients, including children, young adults and adults, with advanced cholestatic cirrhosis, who could benefit from it and receive a transplant even faster than today. Thank you for your answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u90	Mrs Fonck, you know the 1986 law on organ transplants. The use of living donation can only take place if no possibility is offered by post-mortem transplantation. In addition, the Belgian Transplantation Centre played an important role in the development of the liver lobes transplant technique, split. At the global level, UCL was among the first hospitals to practice it. Currently, all Belgian centres are involved in the provision of liver lobes collected after mortem and transplants are carried out mainly by UCL, Erasmus and Ghent. Some factors are a brake on the practice of this technique. In order to be able to practice it, it is necessary to have a very high quality organ. However, since the average age of donors in Belgium tends to increase, this is also partly accompanied by a decrease in the quality of the organs taken. In addition, high quality organs are given priority to patients in urgent need. As these patients are more seriously ill, they are generally not in a state of health that allows them to transplant only part of the liver. For its part, Eurotransplant has also laid down rules to encourage the sharing of the liver. For donors under 50 years of age and over 50 kilos, recipients are asked if they intend to share the liver. Finally, in Belgium, transplant centres regularly organise training in the technique of liver sharing so that surgeons can become familiar with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic926x.u91	Minister, thank you for your answers. The framework of the 1986 Act must of course apply. But according to my information, obviously, this is a very small number of cases per year. There have been no more than ten cases per year in recent years. Liver sharing can allow the transplant of two adults of small weight, an adult and a child or an adult and a teenager. In doing so, we multiply the benefit of the gift. Different techniques exist. I know there are training courses, but if I insist so much on you, it's because I really want to make you aware of this kind of practice. Indeed, one of the reasons why this is not practiced is that it requires a very important surgical expertise, but also a particular management. You have to know that it takes three to four hours more than a simple plugin – if I may say so – one for one. There is also a particular logistics in terms of management of the operating area, in terms of equipment, etc. In my view, it might be worth providing for a specific refund with a specific nomenclature that can really boost this liver-sharing practice that would be very beneficial to patients. May I say here that in 2017, four out of nine children and 39 out of 171 adults had been waiting for a liver transplant for more than a year. For these patients, this would drastically reduce waiting time. I would therefore like to ask you to take initiatives in favour of this practice, including that relating to a specific refund.
