ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u1	Mr Nollet, before giving you the floor, I note that you have two questions on our agenda, but I assume that their content is the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u2	They do have the same content.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u3	Minister, in our first discussion on this subject on April 25, you made it clear to me that the fourth nuclear liability inventory report was still being analysed by Minister Kris Peeters with whom you share the responsibility. At the meeting on 23 May, you said that there was a computer problem on Parliament's server so that you would not reply when on 25 April I warned you that I would come back to you. Today, I hope that the analysis of a document dated 1 January – we are at the beginning of June – is complete. Minister, ONDRAF has released its fourth five-year report on the inventory of nuclear liabilities covering the period 2013-2017. On reading this report, it is clear that the costs are exploding and that the provisions are not sufficiently available. I would therefore like to ask you about the various elements of the report, namely the 25 % increase in the bill for nuclear waste, which now amounts to 15.1 billion; the insistence of ONDRAF that these new amounts do not cover the many remaining uncertainties in the costing of the geological repository and give an overly optimistic view of the sufficiency of nuclear costs (cf. p. 45 of the report); the use of non-realistic assumptions (cf. p. 38 of the report). It is indeed a question of 200 metres of depth, when we know that at least 400 metres are necessary and that, everywhere else in the world, it is much more. It is also a question of 40 years, etc., so a whole series of assumptions that are not realistic. I would also like you to take stock of the timetable for the follow-up of the many important recommendations that have not been followed up in the 2008-2012 report and which have been reiterated in the present report with amplified. I am thinking in particular of accounting provisions. Indeed, there is a question of accounting provisions when the availability would, as it should be, be greater if the money were to be paid into a fund. ONDRAF makes proposals in this regard. ONDRAF also wondered what would happen if Electrabel lost its status as an operator. We know it's a risk. You followed the news like me. Like me, you have heard HSBC's statements on stock exchanges, in connection with the latest information on ENGIE-Electrabel released this morning. A warning to the market regarding the situation of Electrabel and ENGIE in particular. You did well to refuse their proposal to bring the Belgian State into ownership – this is another issue that we will come back to earlier, but it is not unrelated to the fact that the company could lose its status as an operator. What if the business of a private company is terminated? This is typically the case with Electrabel, the reduction in the percentage of provisions that can be lent internally to operators; the introduction of a general obligation to provide sufficient provisions, etc. All of these recommendations date from 2008-2012 and have not been implemented. I would also like to highlight the follow-up to be given to the following recommendations, i.e. those on page 54: to provide a detailed estimate of costs in case of delayed dismantling; to analyse the risk of additional costs due to delay. I would also like to hear from you that the margins of uncertainty may well not cover costs, particularly for the storage project. It's on page 245. Finally, the fear of the President of the CPN (Commission on Nuclear Provisions) that data would not be available in time for next year's triennial review. This is an extremely important point raised by the newspaper L'Echo on 13 March. That, minister, is a series of points on which I would like to question you and hear your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u4	As far as point 1 is concerned, you are talking about the costs that are exploding and the provisions that you think are insufficiently available. Your first question concerns the 25 per cent increase in the bill for nuclear waste, which now amounts to 15.1 billion. I have a small picture in front of me that sums up all the costs. As you know, there are different classes of costs and waste, which deserve special attention because they are different in nature. This table therefore summarizes the estimated nuclear cost for the period 2013-2017 according to ONDRAF's 4th inventory report, the amounts being expressed in euros on a 2015 basis and the percentage increase indicating the increases compared to the previous period from 2008 to 2012. The largest waste class concerns Doel and Tihange, on the one hand, and other sites such as BP, IRE, SCK•CEN, etc. For Doel and Tihange, the costs are as follows, expressed in EUR million on a 2015 basis: EUR 10 328 million with an increase of 27%, broken down as follows: EUR 4 925 million for spent fuel management, i.e. an increase of 14%; EUR 5403 million for decommissioning, i.e. decommissioning, i.e. a very significant increase for the dismantling of 42% for a total Class I, including SCK•CEN, IRE etc. EUR 14 800 million, which is equivalent to 98% of the total of EUR 15 000 107, to which you alluded. Of this very large and very sensitive waste class increase, there is an overall increase of 25%. But the most significant increase relates to decommissioning and dismantling. For Class II, the increase is 19 per cent; Class III: decrease by 25 per cent; for Umicore, the increase is 23 per cent. All these amounts form the total. The total cost of nuclear energy has increased by 25 per cent overall compared to the previous period. This increase is due to various reasons explained in the report and the main ones are: increase in the cost of decommissioning the Doel and Tihange sites; revision of the discount rate: + 4.2 % imposed by the CPN; increase in the amount of spent fuel per additional year of operation. Every five years, the report records the increase in spent fuel. Other reasons are the increase in the cost of managing the waste physically present on the Belgoprocess site: 292 million euros on a 2015 basis for the technical liability of Belgoprocess, + 290 million euros on a 2015 basis for the waste transferred to ONDRAF. There is also the inclusion of the cost of managing the waste physically present on the Belgoprocess site from Doel and Tihange and not included in the third inventory for an amount of + €57 million on a 2015 basis. The increase in the cost of nuclear material produced at the IRE site: + 185 million on a 2015 basis, and the bankruptcy of Best Medical Belgium for 51 million on a 2015 basis. Let me turn to your second question about ONDRAF's insistence that these new amounts do not cover the many remaining uncertainties in the costing of the geological repository and therefore give an overly optimistic view of the sufficiency of nuclear costs. On page 45, you mention uncertainty about nuclear costs, but the "overoptimistic view" referred to in the report concerns the assessment of provisions as described on page 247 and these two concepts should not be confused. In terms of geological storage of Category B and C wastes, the uncertainty is mainly due to two elements. First, the storage site(s) are not yet known. The ONDRAF has so far made its estimates on the basis of Boom clay option for landfilling as shown by its studies started in the 1980s at the SCK•CEN site. Secondly, the absence of a decision on the management of the spent fuel of our plants: reprocessing or final storage in connection with the moratorium of 22 December 1993 on reprocessing. In addition, ONDRAF generally uses an uncertainty margin of 15% for decommissioning costs, whereas for spent fuel management costs, the report does not explicitly mention value for this margin, but it should be noted that the greatest uncertainty lies, as I have just said, in the option used for management, either reprocessing or direct storage. Concerning unrealistic assumptions, e.g. 200 metres deep, 40 years of operation, etc. As indicated in the ONDRAF report on page 38, ONDRAF actually uses 40-year nuclear power plant operations as a hypothesis. If for Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1, it was decided to extend operations for 10 years, the hypothesis is realistic for other units: Doel 3 and 4, Tihange 2 and 4. For an operating period of more than 40 years, it should be noted that nuclear liabilities are increasing due to an increase in the amount of spent fuel. On the other hand, provisioning also increases, not only for spent fuel management but also for decommissioning. With regard to geological storage in Boom clay, if this option is not validated, it is not invalidated either. The hypothesis is therefore not unrealistic. Moreover, as you know, the depth specification has evolved. You called him back. As the concept is new, as the depth is different, there are other assessments that need to be done. These assessments are done as I have regular contacts with ONDRAF on these issues. As for the mixed management scenario for spent fuel: 22% reprocessing and 78% direct storage. These are the two possible options. The first option used until 1998 was suspended by the moratorium of 22 December 1993. For fuel beyond 1998, no runway is a priori abandoned and this does not necessarily constitute an unrealistic assumption. With regard to the recommendations, three types of recommendations are contained in the ONDRAF report. First, the development of a legal and regulatory framework for covering nuclear costs. Secondly, the improvement of the legal and regulatory framework of ONDRAF. Third, the decision-making of general policies at the federal level. For the first type of recommendation, i.e. the development of a legal and regulatory framework for covering nuclear costs, it is useful first of all to briefly recall the actions of the last two governments in this area. First of all, in January 2014, on the basis of the recommendations of the third report of ONDRAF, the Council of Ministers set up a legislative working group which we have already discussed extensively. We'll get back to it, of course. You know that this working group involves the administration of energy, ONDRAF and SYNATOM to establish a Community framework for the management of spent fuel for radioactive waste. The work of this working group is, as you know, still ongoing. Secondly, the complementarity between ONDRAF and AFCN within the limits of their competencies. A task force was established by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2016. And on 20 July 2017, a final report was approved by the Council of Ministers, asking the two institutions for preliminary draft laws and royal decrees for the implementation of the proposals. I should receive in the next few weeks a draft royal decree from ONDRAF. The recommendations are structured around seven points, which you know well. Establish a general obligation to establish provisions, establish a regular cost assessment mechanism, establish rules to ensure the availability of financial resources, strengthen control of cost coverage, establish mechanisms to ensure continuity of funding, improve the law of 11 April 2003, and introduce specific rules for high-activity sealed sources. Most of these recommendations were already included in previous inventory reports. I have been the first Minister of Energy since 2003 to activate the mechanisms to put these recommendations into practice. It should be made clear that these reflect the vision of ONDRAF, but that they do not necessarily have the force of law within the Legislative Working Group (LWG) and that they may be amended. The OWG has been working on these issues since 2014 and has not yet established a status of its work, while its Chair should very shortly provide me with a report in which the OWG will make proposals on the priorities to be agreed. Without going into detail, I will briefly comment on some of these points. The first point concerns the introduction of a general obligation to establish provisions. There is currently no general provision requiring operators of nuclear facilities to provide sufficient supplies. At most, we have supervisory supervision. This obligation exists, of course, for nuclear power plant operators, but it must be extended to other installations. The second point concerns the establishment of a regular cost assessment mechanism. There is currently an obligation for operators to estimate the cost of decommissioning, but monitoring of the evolution of this cost over time is not required. For nuclear power plant operators, the monitoring obligation exists, but it needs to be refined, in particular for the final decommissioning plan. It is also necessary here to generalize these principles to other installations. The strengthening of cost-coverage control has already been applied for nuclear power plants through the Commission for Nuclear Supplies (CPN), but again it has to be applied in general. We will have the opportunity to come back to this, since a bill is intended to better regulate the activities of the CNP and to ensure the existence, sufficiency and availability of nuclear supplies. With regard to the general policy decision at the federal level, two points were raised: Category B and C waste, within the framework of the national policy, and the management of spent fuel, for which a choice should be made between reprocessing and direct storage. For Category B and C waste, the principle of geological burial is acquired. There is now a very long process which requires the identification of potential storage sites, the selection of some of them and the establishment of a participatory process with the municipalities concerned, with a view to their acceptance. The technical studies will take a large number of years in view of what has already been done for the Boom clay option. Several governments will obviously be involved in this very long-term decision-making process.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u5	Minister, I am not going to bounce back on everything, especially since some elements are related to later issues. On the other hand, I would like to go back to some of the elements of your answer. The figures you give are extremely interesting and important. On the mass of 15 billion, you have clearly identified the fact that 98% belong to Class I, that is to say Doel, Tihange, IRE, the Centre for Nuclear Studies (SCK•CEN). You have highlighted, and you are right, the 42% explosion, an increase of 1.5 billion in the cost of dismantling. This percentage means that the situation is changing very quickly. I am not talking at all about the discount rate, which concerns an issue that has already been dealt with and which has been provided for: Electrabel has had to pay more in three years. We remember the timing. This issue is resolved. The increase in the cost of dismantling is surprising. I didn't expect it. However, by the end of the year I expect an increase in the cost of waste management. The two budget pockets must be distinguished. I say "end of the year", because ONDRAF has to perform a recalculation at that time. I would like to comment on this point at some length, since this is an inquiry. You say that two elements should be taken into account: one concerning the choice between reprocessing and direct storage, one concerning the type of geological layer taken into account. With regard to reprocessing and storage, I agree that no option has yet been taken. But the problem is not a budgetary one, because ONDRAF carries out both calculations and assumes the most expensive overall cost of the two. I think this is the best way to do it. I obviously have an option between the two, but no matter what, we are working here on the budgetary side. On the other hand, there is still a problem with the biological layer component. At this point, you have rightly reopened the various options. We don't want a choice, even if we don't exclude it. We do not exclude Boom clay, but it is not certain that it will be chosen. It can be other geological layers. And here, on the other hand, the ONDRAF, at this stage, retains only the numerical evaluation of Boom clay, 200 metres away. However, if we adopt the same logic as for the reprocessing versus direct storage dilemma, the ONDRAF must take the wrong box, with the most significant cost of the scenario having the greatest impact. And he's not doing it right now. I would like you to intervene so that, in the year-end evaluation of the cost, not of dismantling, because the assessment is made (+ 42%), but of waste management, you would ask ONDRAF to take the value into consideration. We have time since the deadline is at the end of the year. But you have to, ever since you said it wouldn't necessarily be Boom's clay. They have to recalculate. This will obviously again have an impact on ENGIE's accounts. That is for sure, from the moment when we take into consideration the lowest cost, corresponding to 200 meters of depth! However, this is not done anywhere in the world, in the event that the geological option is retained. All countries are below 400 metres.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u6	An evolution has already taken place in the reflections. You mentioned it earlier. We are already on a proposal from ONDRAF corresponding to 400 meters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u7	Minister, it was you who imposed it by removing the clay from Boom. But this does not yet have an impact on the price. It is on this side that I insist. According to their reflections, the depth of 200 metres cannot be taken into consideration and another one has to be chosen. Three scenarios are proposed: one, known to dig at 200 metres, the second between 200 and 600 metres and a scenario at an average of 400 metres. However, the worst box is not that one, but the one that mentions 600 meters. There is therefore a concern in their current budget evaluation. The worst box is that of depth at 600 meters and not the average scenario.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u8	I understand, but I won't argue. We are entering into the political options. I am responding to your inquiry in a technical way. I will not discuss here what the ONDRAF envisages in its interactions with the AFCN and with the operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u9	That's what you do when you talk about 400 meters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u10	I haven't answered your last question yet, but this may be the time to do so. To the extent that the CPN is awaiting a report enabling it to work in practice as required by law, we will see an assessment and reasoning by the ONDRAF by the end of the parliamentary session, that is, by 21 July. I ask, I wish, and I hope so. This will be immediately communicated to the CPN for its work. Perhaps it will then be more interesting to resume a discussion. I see what is in the air and what is the status of the technical discussion, but I do not know the current interim decision of the ONDRAF in all this reflection. The ONDRAF obviously has a lot of work to do at the same time. The new director seems to me to be extremely willing, and in the light of all that he has to do, for such long periods that it really takes a lot of expertise and exchanges with the partners to ensure that all positions are aligned in the interest of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u11	All this is true. I'm not taking a word out of what you said. But I insist that the scenario chosen be the worst scenario. This is the same logic in the other branch of the alternative between geological storage and reprocessing. I insist that this be done now and not in two or three years' time, because, as the CPN says in its report, this is now the last useful moment when we can intervene in relation to ENGIE, with the 2019 revision. After that, the deadline for the first closures will be too close and they will no longer be really producers for many years, provided that the government's choice, namely to leave nuclear power in 2025, is respected. This is the last time we can be useful here. If this is done at 400 meters and later you decide, or a subsequent government decides, that it will be 600 meters away, there will be no money in the stores. It is for this reason that I allow myself to insist so much. Since you have a commissioner or a delegate of the government (I don't know his title) at ONDRAF, I ask you to send him this signal, so that ONDRAF will work in the box. Then, if there is too much money in the provisions, it is possible to repay. It's not a problem. But if we do not collect, at the end of the year, according to the worst new figures, then we will have no opportunity to interact. I wanted to highlight this. Beyond the 42% increase on dismantling, there is this whole waste management component that is being evaluated, you are right about it. I allow myself for once to intervene before a decision is taken, and not to criticize a decision, so that you can use your influence so that we stay in a prudential framework. It's extremely important. I will come back to the question of the legislative framework later, since I have another question about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u12	Question No 25631 by Mrs Isabelle Galant will be dealt with in the Committee on Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u13	Minister, this is the logical continuation of the cost assessment. They're exploding. ENGIE, taking these elements into account, is it not organising the insolvency of Electrabel? At the plenary session on May 17, 2018, I shared with you my greatest concern about the organization by ENGIE of the insolvency of Electrabel, whose first concrete trace we had just seen was the payment of a dividend in kind of more than 1.6 billion, which was difficult to explain in terms of the balance sheet and the results of the company. The other visible trace of the organization of this insolvency is the fact that half of ENGIE's plan of divestment of 15 billion assets was carried out via Electrabel. The transformation of assets into cash makes it easier to transfer to the parent company, so one can fear the worst in relatively short time. This is the Bianca plan. In response to my oral question, you announced that you had given SYNATOM an eight-day period to demonstrate that Electrabel offered sufficient guarantees to meet its borrower obligations and its legal obligations as a debtor of nuclear provisions related to the application of the polluter-pays principle. My fears were reinforced by the reading of the newspaper L'Echo of 18 May, which confirms that there was indeed a complete counting plan of Electrabel – the Bianca plan – allowing ENGIE to completely protect itself from the "risk" Electrabel and from the inevitable upward revision of the provisions for the management of the dismantling of nuclear power plants and nuclear waste, an increase announced as substantial by you in plenary session on 17 May. All this is to be placed in a context in which the year 2017 ends in red for ENGIE. Indeed, the company had to draw 735 million euros from the reserve to clear in particular an accounting loss of 290 million euros. This is the third consecutive deficit year. Now that the eight-day deadline has largely expired, I would like to receive a copy of your letter and, above all, of SYNATOM's reply. I would also like, in addition to the copy you will send us, to question you on the following points. What guarantees has SYNATOM given you, particularly with regard to own funds, to meet both its obligations as borrower and its legal obligations as debtor of nuclear supplies? What response has SYNATOM provided to your question as to whether the company intends to adjust the level of loans granted? Do you intend to ask for additional guarantees on these loans or develop other actions to further secure the provisions? How many independent directors does SYNATOM have? Since when has SYNATOM been in non-compliance with the Buysse code on this point? What further improvements in governance is this company proposing? Madam Minister, I would like to add a question, but it is related to these proposed amendments and to what you have mentioned in the press. So it will not be a surprise for you, but the text of my question has evolved somewhat. Has ENGIE proposed to Belgium, as you have stated, that it should enter capital or, as Mr Vantroyen claims, has it not proposed? You say it was, but he says it wasn't. I'd like to know what's going on, whether it was a fake news or not? What is your political analysis of all the answers to questions 1, 2, 4 and 5? What do you intend to implement? What have been the actions of your representatives in SYNATOM since you took office? We didn't talk very much about them, but the government has a golden share, so your representatives can act and my question is what they've done. What is Electrabel's current rating? What is the proportion of the provisions which, having regard to the latter, can be lent internally to the group? What is the share that is currently being loaned internally to the group? Finally, in the face of risks, do you intend to put in place a cascading accountability mechanism to ensure that, in the event of the failure of Electrabel, the ENGIE parent company will be able to meet current and future commitments, particularly in terms of bailout of the nuclear supply fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u14	Mr President, Minister, my questions go a little in the same direction as those of Mr Nollet, and they also go a little bit about earlier questions. In this committee, but also in the plenary and in the press, questions have been asked for years about the adequacy of nuclear commissions. There is the project Bianca, where ENGIE tries to get rid of Electrabel. If we read and hear this, that is actually the project Bianca, to explain it very briefly. There is also the distribution of dividends from Electrabel to ENGIE, which amounted to no less than EUR 1.6 billion last year. The French are clearly picking up their noses for Electrabel's valuable assets. They are in danger of becoming an empty box at the moment when the accounts for decommissioning nuclear power stations fall into the bus. But of course there are also questions about the level of the commissions themselves. Even Mr Jean-Paul Minon, former director of the NIRAS, said that the deep storage could cost two or three times what is foreseen today. So we are not only not sure about the availability, but also not at all sure about the adequacy of these nuclear commissions. However, the original plan was that the nuclear power plants would run for 30 years, twenty years for depreciation and ten years for commissioning. We are now in 2018 and we are not sure about anything anymore. However, I can assure you that this government is not responding to the public's concerns at all. Since 2014, a working group has been working to further strengthen the legal framework around SYNATOM. At the beginning of this year there would have been a concrete proposal, which you are currently studying. Madam Secretary, can you clarify the timing of this process? On what date were the recommendations forwarded to you? By what date will you submit your own proposal to the Council of Ministers? On what date can we expect a legislative amendment from you? Given the speed at which Electrabel is likely to be sucked out, it seems crucial to me to do so before the summer recess. This is one of the deadlines which, as far as I am concerned, is lacking in the famous slides of the Energy Pact. Secondly, instead of the legal road, you and the Prime Minister chose to talk to Electrabel. Talking is always good, but talking about commitments that were made a long time ago, I find a little weird. Madam Secretary, what came out of that conversation? What guarantees did Electrabel give you? What guarantees did you in turn give Electrabel? Thirdly, when can we expect the new calculation of the increase in commissions? At the moment, we are still assuming a scenario in which the nuclear fuel used will be stored two hundred metres below ground. If we store our waste much deeper, it will cost billions more. Can the NRAS not calculate different scenarios based on the most expensive scenario and provide the commissions on that basis? If it turns out to be less, then the too much money collected can still be repaid. Finally, is there also a scenario in which the savings fund for nuclear liabilities is transferred to the government? I have just heard your answer to the previous questions. I repeat some of those questions in this oral question, so you have already given some answers. However, I also had to leave the sitting. You do not need to repeat the answers you have already given, as I will read them in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u15	Madam and honourable Members, I have already had the opportunity to answer your questions here, in plenary or at other times. Mrs Temmerman, since my text was prepared to respond to Mr Nollet's inquiry and since your question came to us after 11 a.m., my point will be of a general nature. I have previously told you that I wrote to SYNATOM to ask it first of all to clarify whether the foundation of Electrabel, in particular in terms of equity, was sufficient, both to meet its obligations as a borrower and to meet its obligations as a debtor of provisions. The question then was whether it intended to request additional guarantees from the loan, or to adjust the level of the loan, or to take additional initiatives. These are, in short, the questions that I asked and which you obviously take back to your own account in your question and inquiry. Finally, I used this letter to insist on an ancillary requirement which I have been expressing in SYNATOM, through my representative, for some time, not to say: a certain time. I hope that independent directors will be proposed to the General Assembly, which must be held shortly. SYNATOM answered me well by letter dated 24 May, therefore within the time limit, signed by its president and managing director. In summary, I was told that the company understood my legitimate concern to ensure that Electrabel's perimeter was sufficient to meet its obligations to SYNATOM. Secondly, I was confirmed that it complied with the legal and treaty provisions of the Act of 11 April 2003 and, in particular, that it was possible to lend the equivalent of nuclear provisions up to 75 per cent, depending on the evolution of the credit quality of the nuclear operator. Then SYNATOM stressed the supervisory role of the Commission for Nuclear Provisions and indicated that it was responsible for transmitting annually to the Commission the amount of the provisions, the valuation of the corresponding assets, the calculation of the compensation to which Electrabel is liable to SYNATOM, the expenditure for the next three years, the general orientation of its investment policy, the elements for monitoring the solvency of Electrabel, its credit rating and its debt ratio established quarterly in relation to its own funds. SYNATOM also told me that it had scrupulously complied with all its obligations. It also noted that it would take all measures to comply with all the legal and treaty provisions of the Act of 11 April 2003, as well as the prudential measures imposed by the CPN, and that, finally, it would take the necessary measures to amend its Board of Directors to include independent directors. To answer your questions, these are the answers that SYNATOM has given me. I have here the reply letter that I can of course communicate to you. In short, SYNATOM tells me that everything is fine and that it respects the legal framework. Apart from the positive response to the governance measure relating to independent directors, I do not find in this reply letter or any response indicating that further actions are being taken by SYNATOM. To be complete, I have sent SYNATOM's reply to the Committee on Nuclear Supplies for information and opinion. You are also asking me questions about the independent directors and the Buysse Code, namely how many independent directors it is composed. The answer is none today. To my knowledge, since 2003, there has never been one. The first version of the Buysse Code dates, I think, and unless I am mistaken, from September 2005. It seems useful to me to mention some elements of this Buysse Code. First of all, the concept of non-compliance should be relativised. The full title of the Buysse Code, which I thank you for and which is visible on the Internet, does not as such constitute an obligation. You know that. He doesn't have the force of law. Nevertheless, it has been established by the enterprises for the enterprises. It's a soft law principle. It contains a series of interesting recommendations on their governance. The authors point out: "The aim of this code is to provide companies with practical guidance and practical advice that can contribute to the development of their business. These are recommendations that any entrepreneur can implement at his or her own discretion, in full flexibility and to the extent of his or her business." With regard to the issue of independent or external directors, I quote directly from Article 5.7 of the Buysse III Code on this subject: "In unlisted companies, it is equally recommended to appoint external directors. Ideally, any company will have several external administrators. However, account must always be taken of the size, structure and development phase of the enterprise. External directors are those who do not belong to management or control ownership. In most cases, directors who meet this definition may be considered independent, but it is possible, however, that their relations with management or shareholders may give rise to doubts. Although the independence of external directors is to be advised, it should be stressed that, especially in SMEs, their competence is more important than their independence in the strict sense. What is crucial is their objective authority, which is based on their competence and the good relationship with the management of the company. External directors: take an objective and critical look at the company; give impartial advice; form a sounding board for the entrepreneur; increase discipline and responsibility, particularly in relation to reporting; can play an important role in crisis situations; share their network and relationships with the company; ensure the experience and transmission of knowledge." I'll finish with the quote. It feels like it's a generic description. However, it seems to me strongly adapted in the head of SYNATOM, which is why I have read it to you. An external administrator's view may avoid conflicts of interest and may facilitate SYNATOM's intrinsic mission, not that of any of its shareholders. Governance is also a concept that has evolved significantly over the last ten to twenty years, first in listed companies, then unlisted companies, in the public sphere, also in non-market and non-profit organisations. We must pay full attention to this, which I have done through my representative for about two years, to insist and finally get that answer. You therefore understand my will to change things. The importance of these external administrators must also be relativized. It is therefore necessary to nuance things by saying that it is a complementary action among others that I explore and implement. And in this context, for my part, as I said to you, my priority remains the improvement of the legal framework, that is, the draft bill proposed to me by the Nuclear Supplies Commission. You're talking about Bianca or reorganisation of companies active in the liberalized energy professions. As I have already told you, my main focus in this context is on provisions, and improving the mechanisms put in place by Secretary of State Deleuze in the period 1999-2003, as reflected in the Act of 11 April 2003, which may reduce the possibility of a mechanism for the postponement of undue burdens on future generations. In fact, speaking of the Bianca project, it has already been at least two years since, and since then, the project which is constantly evolving (and which I don't know where it will end) has already had at least one name other than "Bianca". As regards provisions in general,...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u16	What name?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u17	I forgot it. I'll try to find out, and if I find out, I'll tell you. With regard to provisions in general, I have already had the opportunity to inform you of my approach. I will repeat it in detail. With regard to the presentation of nuclear liabilities, mechanisms exist and have been put in place by Mr Deleuze, in his time, and by others before him. These mechanisms mainly concern nuclear power plants, normal end-of-life cases - not cases of reorganization or early cessation - and provisioning. As regards the mechanism of the law of 11 April 2003, still several years later, your political group, Mr Nollet, presented this mechanism as a major step forward by adding that it was adapted to its objective of the time, although provisions already existed since 1985 in the regulated context of electricity without a legal framework. So there was already a proactive willingness on the part of the company to provide. That must be recalled. It is for this reason that you were right to say that the term "insolvency organization" was perhaps a little strong. Indeed, I agree with you that, in this term, there is a fraudulent notion that does not exist in this case. In any case, so far, and in the context of the contacts that the Prime Minister's office and I have with the operators, we do not see - I would like to stress this - any kind of attitude of this kind. My line is to change these mechanisms in relation to a context that has changed - necessarily since 2003, a lot has changed - first to target nuclear facilities other than nuclear power plants - I am thinking here, of course, of Class II and III facilities; secondly, to consider mechanisms to improve resilience to other end-of-life or hazard situations; thirdly, given the release of nuclear power in 2025, to change the mechanism for feeding to the particular context of the use of provisions for this purpose. In a general development, I am then of course aiming to ensure that the organisations planned for this purpose function at best, in an expert and specialized manner, and carry out their mission regardless of the time period during which they must carry out it. I therefore aim to ensure that the organisation responsible for ensuring the appropriate provisions, namely SYNATOM, functions at best and that the organisation responsible for ensuring prudential supervision, our gendarme in this area, the CNP, functions at best and has the appropriate instruments and means. Therefore, this means revising, reforming, improving, improving and modernizing the provisions law introduced in 2003. This law is fifteen years old. The CPN has been working there for several months, regardless of any Bianca or other projects. In 15 years, there has been a lot of experience and work that she can take up, such as the 2006 European Recommendation, the 2011 Round Table, the 2011 European Waste Directive, and developments in other countries (Switzerland, France, Germany, Finland, Sweden, the United Kingdom) on which we have already had an opportunity to exchange information. As I told you in plenary, I intend to table my draft bill, which will strengthen the legal means and powers of the NPC and, beyond the complementary requests for governance that I make to SYNATOM, concerning the Buysse Code. The question of a cascading accountability mechanism is an option that has already been used, for example, in France and Germany. However, I prefer to work step by step. My priority is the draft NPC legislation that has been studied for several months by NPC experts and the mandated law office. This is my priority and these are the instruments needed directly today. The issue of setting priorities correctly is also important. As I also told you in plenary, with regard to the provisions on SYNATOM's liability and prudential supervision and the action of the CPN, they increased significantly by more than 3 billion from EUR 7.6 billion to EUR 11 billion at the end of this year. The next re-evaluation of these provisions is likely to lead – I am convinced – to a further significant increase and a further significant step in the future, following the re-evaluations of the ONDRAF that we expect in relation to the geological storage project. I would like to take this opportunity to return to our discussion in plenary to thank you for some of your encouraging or positive comments on this subject. In this respect, I can stress very rarely, but I should like to stress, the usefulness of our constructive exchanges in this area. You then ask me more specifically the question of the actions of my representatives on the board of directors of SYNATOM. My two representatives perform their duties in accordance with the Royal Decree of 10 June 1994 establishing for the benefit of the State a specific action by SYNATOM. Section 3 of the Order provides that the specific action confers on the Minister of Energy the right to appoint two federal government representatives to the Board of Directors. They shall sit there with an advisory voice. The same article provides that they may appeal to the Minister against any decision of the Board of Directors which they consider to be contrary to the country's energy policy guidelines, including the Government's objectives for the country's energy supply, and the adequacy of the provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and the management of fissile material irradiated at such nuclear power plants. This has not happened since October 2014. Approximately five boards of directors are held annually. In addition to their participation in the Board of Directors, they also provide me with relevant advice and advice on the functions of SYNATOM. They have already alerted me, and this was noted at the 2011 round table. The aim was then to insist on the usefulness for the actors provided for in the various instruments of the State on this subject – I am thinking of representatives on the board of directors of SYNATOM, the CPN, the ONDRAF and the competent minister – to be able to communicate and act together in the best interests of the State. These terms of office of representatives shall not be remunerated. I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their involvement. If I come back at the beginning of my speech, you might ask me why there are independent directors when representatives exist. As I explained, government officials monitor the government's interest through an advisory presence and a power of appeal. On the other hand, the external or independent directors have a real responsibility and a mission of administration in the interest of society, a power of action therefore, making them fundamental elements, playing a very different role. Let me turn to your question about Electrabel's credit rating. He is currently from Baa1, with a stable perspective. The proportion of provisions that can be lent is 75%. As of March 1, 2018, SYNATOM's loan level to Electrabel was 73.7%. The CPN, whose mission is to verify these parameters on a quarterly basis, has not alerted me to any specific problems related to this issue. I conclude on this important technical question, which is also partly reflected in SYNATOM's written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed answer and the extremely positive tone of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u19	Mr President, you are right to stress this constructive aspect. I also agree with that view because we are here preparing extremely important issues and there is no reason why I should object when we are merely preparing the decisions that will have to be taken. Minister, with respect to the directions, it is clear that the context has changed from 2003. You're right. 2003 was only a first step. There was nothing until 2003. But today, 15 years later, the risks have only increased. Hence the need for a strengthened legal framework. I support you. Our only point of divergence is that this group was launched in 2014. We're in 2018, and he still hasn't produced a report. This raises a lot of questions about the capacity it still has to produce, in good time, proposals so that you can come here to Parliament to strengthen the legislative framework. So think about another option to move forward because I have concerns about it. But everyone says that there is an urgent need to consolidate. The CPN and the ONDRAF say so. You're saying it. I'm saying it. We really need to move on. I come to the overriding point, although your answer has been brief on this. I just flew over SYNATOM's response. Once again, I agree with you today. There is no sufficient response on the part of the actions. On the independent director side, it can be said that it will be done. It is regrettable that this has not been done since 2005. Since 2003, it has been complicated, since the Buysse Code has been there since 2005. However, since 2005, they have not respected it, even if it is not binding. You say there can be a margin for SMEs. That's right. But we're not going to consider Electrabel an SME. Rather, it is considered to be a multinational which has an interest, even more so than others, in having such a mechanism. On that, they say they're going to update. On the other hand, on the other hand, like you, I really stay on my hunger. So you did well to ask the CPN for analysis. I will come back to you when we have the NPC's answer on this matter, but there is no answer to your legitimate requests to see clearly what answers are given. I have the same analysis as you. Let's see what the CPN is going to say, but personally, for reading it – and thank you for transmitting it to us – I have the same analysis as you. I therefore ask you to be particularly careful to keep your demands in mind. I say again: there is an urgent need. I am pleased to hear that cascade accountability is being studied. For me, that's a real lead. But it is urgent to put it in place, this or another if you think about another. You don't have to hang out anymore. The end of the legislature is near. The deadline will be very short, even if you feel that the opposition can help you strengthen the legislative framework. We will eventually be able to work on this once the texts are there. Last element: the rating. The mail actually mentions a Baa1 rating on 31 December. You said orally that this rating remained unchanged in March. Nevertheless, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is the lowest rating that still allows for a 75% loan. They are about 73%. But be careful, today HSBC lowered its advice on ENGIE value. He went from "to keep" to "to lighten". They reduced the course target to 12.80 versus 14.10. The analysts' comments explain these aspects: "ENGIE's hopes of opening its Belgian subsidiary to new investors face major obstacles". The dispatch was published. HSBC points out that "while the Belgian market represents only a negligible share of the group's profits, it concentrates around 30% of its net debt and constitutes a major source of political risk. We are concerned that ENGIE may be forced to significantly increase the level of its nuclear supplies." That is what we were saying with the previous debate, Madam Minister. In the discussion following the previous inquiry, we referred to these elements. All this makes me say that this signal sent by HSBC this morning to the markets is likely to lower the Baa1 rating. You're right to be careful. It's every quarter, and the CPN does. This will further strengthen the snowball effect, since a decline in rating implies a decline in borrowing capacity, or in any case a higher cost for borrowing, and a decrease in internal borrowing capacity, since the current rate of lending of approximately 73% on provisions will no longer be in effect. It will have to go down to 70 per cent or 65 per cent. This will depend on the level of the new rating. This reinforces the urgency of having a legal framework. We risk seeing with ENGIE what we saw in France with Areva and EDF. I can only invite you to strengthen the legal framework very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u20	I can only confirm the latter. In your answer, I haven't heard any timing in the process. Like Mr Nollet, I agree that we must move very quickly in this respect, because it threatens to drain Electrabel. I have not really heard an answer, Madam Minister, to my question about the conversation with Electrabel. What guarantees have you been given? What did you ask them? The questions on the calculations were already partly addressed in the answers to Mr Nollet's previous questions. In principle, it was possible to go directly through the legal process, but you did not choose to do so. You chose the dialogue and the conversation. Maybe that's a better option, but did you get any guarantees during that conversation? So far, I don't suppose, or else you'd have said so, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u21	Absolutely. Otherwise, I would have told you. Discussions continue. The stakes are fierce and we are very delicate in our discussions. This will not prevent me from introducing Bill CPN, which will already provide a much stricter framework for the three fundamental elements of existence, sufficiency and availability of nuclear supplies than in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u22	Okay, but you don't have a specific timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u23	For the filing of this project? [[As soon as possible.]] I'd like it done in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u24	It'd have to be done before the holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u25	Yes, I totally agree with you. This project will follow the usual route. It is in preparation and I expect the government's prior work to be completed so that it can be tabled in the Council of State and then in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u27	We know, Madam Minister, that 25 proposals were introduced on 28 February 2018, eight of which concerned "nuclear energy" to take over the name of axis 2 of the call for projects. We know that the administration's assessment and opinion were sent to you on April 27. We know that the decision to grant by Royal Order is announced in the appeal as of May 31, 2018 and that, at our exchange on May 23, 2018, you stated your intention to ensure that the government takes a position within the time limit. Above all, we remember your very clear, very firm commitment, expressed on behalf of the Government, both in committee and in plenary, not to use the means of this fund to encourage and support nuclear energy. As the 31st of May is over, I would like you to be able to inform us of the list of the projects selected, the sponsors of these projects and the amounts allocated to each of them. I would also like you to be able to present in detail each project selected in axis 2 of the call for projects: beyond the title of the project, what exactly is it intended for, what are the project promoters and what are the amounts allocated to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u28	Mr President, in this matter the government has not yet taken a position, but it will do so shortly, because this week we do not have a Council of Physical Ministers. So he'll do it soon enough and I'll be able to tell you immediately about all these projects. What I can already tell you is that I have done an intensive research, which is in this package that I have here in hand, on all the statements and exchanges that have been made about what, according to each other, should be financed from this fund. I have thus seen – but we can discuss it page by page and point by point, Mr President, if the honourable Member wishes – that at some point, you and I have not been sufficiently clear. I have always talked about "nuclear power production", or at least I heard about nuclear power production and I didn't hear, never heard, and still don't hear that money is being allocated to projects that would produce electricity or store it by a nuclear operating company and not to projects like those that take care of us (since the project offerers did not make a mistake, they did understand). I can tell you that eight projects are related to nuclear power. But they do not concern nuclear power production. They concern either a series of research or applications in waste treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u29	MYRRHA or something?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u30	No, MYRRHA is not there! These eight projects allocate funds to additional capabilities that will become reality or that are already operational, which allow us to deal more adequately with nuclear waste, for the benefit of humans in contact with these materials or with efficiency in the waste treatment chain. Therefore, there is no obstacle to the government's position on this issue. Indeed, all the means at our disposal to ensure that nuclear waste is treated as efficiently and as quickly as possible must be allocated. I will have the opportunity to speak quickly with you about the other projects and go around them, to observe why some are retained and others are not, knowing that the government must meet to discuss them. At the level of my office, we have received the analysis carried out by DG Energy, but we are still checking certain factual elements of either file in relation to the document delivered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u31	Mr President, I am not going to be able to react to the content, since we are going to wait for the decision, which is imminent. I shall put this question again at the next committee meeting. On the other hand, with regard to the rest of the Minister's intervention, I will quote from what has been very clearly said about the purpose of the Fund: "The aim is to support research and development in innovative projects, new methods of energy production, such as tidal energy production or energy storage projects." Now, you're talking about nuclear waste management here. I am sorry, minister, that is not part of our discussion. We will take the time to reread the purpose of the Fund, as you have presented it. For my part, I quoted an excerpt from the record of a plenary meeting. Next time, I will bring those of the committees as well as other documents. When you realize what has been said about the purpose of the Energy Fund, you will see that...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u32	I've got copies here!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u33	All right, I'll read them in detail. In any case, on the basis of the extract I quoted, the object concerned the production of innovative energy, not the financing of the research – necessary, of course – in waste management. It is an energy transition fund, not a waste management fund of the past. From the beginning, it is presented in this way. Now I hope that the government will not retain this focus, but will focus on other aspects. We know, indeed, that there is still room for manoeuvre to select a particular project. Above all, it is important for the government to remain faithful to the way the Fund has been presented since the beginning: the energy transition and not the management of the past. The latter is necessary, I repeat, but it is other funds that need to be solicited for this purpose, especially from Electrobel – to establish a link with a previous question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u34	Madam Minister, it was announced at the time that flow-based market coupling would be carried out because it had the important advantage of making more efficient use of transport capacity. We are reading the reality in the CREG annual report today. At times of congestion, the new system appears to be able to exchange an average of 13 % less capacity than when available transmission capacity was used. This leads to lower exchange rates and higher price differences, according to the CREG, whose consumers are the biggest losers in France, the Netherlands and Germany and Belgium. In the past, you have said that the rapid expansion of renewable energy combined with the closure of conventional controllable gas and coal power stations has regularly caused network congestion in recent years, mainly in Germany but also in us. The situation does not seem to improve for the time being. According to the CREG, the situation no longer complies with the principles of the internal electricity market. That's a hell of a verdict, isn't it? Madam Minister, what actions are currently being negotiated to rectify this situation? Does our country, together with France and the Netherlands, take the necessary actions to move Germany to tackle the problem? After all, we pay, but the problem lies in Germany. Moreover, given that additional congestion may increase as more conventional production disappears and less adjustable energy is released on the grid, what are the prospects?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u35	The introduction of flow-based market coupling in the CWE region (Central-West European region) was a milestone in the development of a regional energy market on the road to the European integrated energy market, which should benefit businesses and consumers. Since its introduction in mid-2015, it has shown complex methods of both positive and negative effects. For example, its introduction has led to a record exchange of interconnection capacity. On the other hand, the average values were indeed lower than before the introduction of the flow-based market coupling. The network operators took various actions to increase their capacity on average. Especially from the last months of 2017, the average exchange capacity will again be reached, similar to that of before the go live of the flow-based market coupling. This is, among other things, the result of the introduction of the dynamic line rating, a technique by which the Belgian transmission system operator was ahead of Elia and which allows the capacity, which is historically fixed for the whole season, to vary depending on the weather conditions. This leads to an average higher capacity. After its introduction in Belgium, this technique was also applied in France and Germany. Seasonal winter values were also increased by some German transmission system operators. In addition, coordination was stepped up in the application of the so-called remedial measures. In calculating available capacities, network operators must be prepared for all kinds of unexpected circumstances. Enhanced coordination, including the development of new IT applications for those remedial measures, will provide more opportunities for all network operators to deal with that situation. This therefore leads to higher available capacities for the market. The CWE system operators underlined that the flow-based methodology in itself works well, but that it is effective, pending structural grid reinforcements, a real challenge to control congestion. In this context, CWE system operators and regulators are examining possible adjustments to the flow-based methodology to better manage congestion in the CWE zone, mainly in Germany. Following consultations between the European Commission, the regulators and transmission system operators of the Central West Europe region, a system was also introduced at the end of April to ensure a minimum capacity of lines for international exchange. Although this has only just been introduced, its positive results on available capacity can already be seen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u36	Madam Minister, it is important that we play briefly on this issue, especially as a region enclosed by those other countries, all the more so because, when we compare in Europe, we have enormous transmission capacity in relation to our own consumption and our need for power. This will increase sharply in the coming years and it is good to invest in it. However, we must be sure that the necessary efforts are being made in the underlying grid elements. All countries are currently investing heavily in less adjustable capacity, i.e. wind and solar energy. There are fewer and less classic controllable units. It is a good thing that we are not only focusing on more renewable energy, but also on strengthening the grid elements in all those countries. This must become one of the important measures in European energy policy. Perhaps too little attention has been paid to this matter so far. If we want a lot of renewable energy in a system, we have to make sure that energy is easily interchangeable, otherwise it will be a bit of a measure for nothing. I therefore call on you to convince your colleagues that this is absolutely necessary if the energy transition is to succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u37	Minister, on April 25, I was asking you about the draft bill to consolidate the legal framework for the nuclear provisions that you have just received from the CNP. You told me that you had just begun the examination and that we would probably move on to a draft bill. I was asking you again on May 23 and, despite the month before, your answer had not changed. I assume that your examination has now been completed, at least on the proposed broad guidelines. Finally, I would like to discuss with you the substance of the CNP's proposals. Minister, what operational conclusions do you draw from this report and these proposals? Are you going to propose to the government to follow the following recommendations made by the CPN: the creation of new guarantees for each loan granted by SYNATOM and Electrabel; the obligation to inform the CPN before any change in the ownership of Electrabel; the granting of a negative and positive power of injunction by the CPN on SYNATOM; the removal of the suspensive nature of SYNATOM's appeals against the decisions of the CPN; the obligation to transmit quarterly reports on the use of the money lent by SYNATOM to Electrabel? What other proposals will you make to the government on an issue as important as it is urgent? What is your schedule of work on the file? When do you intend to seize the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u38	Mr President, in all these questions which come back regularly, I am not tired of answering you. We have just addressed this issue in my extended reply to your inquiry No. 264, including my political analysis, which I am not going to repeat here. For the rest, I had already answered your questions No 25529, in committee on 23 May – so it is only fifteen days ago! - and No 25069. I told you that the proposal still had to be the subject of the usual consultations with my government colleagues and that I had no doubt that we would soon have – after this stage of government – the pleasure of discussing it in Parliament. I understand your impatience, this subject is important, but we will have to wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u39	Minister, at least answer the question of what your schedule is! If you tell me it's imminent, I'll put my question. If you tell me it's in three weeks, I'll drop it off in three weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u40	Pre-government work is underway. I will then table the file on the government table that will make a decision. The file will then be sent to the Council of State and, after any adjustments, it will only arrive in Parliament. It is therefore very difficult to give you a precise timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u41	That would not prevent you, on the broad guidelines – and not on the articles – from telling me whether you are taking into account the five proposals I have mentioned!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u42	I already said I won't answer you. We used to do that, which doesn't mean we have to go on. I understand your impatience. But as long as the government has not voted on a text that is not easy, I will make no comment, with the aim of giving the government full latitude to vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u43	As you say, you used to take directions. The political debate must follow and it is in the logic of things, including within the government, but at least we would know where you want to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u44	I know and I understand your insistence. But I won't. I want to leave the first to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u45	Mr President, I must note that the minister does not have control over the direction she gives to her text. She won't be able to direct it! That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u46	Madam Minister, in our discussion on this subject, I was able to highlight a very worrying difference between the cost now estimated by ONDRAF of decommissioning EZB's facilities (10.3 million) and the amount of provision made by the company's officials (3.6 million). In doing so, a liability of 6.5 million has been updated! What have you implemented to ensure that the company fills this liability as quickly as possible? Should I remind you that this company, located on the Seneffe zoning, has been out of business for more than ten years? Is a second Nordion/Best Medical scandal being identified (which has been referred to the public authorities as a result of the company's bankruptcy), without any lessons being learned and, above all, without the legal framework being put in place in time and time to avoid the recurrence of this kind of scandal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u47	Mr President, I have already given you some answers to your question No 24531. In particular, I replied that while the company had interrupted its operations with respect to the production of radioisotopes from accelerators, it still maintains commercial activities. The AFCN confirms its concern with regard to the proper execution of the dismantling but also states that there is no safety problem. I'll add a few more elements. Although this concerns another question, I indicated in my answer to your question No. 25530 that the priorities of the GWG (Legislative Working Group) were, among other things, to identify and implement structural improvements to the framework, as a matter of priority for Class II and Class III facilities. On 14 December 2017, the Council of Ministers approved, at first reading, a draft royal decree amending the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 on the general regulation of the protection of the population, workers and the environment from the danger of ionizing radiation and aimed at avoiding situations which could lead to a possible passive radioactive waste and disbandment facilities, as elaborated by AFCN in collaboration with ONDRAF and proposed by my colleague, the Minister of the Interior. The press release at the time stated: "In order to avoid situations that could lead to a possible liability for radioactive waste and facilities to be dismantled, safety within existing establishments or to be authorised will be enhanced. The project can also be seen as a strengthening of the requirements vis-à-vis operators of nuclear installations with regard to the radioactive waste produced, thus contributing to the achievement of the objectives of Directive 2011/70/EURATOM, which establishes a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel." To my knowledge, this royal decree is not yet published, but I am told that it should be soon. It seems to me best to ask my colleague, the Minister of the Interior, about the progress of this draft royal decree. I have here a very interesting background note which was communicated to me by the administration, which I did not read to you, but I can do so, which concerns this company EZB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u48	Minister, I invite you to submit this document.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u49	This concludes with the proposal for a royal decree that I have just mentioned. An article of the Royal Decree states: "After an interruption of five years or earlier, where the Agency considers that the security of the establishment can no longer be guaranteed, the Agency may propose the definitive cessation of activities and the dismantling of the installations concerned pursuant to Articles 13 or 16. The decision may be accompanied by conditions which relate in particular to the period within which the request for dismantling, including the planning and detailed rules for the execution of the dismantling, must be submitted pursuant to Article 17. ONDRAF shall be informed without delay of this decision." Therefore, the entry into force of this article is obviously likely to change the situation of EZB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u50	Madam, could you make the full text available to Mr Nollet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u51	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, I thank you already for the text that you are going to transmit to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u53	It will be sent to you by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u54	Thank you, but this part was not the subject of my question. The information you provided is interesting, but my question was exclusively about the liability deficit. However, unless I am mistaken, the order to be published does not answer that question. If you tell me that this question falls within the competence of your colleague, Jambon, I will tell you that he is competent for the safety aspect that is not the subject of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u55	In the administrative context note, which is a technical response, it is marked that "the difference between the estimated cost by ONDRAF of decommissioning EZB's facilities (€10.35 million on a 2016 basis) and the height of the accounting provisions set up in its annual accounts by the company's managers (€3.94 million on a 2016 basis) is indeed quite large and constitutes a balance to be financed which, if additional measures are not taken in time, could constitute a potential liability". The potential nuclear liability assessed by ONDRAF does not take into account the potential financial impact that the resolution of the dispute between EZB and UCL could have on EZB's nuclear costs. It should be noted that the amount of 3.94 million corresponds to an accounting provision which may not be available. EZB's provisions are consistent with nuclear costs as estimated by EZB. I said it the last time, it's nothing new. Note that EZB has held discussions with the tax administration to exempt all or part of the provisions from tax. The tax administration has rejected the provisioning mechanism as set up by EZB - there is obviously a very important litigation that you cannot ignore - and has imposed other much less favourable rules. Indeed, a significant part of EZB's provisions is considered taxable, which does not favour the establishment of an accounting financing mechanism - which is still something different. The tax agreement of 29 July 2014 considers a tax allowance of EUR 220 000 per year, with a view to reaching EUR 4.4 million in 2030. While the company has ceased operations for the production of radioisotopes, it still maintains commercial activities. The AFCN confirms its concern with respect to the proper execution of the dismantling, but states that there is no safety problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u56	For that, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u57	It's over for the gap. The assessment of the adequacy of the availability of provisions made by financial officials to cover their nuclear costs is a risk of inadequate coverage of these costs, which has been a concern for many years. From the first inventory report, covering the period 1998-2002 and transmitted to the guardianship in January 2003, ONDRAF recommended that legislation be changed in this area. This was further elaborated in the second report 2003-2007, as well as the recommendations made by ONDRAF, and led ONDRAF to implement its recommendations by letter of 9 January 2009. In 2010-11, ONDRAF conducted a legal and economic analysis of the legal regulatory and contractual framework for the coverage of nuclear costs. In 2010, he submitted to his trusteeship a summary of his work on provisions for decommissioning nuclear power plants, on the management of spent fuel and, in 2012, on the work on nuclear provisions made up by financial officials in general. The reflection carried out through the analysis of the legal and regulatory and contractual framework - which is also important - led ONDRAF to make recommendations in its third inventory report to remedy the deficiencies identified. In January 2014, the Council of Ministers set up a working group on the transposition of the EURATOM Directive establishing a Community framework, composed of these famous GTLs. The LWG is working on the creation of a legal framework for provisioning for operators not subject to the Act of 11 April 2003 and for the cessation of activities of Class II, III and IV operators in order to structurally resolve this type of problem. AFCN, in collaboration with ONDRAF, has prepared a proposed amendment for its Royal Decree of 21 July 2001 and this entry into force of the article I have quoted is likely to change the situation of EZB. This coming into force is imminent, I am told. That's all I know and I deliver to you in a completely objective way. I find this situation indeed worrying and I will look into it. I was not unaware a priori of its existence. The details were not in sight since we also have other big files to deal with in dismantling Class I establishments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u58	I hope we get the e-mail. When you passed, you promised me two documents. I made a reminder e-mail. I haven't received any answers to my last requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u59	My collaborator tells me he was sent this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u60	Madam Minister, on the substance of the items you have added, if at least our exchange makes it possible to put this matter first, even if the amounts have nothing to do with the amounts we were talking about, it will be a good thing. In principle, I believe that the elements that your administration has provided should draw our attention even more to the risk. The amounts could be even larger than those recorded. Availability is lacking. There's a conflict with the tax authorities. It is only in 2030 that it would be possible to imagine a catch-up plan of 4.4 million, whereas today it is identified a need of 10.3 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u61	Je vais interroger l'ONDRAF.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u62	Bien, your vais dance votre sens. Beyond the security aspect for which there is an order - as you say and you are right - it is surprising that it is not yet published; I will ask Mr Jambon the question - the question of provisions remains. It's in your skills. That is why I am asking you about this. I'm glad to hear you say you're going to interview the ONDRAF to see how to get that money back. In my view, it will be a question of the relationship with the parent house, even if the amounts are less than what was mentioned with ENGIE. This is what we need to look for because the company exists outside Belgium. There are still real farms. Let's not wait for 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u63	Hence the interest of generalizing the legal framework that I want to advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u64	Yes, of course, but that's another aspect of the case. This is not the legal framework of the order that we were talking about right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u65	I fully agree, but the purpose of Bill CPN is to generalize a full-scale exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u66	Mr President, I will read the rest of the answer in the e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u67	During our exchange on 23 May, you informed us that you had received a project to extend the Vilvorde gas plant and that a meeting had been requested by the operators of the plant in this regard from your administration. What was the meeting you were expecting back from? In addition, during the same exchange, you undertook to check whether this extension had been taken into account when calculating the 3.6 gigawatts (GW) requirement under the energy pact. What about it? You also made a commitment to share with us the picture of the existence used at the time to determine this future need of 3.6 GW. I had not yet received this table at the time of writing this question, or this morning, but you may have forwarded it to the secretariat of the committee in the meantime. I therefore take advantage of the agenda to put this question to your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u68	Mr President, first of all, my administration was indeed invited by Energy Market to visit the Vilvorde gas plant on 8 March 2018. The capacity of the open-cycle power plant is currently 264 megawatts (MW). The plant was part of the strategic reserve from 2014 until last winter. The technical field visit enabled the administration to observe the practical functioning of the strategic reserve mechanism. At the end of the presentation, Energy Market explained in more detail its intentions for repowering and new plants to achieve a total production capacity of 1000 MW. His intentions were subsequently confirmed by a letter dated 6 April 2018. No application for authorisation of electricity generation has yet been submitted by Energy Market to DG Energy for this repowering project and no preliminary contact has yet been made to prepare a possible application file for authorisation. Secondly, the analyses carried out by Elia in 2017 took as a reference that the Vilvorde power plant would no longer be available in 2025. Indeed, at the time these were carried out, this extension project was not yet known. Thus, the needs analyses and calculations leading to 3.6 GW of new capacity by 2025 obviously do not take into account the existence of this project. However, this project may well be one of the options to meet this need for new capacity. Third, below you will find the table, and you were sent it this morning, but we can send it back to you. I don't know if you checked your e-mails.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u69	I checked my e-mails but not the e-mails from the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u70	Okay, we'll send it to you. You will find the table listing the main production units of the gas type as well as the combined or closed, active today. This table was used to determine the need for 3.6 GW of new capacity for 2025. This list distinguishes between units that will still be available in 2025 and those that will no longer be available on the assumption that today's active power plants will not exceed a life of 25 years. On this basis, it follows that 2.3 GW of such units will still be available in the electrical system by 2025, which I said earlier. In the same table, the third column shows the installed capacity of the plants taken into account. The current capacity of the Vilvorde power plant, as contracted under the reserve, is 264 MW. This plant was not taken into account as being available in 2025 for the calculation of capacity requirements by 2025. It will, of course, evolve according to the requests for authorisation made by the company operating the plant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u71	That's interesting. The assumption I made last time was pretty much the same, but we weren't sure, because neither you nor I had the list of power plants in front of us. We will now have it, thanks to your response and the secretariat. That's interesting because this plant wasn't accounted for, which means you're back there with 1,000 MW. This therefore reduces the need, which you had encrypted in your energy pact, to four 700 power plants. I'm calculating memory. So you only need three. However, it was not included in the list of possible power plants. It must of course make a formal request, but the project can already be taken into account, even if we will have to wait, as with all the other power stations, for the submission of a formal request which may be linked to the mechanism of guarantee and remuneration of availability. Other questions were asked by colleagues on this subject earlier. This is interesting, because it suggests that the extension of nuclear power was not necessary. We had those 1,000 MW under our hands. All you had to do was dig a little. I turn to the president who already makes me sign. We are not going to relaunch this old debate, which is not on today's agenda. So I'm not doing it, except in the context of my reply. CQFD: extension was not required. Look at the availability of Doel 1 and Doel 2 today compared to the 6,000 MW present today, which were just waiting to be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u72	Mr Nollet, your reply is contained in the full report of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u73	I'm glad we don't start over what we've been through for days, weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u74	Minister, Mr. Nollet has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u75	Mr President, I will not even reply to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u76	Let's stay there. Your previous reply was already a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u77	Madam Minister, at our exchange of 23 May on the purchase by Elia of additional shares in 50Hertz, and in view of the risk that this purchase would be passed on to the Belgian consumer's invoice, you informed us of your request for investigation on 26 April with the regulator. You had asked CREG to keep you informed of the findings that it would make as part of its monitoring mission. We know how short the time frame for intervention in this type of case is. Minister, what are the findings of CREG in its monitoring mission? What conclusions do you draw from these findings and what are you going to put in place? Can you now guarantee that this buyback will have no impact on Belgian consumers' bills?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u78	Mr President, honourable Member, as part of Elia's exercise of its right of preemption over 20% of Eurogrid International, it is important that the Belgian consumer's bill is not affected by this acquisition and its financing. On 22 May, CREG informed me that it had received the documents requested from Elia, namely the report on the analysis of its rating and the prospectus on the loan to finance this acquisition, as well as some of the answers to the questions asked. In view of the fact that new questions were asked by CREG to Elia and that additional documents were requested on 1 June, the case is still being investigated by the regulator, in such a way that it is too early to draw conclusions. As mentioned in my answer to your previous question on the subject, we will see what the CREG's findings are when it completes its review of all of Elia's answers and documents. We will of course comment on them in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u79	Mr President, I want you to go to the next committee. I will repeat my question and hope that the analysis will then be carried out. There's still some kind of emergency. Elia's economic decisions cannot wait indefinitely. That is why I will allow myself to put this item back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u80	Madam Minister, during our exchange on 23 May, you informed us that, regarding Tihange, Electrabel had still not recovered five of its nine approvals relating to nuclear waste management, and concerning Doel, four of its ten approvals. I asked you to share your analysis of the situation, especially since some approvals will not be recovered until 2020! Having not prepared this dimension of the question and preferring not to do "political analysis to the coin, which is not like you", you proposed to me to discuss it again on the occasion of a next question. That is why I am asking you again today about this. What analysis do you make of such a situation? What operational conclusions do you draw from this analysis? President: Jean-Marc Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u81	Mr President, I had already given you a lot of information in my answer to your question No 24027 at the May 23 session. I'll add a few more elements. With the acceptance process and the establishment of acceptance criteria, the approval process constitutes one of the basic pillars of ONDRAF for the operational management of radioactive waste and to ensure their delayed safety, in the short term during transport, in the medium term during processing and possible and long-term packaging during storage and storage. For approval, ONDRAF shall ensure that facilities, processes, treatments, packagings and methods for the determination of radiological content and physico-chemical characteristics are capable of producing waste in accordance with the acceptance criteria applicable to them. As I have indicated to you, the producer is responsible for the treatment and packaging of waste in a licensed sector. Where an operator does not have the authorisation to proceed or the radiological approval for a category of waste, he may not present his waste for acceptance by ONDRAF. It is therefore impossible for it to transfer to ONDRAF the waste which it produces and which belongs to this category. They must be kept temporarily in their own facilities, in secure storage facilities provided for that purpose and under their responsibility. These facilities are controlled by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) until the renewal of the operator's licences. With regard to the AFCN and safety aspects, I would ask you to address my colleague Minister Jan Jambon. I would add that it is also the operator's responsibility to ensure that valid approvals or renewals are available if it wishes to condition, process or measure radioactive waste with its equipment for acceptance by ONDRAF. Since the treatment and packaging of waste has an undeniable impact on their short-, medium- and long-term future characteristics, and therefore on what I call deferred security, it seems to me important to have rules for granting approvals that are stable, adequate, known and that take account of international experience. It also seems to me important that the accreditation process be strictly monitored and monitored. I do not want the requirements for the accreditation process to be reduced. Of course, your question was related to the fact that some approvals were not obtained. But this is not a problem in itself if, in connection with the AFCN and under its responsibility, the operator stores the waste for future packaging and, more precisely, in such a way as to obtain the approval of the ONDRAF. The question of these approvals evolves over time. The last meeting, I traced to you the details of the evolution of all these amenities along and wide. I can't go any further. We can still regret that approvals do not exist, but the truth is that the operator remains liable for storage and packaging in accordance with the security rules of the PSAN, our system provides for this as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u82	Madam Minister, that would be all...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u83	I agree, it would be all that would be missing, necessarily... that means the system is working.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u84	All that would be lacking is that the operator is no longer responsible. We agree, so much the better. But the major operator in the nuclear sector no longer has half of its waste management approvals. This situation must be an issue for us. I have tabled an oral question. You respond formally between the lines. Even if the situation has to be managed anyway, as you say, in terms of signaling the quality of the work performed and the reliability of the company, we must point this out as negative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u85	I understand how you react to this, but the operator has sufficient facilities to accommodate unpackaged waste under his responsibility and under the watchful eye of the AFCN. If there is a shortage of space, which is not currently the case, the AFCN has the legal tools to intervene and ensure nuclear safety. Therefore, for this part, I refer you back to my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u86	Mr. Nollet, your final line...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u87	Mr. Chair, it will be brief, as it highlights the first sentence of the Minister's ultimate response. Madam Minister, you understand what I meant, that's the point. The truth is, the situation is serious enough that you can only understand it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u88	Minister, during our May 18 exchange, you informed us that you expected to receive the interim report from the LWG (Legislative Working Group), which was set up in 2014, "as soon as possible". I hope this time it is. Since then, have you received this report? If so, can you give us a copy and give us an oral outline and inform us of your follow-up to the recommendations that are being made? If not, what is the timing of this interim report?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u89	Mr President, my answer will be very short. The administration has not yet forwarded this report to me. It tells me that I am fully engaged in all the tasks I have assigned to it, which are also priorities, including those related to support in the framework of the draft legislation proposed by the CPN, the MYRRHA project, the transition fund – now completed – and the establishment of the PNEC, etc. I will continue to insist that I am regularly questioned in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u90	Minister, I am not only a Member of Parliament, but I am also disappointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u91	Mr. Nollet, you're a congressman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u92	I am a Member of Parliament despite the fact that a working group set up in 2014 still did not produce results in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u93	I'm telling you myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u94	You're not a member of parliament, but probably you're just as upset as I am. But you're a disgraced minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u95	There you go.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u96	It's like a Raymond Devos sketch! These are, rigorously, puns to Bruno Coppens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u97	Mr President, I propose that we be an asbl: "The Depts".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u98	"There's no sense anymore!"
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u99	Minister, I will not follow your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u100	This will allow us to go around the roundabout.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u101	Once it is not customary, I will not follow your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u102	This is the sketch of the roundabout and common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u103	I'm not going to follow your proposal. Indeed, if we find ourselves in this situation, it is also because your government has decided to cut back on the administration's expenses. Logically, at some point, she's no longer in a position to... Yes, Mr. Wollants, you can look at me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u104	I don't quite agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u105	Mr Wollants, let me finish. I'm the one who's got the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u106	Mr. Nollet, I'm the one who increased...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u107	Minister, Mr. Nollet has the floor for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u108	I am still the one who has considerably increased the number of inspectors in the Environment DG. It is not me alone, of course, since the government has accepted my proposal, certainly on my budgets. I can't do anything either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u109	Mr. Nollet's final reply? Parliament has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u110	Mr President, this is my first reply!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u111	You were interrupted, I know, but what do you want?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u112	Minister, I think this demonstrates the limits of this policy that the government wants to castrate the administration, to prevent it from having the means to do the job. When the administration is unable to submit a report in 2018 that was requested in 2014, it is also linked to a lack of investment in this area. On this, your government bears a great responsibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u113	I assure you that they have a lot of work to do and that they are trying to do it as best they can!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u114	Madam Minister, the Dutch Government has meanwhile announced the calendar for the further phasing-out of coal power stations in the Netherlands. By 2024, the two oldest coal plants currently operating would be phased out, accounting for just over 1 200 megawatts. In 2030, the remaining 3 400 megawatts of capacity will be closed. Of course, that is a good thing, not only because it is implementing the ambition of the Powering Past Coal Alliance, but also because it was pointed out a while ago in a Greenpeace report that in 2013 Dutch coal plants caused more than 290 premature deaths, due to the production of coal-based electricity in the Netherlands. On the other hand, Elijah's study, which we have already discussed, took account of the Dutch coal plants. In the table on page 52, for the three scenarios there is 3 to 4.6 gigawatt of capacity in the Netherlands, which now seems to fall back to 0 gigawatt, if I have understood the intentions of our northern neighbours correctly. I have a number of questions. First of all, what is the result of the new closing calendar for Elijah's math? You know that Elijah's study involved at least one extra gigawatt to cover closures abroad. Secondly, what steps have been taken in the meantime to better identify the need for additional capacity, given the loss of that capacity? Thirdly, the federal energy strategy provides for security of supply monitoring to be carried out by Elia, the CREG and DG Energy. How are these data processed in the monitoring process?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u115	Mr Wollants, first of all, several hypotheses have evolved since the drafting of the study you mentioned by Elijah. Therefore, it is not appropriate to refer to that study and to modify only one parameter in order to know its potential impact on security of supply. Nevertheless, it is useful to repeat the exercise on the basis of a simulation with an updated set of hypotheses so that the necessary measures can be taken to safeguard security of supply. Therefore, a draft law amending the Electricity Act will provide for the system operator to carry out an analysis of the adequacy and flexibility of the Belgian electricity system for the next 10 years by 30 June of each biennial period at the latest. Secondly, as a measure to safeguard security of supply and to better determine future capacity requirements, a capacity remuneration mechanism project is in preparation, provided that an analysis of needs will be carried out for each auction. Thirdly, as explained in my last intervention in the Chamber, a federal energy committee will be set up for monitoring. The future functioning of this Committee is still under consideration, but it is certain that the Group will base itself on the work of Elia, the CREG and the AD Energy by taking into account their latest published reports on security of supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u116	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. In any case, we will have to follow this up further within the framework of the federal energy strategy, in order to remain aware of the challenge there will be against or will not be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u117	Madam Secretary, a number of companies in our country are organising group purchases. With us, it's mainly Pricewise and iChoosr. In the past, the criticism was that they could not be controlled by the CREG. At the end of 2016, you replied to a written question that the CREG should be given that power to request all the data necessary to control facilitators of group purchases in the same way as the suppliers participating in them. Today, those who organise this and thus generate a reasonable profit margin are not controlled or seen as almost non-existent. You announced that action would be taken in the short term, in particular from the beginning of 2018. We are now mid-2018 and it seems appropriate to ask for a state of affairs, especially in view of the CREG study, which pointed to a number of pain points. Can you indicate how far you stand by giving that competence to the CREG and the actions associated with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u118	As you know, more and more public and private institutions are organising group purchases. However, the demand for information for group purchase organisers is currently not within the remit of the CREG, as included in the Gas and Electricity Act. It would be desirable to extend the competence of CREG with regard to the request for information from, inter alia, joint purchasing organisations, aggregators, companies providing energy services and energy agents. This could be done by adapting the definition of intermediary in the law "Gas and Electricity" in order to establish clearly, for all parties, the competence of CREG to request information. The CREG is working on an evaluation of the Charter of Good Practice for price comparison websites. Through this process, the CREG wishes to establish a broader code of conduct on good consumer information, a code of conduct in which the organizers of group purchases may also be involved. For example, voluntary accreditation of the organisers of group purchases and other intermediaries can already maximise the current powers of the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u119	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. From this, I understand that the gas and electricity laws should be amended. I also understand from the previous answers that you do intend to amend the gas and electricity laws, so I think it would be wise to take this with you. After all, we are seeing a number of things happening today that are not so neat. These group purchases are presented as the cheapest solution, but other price competitors indicate that this is not always the case. In the field of consumer legislation, Pricewise was flogged back in the Netherlands because it was doing a number of wrong things. I think it is good to look at that, especially since I notice that smaller suppliers are increasingly falling apart because the price to be paid per switching customer is of that order that they cannot handle it. As a result, we are going back to a concentration of the market. Until a few years ago, ENGIE Electrabel refrained from participating in such matters. I now notice that as far as the group purchase of the province of Antwerp is concerned, accompanied by socialist deputy Mrs Verhaert, who prefers not to see a particular supplier win, ENGIE has won that group purchase, but perhaps not with the best price. That is why it is a good thing that the CREG should shed light on this issue, so that consumers can at least choose freely and not get the impression that it is the cheapest that always comes from the group purchase. We note that this is not the case. This is a bad thing for our market forces, but also for consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u120	Mr President, this is a relatively short question. Madam Minister, the federal energy strategy stipulated that the preliminary draft law on the capacity mechanism would be submitted to the Council of Ministers on 31 May. In view of the fact that the energy strategy has a number of sharp deadlines to achieve everything, I would have liked to have had a state of play on that part, or at least on the first deadline that has passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u121	Mr.President, Madam Minister, according to the schedule set out in the federal energy strategy of March 30, 2018, you were required to table a draft bill concerning the capacity compensation mechanism (CRM) in the Council of Ministers on May 31, 2018. This date is now outdated and there is no trace of it on the sites. However, you had again confirmed this deadline at the reply session to the questions of 25 April 2018, adding that it would be submitted immediately for approval to the European Commission. During his presentation on March 14, 2018, the PwC consultant told us that the mechanism you prefer is that of reliability auctions. Nevertheless, the same consultant also indicated that the establishment of this mechanism may take several years. This is also reflected in the study that you have transmitted to us. In the April 25, 2018 commission, you also told me that the CRM could be put in place in a proactive manner. Minister, how do you explain this delay in the government's schedule? Is the mechanism of reliability still current or do you now prefer another track? If so, which one? Are you considering going through a tendering mechanism that, according to the study you have provided us, would take much less time to implement than the one you currently prefer? On Tuesday, May 29, 2018, Philippe Van Troeye, indicated that it would not be possible to extend nuclear power in an emergency if you failed to ensure energy security by 2025. Are you conducting negotiations in this direction? Have you fixed a new schedule? Do you think you can pass a draft bill at first reading before July 20, 2018? Could you tell us more about the possibility that you mentioned of putting the CRM in place in a proactive manner, that is, before it is approved by the European Commission? Has this already been done? What involvement can this have in the legal certainty of such a montage?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u122	Mr President, the discussions on the draft law on the introduction of a capacity remuneration mechanism in order to ensure security of supply are still included in the agenda of the inter-kabinet meetings. The last meeting took place today. That was the seventh meeting in the meantime. Given the complexity of the mechanism to be implemented, a delay of a few days compared to the initially announced agenda is regrettable. I will come back to you when I am presented with a final text. And for the Member of Parliament for Lamotte, the deadline for tabling the draft bill set out in the federal strategy has been well exceeded because of the complexity of the mechanism to be implemented and the crucial objective pursued: to ensure security of electricity supply. Discussions on the project are still ongoing, I have just said. Today took place the 7th intercabinets meeting. However, progress and achievements are being made within the framework of the federal energy pact strategy. The auction mechanism based on reliability auctions is the mechanism that I want to implement. This mechanism does not exclude the holding of one-off auctions, if that is what you are referring to. If the one-off auction is organised prior to the introduction of the capacity remuneration mechanism, this auction is a partial implementation to be supplemented by the organisation of additional auctions to achieve the full volume of capacity required. I obviously confirm my willingness to work in compliance with the law governing the release of nuclear electricity in 2025. My objective remains to pass the preliminary draft at first reading before the end of this month. The draft law provides for a sunset clause for the mechanism provided for in the event of non-acceptance by the European Commission. There is therefore no question of putting it in place before approval by the Commission. I repeat, moreover, that this mechanism has recently been approved by other countries and that I have, through the mechanism envisaged, respected the Commission's rules on State aid, as set out in these other dossiers, in such a way that I am confident in the legal certainty of the proposed mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u123	Madam Minister, such a mechanism is indeed not easy. When we received PwC in committee, they already pointed out to us that a good mechanism without adverse side effects must be properly aligned, including with our neighbouring countries. We look forward to further progress in the dossier. I suppose we will hear more about it in the next month.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u124	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You set a new timetable in your response today in relation to what was originally planned by the project and by the government in the person of the Prime Minister. I take note of that. This is obviously a complex problem. I fully agree, but we will have to move forward. I can't wait to see it, but I see it's more complicated than you can imagine. The timetable has therefore already been exceeded. So I'm waiting for the rest of the operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u125	Minister, according to the schedule set out in the federal energy strategy of March 30, you were required to table a draft bill concerning the system of degression of offshore overload in the Council of Ministers of May 31, 2018. This date is now out of date and I don't see any trace of it. However, you confirmed this deadline at the answer to the questions on 25 April. You have repeatedly indicated that you are awaiting the green light of the European Commission on the proposed solution. In addition, at the meeting on 25 April, you indicated that, in order to set the energy standard, in addition to the problem of offshore degression, you would also have to monitor the prices of all the components of the energy cost in Belgium, to carry out a benchmarking with the countries connected to the Belgian network, and to find an agreement with the other levels of power so that the standard is not compensated by increases in the rates charged by them. Minister, on the offshore degression mechanism in particular, how do you explain the delay in tabling in the Council of Ministers the preliminary draft law on the offshore degression system? In the event that the Commission is reluctant to do so, on what basis are they based? Will you still be able to table the draft bill at first reading before July 20? With regard to the other steps needed to develop an energy standard, what progress has been made in price monitoring and benchmarking with neighbouring countries on prices? What about negotiations with other levels of government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u126	As far as offshore degression is concerned, a proposal to reform the degression and cap on electro-intensive consumers is currently being tabled on the table of the Interdepartmental Working Group (IKW). This project, to which CREG has contributed all its expertise, needs to be studied and discussed as much as necessary in order to arrive at a solution that protects the competitiveness of our companies. Indeed, the stakes are not due to its timetable, but to its economic importance for companies that rely on electricity and consume it intensively. The discussions may be long, I'm not hiding it from you. They will certainly be interesting, if not passionate, since it is a matter of competitiveness in terms of jobs, i.e. one of the priorities of this government. The discussion will be all the more complicated since this reform must be carried out without postponing the burden on other consumers, such as SMEs, without affecting the purchasing power of households and without burdening the state budget. I've already talked about it, and I called it triangulation of the circle. Whatever the intensity of the debate, the government will remain in control of its timetable and will take the time to find the best possible solution. As in any reform, there will be winners. These will be the majority, I assure you. There will also be losers. This is why it is necessary to work globally to control the burdens on electro-intensive consumers' bills. This is the meaning of the work carried out in parallel on the determination of an energy standard. We are also working in collaboration with the services of the European Commission. The contacts are very constructive. We are still waiting for guidance from them in order to guide our work as best we can. As regards price monitoring and comparison with prices in neighbouring countries, the case is also well under way. The CREG provided me with an update of its study carried out in collaboration with PwC. Follow-up is therefore ensured. In addition, CREG has also informed me that it is making contact with its regional counterparts with a view to preparing a joint monitoring and benchmarking study, carried out within the informal regulatory consultation body, FORBEG. In this respect, I have taken note with interest of the statements made by the Flemish Minister of Energy, who, like his Walloon colleague, wishes to organise the monitoring and comparison of prices. This collaboration between regulators will, I hope, lead to the completion of a study recognised by everyone as the reference in the monitoring of prices and tariffs and as a tool for comparison with neighbouring countries. In addition, the text of a preliminary draft law on the establishment of a federal monitoring committee as provided for in the government agreement is submitted to the inter-ministerial working group. This federal monitoring committee will be responsible, among other things, for monitoring developments in energy prices and tariffs. On the basis of these positive developments, work is under way to establish a federal energy standard. This federal energy standard will cover the cost of convenience, offshore overload, federal contribution and transportation fare. Taking into account the consumption profile and energy intensity, the standard will aim to ensure that the different components of energy costs are not higher in Belgium than in our neighbours, so as to preserve the competitiveness of our enterprises and the purchasing power of households. This standard will apply to the various federal components. Particular attention will be paid to the cost of gas and electricity for industries with an intense energy profile. Of course, the deadlines that we will set within the government will be respected and each minister involved in the discussions will be committed to succeeding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic915x.u127	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, it's complicated, the file is still in intercabinets. When you make pieces of pie, there are some that are bigger for some and smaller for others. You are telling me that the government is in control of its project and of its time, but we will have to hurry, even if it is to hurry slowly. I will remain attentive to what you will be able to produce within the time frame that the government has set itself. The wait will quickly become unsustainable and I hope you can reassure us before the big holidays.
