ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u2	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, according to OECD figures, the growth of Belgian workers' wages is in dull, while the employment rate is rising. Of course, we are gradually climbing the slope after the financial crisis of 2008 and 2010. But the purchasing power of our citizens remains on the floor. Obviously, the effects of your tax shift are not yet felt. On the other hand, your 2015 index jump still penalizes households. It is, of course, the low wages that pay the most. As a result, the FEB is very sceptical about the energy transition after 2025, which could discourage many investors or further hinder staff engagement by our companies. This energy vision also shivers many households when your energy minister announces that the electricity bill will inevitably increase after the nuclear age and that, in addition to that, a carbon tax will come into being. Prime Minister, still on the basis of your demagogic ecologist ideology, you have changed the excise duties penalizing the owners of diesel-powered vehicles, the same drivers that you encouraged a few years ago to buy this kind of vehicle. In short, indirect taxation is intensifying, which considerably diminishes the purchasing power of our citizens. Many question themselves because, despite their work, they reach the poverty line. I will avoid the chapter of the refugees to whom it is given, not to mention the legal minimum, increased of course the family allowances, without them contributing to the development of our economy. Prime Minister, what do you intend to do in your current year of Parliament to improve the purchasing power of small and medium-sized wages, so as to return to the European standard as a minimum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carcaci, let me first thank you for your many encouragements. At the economic and social level, as well as at the environmental level, we do have the ambition to move the country forward. I would like to highlight the progress made through extremely important reforms. The tax shift represents for low and medium wages almost an additional thirteenth month after three years of implementation. This shows that we want to advance the purchasing power, especially of the people who work; to support, also, the most fragile people through the revalorisation of the well-being envelopes. This is said by the Office of the Plan: household disposable income increases by 2.1 per cent, which is one of the fundamental elements for supporting consumption and growth, which is valued between 1.6 and 1.8 per cent, according to the institutions that make the estimates. We will continue to act, through two key points. I guess you can support them. First of all, it is the desire to support an investment pact, as stimulating investment is tantamount to stimulating economic growth, especially if the right choices are made in the energy field as well as in the mobility and digital agenda. This agenda is obviously a challenge for all countries. In Belgium, as elsewhere, we are very active on the subject. This is the meaning of the Digital Belgium project led by Alexander De Croo. The second point, which is central to us, is the fact that there is a paradox today: we have created, mainly thanks to businesses, 185 000 additional jobs, investments are going up, the prospects for hiring are favourable, but at the same time, very many jobs remain unoccupied due to the lack of people with the necessary training and qualifications. It is the meaning of an Arbeidsdeal that we want to be able to conclude in partnership with the federated entities. We work hard with the Minister for Employment, involving the social partners, representatives of workers and companies. As you can see, we are determined to continue the reforms in the coming months to continue to achieve results: more jobs, more purchasing power, less poverty, more economic dynamism and more funding for our social protections.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u4	Mr President, I thank the Prime Minister for his answer, but I am not quite convinced. Indeed, I note that the reforms that are drafted in haste are to the point that you sometimes change the rules of the game during the "match", whether at pension level or at excise level. It's good to yell "jobs, jobs, jobs!" And I willingly subscribe to it. But jobs must allow people to no longer be confronted with the poverty line and precariousness, not the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u5	Prime Minister, what exactly was agreed at the European summit on migration? There has been talk of regional shipping platforms in North Africa, but the North African countries do not want to know about it. There has been talk of controlled centres in the European Union to take care of rescued migrants. But almost no European country wants to set up such a centre, and if we try to do so, we are fighting with neighbouring countries. Finally, we want to achieve a distribution plan between the European countries on a voluntary basis, but no country wants to participate. Then we cannot speak of an agreement, Prime Minister. It is a non-agreement to save Mrs Merkel's skin. Even that was not possible, because at the moment Mrs Merkel is experiencing serious problems with her coalition partners. Merkel's policy is shaky. What can we determine in the meantime? There is no solution to illegal migration. There is no solution to the large number of refugees drowning in the Mediterranean. In June 500 people would have drowned in the Mediterranean. Asylum counters in North Africa or southern Europe, I do not think that is a good idea at all. Such a measure only has an effect on the environment and does not yet provide a solution for those who do not receive asylum. Do you really think these refugees will return voluntarily? Do you really think that they will not try to enter Europe illegally? The deal with Turkey deserves absolutely no beauty prize, but we have closed that route and fewer people have drowned in the Aegean Sea. Turkey is what it is, also Libya is what it is, but in June the Libyan Coast Guard managed to bring more migrants back to mainland Libya instead of passing people through Italy. Italy cooperates with Libya and strengthens the Libyan art guard. I believe that this policy can provide some relief in the short term. Prime Minister, what do you think of the agreement? Are there any other slopes, like the Libyan solution? Were they discussed at the summit, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u6	We will certainly have a chance in committee next week to go into more detail, because after each European summit we have a thorough and intense debate on this in committee. I would like to deal with a few points already. I have repeatedly advocated, in the name of the government, a strong political will at European level for a global approach. I have always said that there are three important points, and those three important points are reflected in the conclusions of last week's European Summit. Firstly, efforts to secure Europe's borders must be strengthened. That is, of course, crucial and fundamental. Every great democracy must secure its borders, including at European level. That's the first priority. Secondly, a 2 cooperation agreement with third countries must be concluded. That has already happened to Turkey. I remember that there was a lot of criticism in the first few hours and days after the agreement with Turkey was concluded, but it works and results. There is also criticism today of last week's conclusions, but in a few weeks or months it will be seen that progress has also been made thanks to such agreements. Thirdly, there is a need for an internal approach in Europe itself with responsibility and solidarity. That is why we agreed that we should also continue to work on the reform of the Dublin agreements in order to define more clearly the responsibilities of all European countries. That is not easy, but we believe that it is necessary to find a solution to this problem. Finally, the controlled centres at European level are the start of an additional approach precisely because it is necessary to distinguish between those who meet the conditions to be recognised as refugees and economic migrants. The aim is to negotiate with a number of third countries in order to set up centres where those who could be entitled to asylum and who could not be. In short, we want to defend the fundamental values with the support of the UNHCR or other United Nations organisations, but we also need to be able to achieve effective results. That's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u7	Thank you for your detailed reply, Prime Minister. I am also looking forward to the answers you will give in committee next week. I note that not many countries are jumping for controlled centres in the European Union. If it is to be established, the neighbouring countries will protest. We simply have to stop thinking that there is only one solution, namely to accept as many refugees as possible. I agree with your colleague, Mr Macron. I think he is an example to you when he says: 'Nous ne pouvons pas accueillier toute la misère du monde'. Prime Minister, the asylum points in North Africa and southern Europe will have an effect. Your Secretary of State also described it as such in 2015. The only thing that can be seen then is that people keep drowning. It seems to me that the best solution is to receive refugees humanely in their own country or in one of the neighbouring countries. The European Union should spend its money on this. It can support and secure. With the same amount of money, we could help so many more people in their region. Let us continue to opt for the Libyan solution in the short term. I also hope that the negotiations on the Dublin Agreement will be successful in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u8	I accepted at the last minute that Mrs Fonck should add her question to Mrs Lanjri's question, while she agreed to withdraw her inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u9	Minister, in the case of pregnant women who become ill during the six weeks before their expected date of delivery, those sick days are deducted from their maternity leave. This is therefore not regarded as incapacity for work and they lose those days of 15 weeks of maternity rest. That is a pity, of course, because it means that they do not have a full 15 weeks and that they therefore also need to get back to work earlier. Minister, it is strange that this regulation only applies to private workers. For officials of the federal government, for example, there is a much better or much more logical arrangement. For pregnant civil servants, the rule is that if they become ill during the six-week period before the day on which they are calculated, it will be checked whether that disease is related to pregnancy or not. If the disease has nothing to do with the pregnancy, for example when it comes to a common flu, they do not lose those days. They are regarded simply as unfit for work for that period and can then, of course, have full 15 weeks of maternity rest. I believe that a good and logical reasoning was worked out for the federal officials. Since it seems to me that it is no longer time for women to be treated differently depending on their employment status, it seems obvious to me that the rules for pregnant women should be brought into line, regardless of their employment status, whether they are employed in the private sector, civil servant or self-employed. For the self-employed, we have recently increased maternity rest to 12 weeks. That was a very important step in the right direction. I think it is important to eliminate other forms of inequality as quickly as possible. The Women's Council and the Family Union are also calling for this. So, Minister, I would like to ask you to eliminate the difference in regulations for workers in the private sector and civil servants. Do you think it is right that we should eliminate this unequal treatment of pregnant women on the basis of their employment status as soon as possible? Within what time limit do you consider that possible? I believe that we should really be inspired by the scheme for civil servants in which women do not lose maternity leave because of a disease that has nothing to do with their pregnancy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u10	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I have already dealt with this subject on several occasions in this House and in committee. Indeed, when an illness occurs at the end of pregnancy, or during a complicated pregnancy that requires a medical stoppage of work, maternity leave after delivery is reduced. It can be solid, as the mother can lose a post-maternity rest period of up to six weeks. It is, of course, a double penalty: that which is linked to his illness and to his problem of termination of pregnancy, then that of having his maternity leave directly amputated. It's very bad for her, but it also affects her baby. Crèche placement can be highly anticipated, which raises the question. Deputy Prime Minister, this is particularly unfair, because in the public sector, these weeks of sick leave before delivery, even if they are late, are immunized, so maternity leave remains full and complete. I have been involved in this problem for several months in the House, with the League of Families, the 40,000 women who signed a petition, and young mothers who have suffered the consequences of this problem directly. With Nahima Lanjri, I have tabled a bill, and I invite you to co-sign it. We need to move the lines, Deputy Prime Minister. So far, the government has opposed a no and has sent us back to you. That's why we're calling on you. As Minister of Employment, you must be extremely sensitive to the fact that when women return to work after their maternity leave, their state of health allows them to do so. What steps will you take in this regard? Do you agree to examine this bill so that we can move forward together in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lanjri and Mr Fonck, I understand that it has been discussed a number of times in committee, that my colleague De Block has given a number of answers and that the debate is not so much about benefits, let alone double benefits, but about the law. I agree with both colleagues' analysis that there is indeed a different treatment in the public sector than in the private sector as regards the problem of prenatal six weeks and post-natal nine weeks, i.e. a total of 15 weeks' leave for pregnant workers. Your analysis is correct and correct. You stress that this is a discrimination against women working in the private sector in relation to the public sector. This discrimination or the difference in treatment is rightly raised here. There are, of course, other elements, but where pregnant women are concerned, the need for equal treatment is more urgent than elsewhere. After all, there are also differences in terms of time credit, career break and others. We want to eliminate these differences. I will refer this issue to the National Labour Council as soon as possible, so that this discrimination can be eliminated. After receiving the opinion of the National Labour Council, I will continue to take the necessary action with my colleagues in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u12	Minister, I am pleased that you acknowledge that we must treat women equally and that, of course, there can be no unequal treatment between pregnant women working in the private sector and civil servants. I am also pleased that you are prepared to eliminate this discrimination between women as quickly as possible. This is important, not only because they have had the bad luck of getting sick, but also because of the fact that they often lack maternity rest after childbirth. They are often a few weeks short and the goal of maternity rest is just to give women a chance to fully recover before they get back to work. So it is actually a win-win situation if we not only resolve this discrimination but also ensure that these mothers are fit after childbirth when they resume work. I hope that we will soon get an answer from the social partners. Then, if necessary, we in Parliament will be able to tackle this discrimination or else you will be able to draw up a regulation to eliminate discrimination between workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u13	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. It is, I hope, in a positive sense. For the first time, I hear an opening on this file. There is no longer a full and complete refusal. So I hope the lines can move. To request the National Labour Council seems to me logical and positive in the hope that it recognizes this discrimination between the public and private sectors to the detriment of the latter. In order for the NTC to be able to give its opinion on the basis of very concrete data, in addition to the questions you would like to ask it, I propose that you forward my bill to the NTC, which all colleagues who wish to do so may co-sign. I hope, indeed, that this bill can be part of a collective approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u14	Mr President, Minister, these are busy times for the police. Next week the NATO Summit and several 11 July celebrations will take place. Music festivals started in Dour and Werchter. There is also the constant threat of terror. Hopefully we will also see a Belgian final next week. All this, of course, requires a lot of police effort. Chapeau for all policemen, who are always ready! There is also a strike with the guards, which has been going on for 14 days now, and it does not look like it will be over soon. In the first place, the guards were against minimum services. However, in view of the appalling safety situation in our penal institutions, I believe that adequate service is absolutely necessary there. In the meantime, we have to move on. I myself am mayor of a municipality with a large prison on its territory and I am well aware that the police capacity is currently insufficient. Moreover, the lack of police capacity is not only a problem in the police areas with a criminal establishment. Other police areas, for example, need to deliver policemen through the HyCap, so there too, daily police work is becoming more and more compromised. Preventive actions and checks are cancelled and, among other things, district work, detectives and permanence are under pressure. So it is clear that something must be done urgently. Public security is beginning to be compromised, while public security is the core task of the police. As a minister, you have a core task plan. It includes the direct monitoring service, a service which is not currently operational but which can be deployed in situations such as this. The recruitment of new policemen to the local police is also difficult. If all these factors had been met, we would now have more manpower. Mr Minister, taking into account the busy agenda of the next few weeks, I would ask you to guarantee basic police care in our police areas. Can you find a solution in the short term for prison security so that the police are relieved of this task? Quid with the rollout of the DAB? Will the police zones in the future be easier to get to local policemen? If the strike continues, will you consider as the ultimate means to allow temporary private security or to deploy military forces in the prisons so that they can contribute to security within the prison walls?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u15	Minister, in recent days prison workers have launched a widely followed strike movement in the country to defend their status and working conditions. I understand them perfectly. These movements have an impact on the functioning of our prisons but also on our police services, which have to replace the strike agents. Throughout the country, many police officers have been diverted from their missions to perform this exceptional service. Among them, a lot came from the local police. Minister, the federal government must stop postponing problems on local authorities. Otherwise, he must be able to finance them to carry out those missions. Yesterday you announced derisory figures regarding the recruitment of the future DAB and you suggested that local police came far in the order of priorities. Minister, what measures do you intend to take to compensate police areas for the missions that you discharge on them too easily?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as every year, this is a time when the workload of the police services is high. It is the season of festivals and, moreover, many festivities bringing together many people are organized. In addition to this, strike action is currently taking place in prisons, which represent an additional burden for the entire police force, for both the local and the federal police. In such a situation, there are two mechanisms to support local areas. On the one hand, the HYCAP system has been reorganized and, on the other, the Federal Reserve. What is actually happening on the ground? The HyCap system works and all police zones participate. The federal reserve's been interfering with 371 fte's for the last 15 days. I invite the police areas that would be in capacity problems to sit around the table together to see how we can solve the problems in concrete terms through the deployment of the federal reserve and others. Mr Wilrycx, you have made two pertinent remarks. On the one hand, on the SAB, which must provide a solution for this and, on the other hand, on the recruitment policy. I'm usually the man to name man and horse. The recruitment to the federal police isn't working as it should. As I explained a few times in committee, we have therefore had KPMG review the recruitment policy. Recruitment is now being reorganised in a very different way, because it needs to become more effective. The vacancies are there, the budget to fill that is there, but the recruitment is not running smoothly enough but the reorganisation is ongoing. As far as the SAB is concerned, we're on schedule. The DAB is now being launched and those involved are taking part in the training. We started in March and in September the first trained people were there, after which they will follow every month. We have given priority to the security of nuclear power stations. The military who are now monitoring the nuclear power stations will be replaced by the first people of the SAB. The aim is to relieve the local police by transferring the security force to the SAB and supplementing it with the people of the SAB. In this way, local police taxation is a thing of the past. After all, that is a major burden for local authorities today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. A special situation requires special commitment. Our police officers realize that and cooperate well, but at some point HYCAP reaches its limits, which is why it pays extra attention to recruitment and the DAB. The further development of the SAB is absolutely necessary. Some will be happy to hear your offer to consult with the chiefs, for it is they who have raised the alarm. They fear that basic care can no longer be offered. In addition, there is the emergency cry of the prison directors. They fear that the safety of the working guards, of the police deployed and of the detainees may be compromised. In the short term, some important measures will be needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answer. All in all, you're making the same observation as I am. You admit that there are problems, but you don't necessarily succeed in solutions. You say you have to sit around the table. I'll give you a little example. This morning, they call in my area to say: "It will take two officers on Sunday morning, 8:30 a.m., to prepare a meeting at NATO level!" We are systematically confronted with fait accompli, which leads to a whole series of organisational problems and, therefore, to the level of services to citizens. I regret to say so, but since this government is in place, there are no longer any cuts and staff shortages at all levels of the police and, systematically, the bill is sent to the municipalities and the various areas. Often, minister, it is said – and it is a lapalissade –: "When they are in prisons, our police officers are not close to the citizens." And to the sluggish question, "But, what does the police do?", I often want to reply: "Often, it fills the gaps of the government on the backs of our communes and the security of our citizens".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u19	Minister, a racist attack was committed in Anderlues on a woman, in 2018, in Belgium, which should be characterized by effective and effective measures to combat violence against women and to combat racism. This is obviously unskillable and intolerable. Minister, I will ask you two questions. Combating violence against women was a priority of your Government. It must be noted that, in the area of police, no concrete preventive policy has been carried out. Do you now have an agenda for the remaining months? If so, with what actions? Second question. This aggression was committed against a woman, but let us not be afraid of words, this aggression, in addition to addressing the woman as a woman, was also a racist aggression. Here, too, our government committed itself to combating discrimination and racism. Again, there is a need to consider the steps that have been taken to achieve prevention policies. We must also ask ourselves - and this must be a question to you, Minister - about the impact of the context, which has been created in our country and which has always been present in recent years and in recent months, in terms of fear, rejection and sometimes hatred towards those who are different from us. Mr Minister, you are in charge of the interior and as such, you are the guarantor of living together in Belgium and of living together between all the men and women who live here. That's where I'm asking you today. What are you going to do in practice to prevent and prevent this kind of particularly serious drift?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, first of all, as everyone here I think, I would like to say how disgusted I am by such serious criminal acts. [[Applause]] As you know, the investigation is still under way. No conclusion as to the reasons can already be drawn. While we may have some ideas about this, the results of the reason survey are not yet known. You're asking me questions about the preventive actions taken by the police. First of all, I must say that we live in a complex country. Many elements of a policy of prevention, outside the police, fall within the competence of the Communities: training, youth, sport... I cannot rule on these matters. For me, within the police, the mechanism of prevention is the neighborhood agent. It's the branch of the police, the branch of the society in the various neighborhoods. Neighbourhood agents must develop a clear picture of what is happening in a neighbourhood and bring it back to the police and local authorities. The latter can then take action. I think the neighborhood agent is the key element. You are talking about racism and the mixed society in which we live. We know very well that the composition of the police is not a reflection of our society. For this reason, we launched a pilot recruitment project in Antwerp two years ago. We did the evaluation and proposed to generalize this approach, because it works. This recruitment can still be improved, so that the police force is in the image of our society. The neighbourhood officer and, more generally, the police force must reflect our society. These two steps taken together will enable us to make progress in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u21	Minister, we share the feeling of horror and disgust at the act that has been committed. Even if an investigation is under way, however, the victim is a woman, whose characteristics must attract our attention so that we can carry out substantial policies, both with regard to women and people from other cultures. We can only agree with the two provisions you mention (the presence of neighbourhood agents and the diverse recruitment of police officers), designed to better meet the expectations of the population. Nevertheless, I understand that all police areas note the lack of means to achieve these objectives. In my opinion, we need to go even further. I would like to remind colleagues and the government that we tabled a motion for a resolution on 8 March last in plenary, during which we asked the Prime Minister why our country was still unable to implement its equality and non-discrimination laws by introducing a "women's rights" process. The Prime Minister supported this proposal. It's really time to start this process. In this way, we could better identify indicators of violence and act effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u22	Mr President, with regard to the order of business, I wanted to put a question on the same subject today and I was informed in the services that a debate had already taken place yesterday on this subject, and my question is therefore not admissible. I find today that there is a new element which justifies the acceptance of Mr Calvo's question, and I would have liked to have been able to join him on two supplementary questions, even though they were rejected this morning by the services. I trust the services with regard to the debate, of course, but I would have liked to have been able to ask these two supplementary questions to the Minister of the Interior and I ask you to accept that I join the inquiry, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you, first of all, that it is not the responsibility of the services that is involved, but I myself have made the decision. Secondly, I was informed, Mr de Lamotte, that you yourself withdrew your question. And this because you were told - and you were apparently convinced - that there was no new element in this case, while the collaborators of the Ecolo-Groen group brought me a new element. We thought about it, discussed it and decided that there was a new element, hence the presence of Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u24	Mr President, I, too, had tabled a question on this subject. I was told, as Mr de Lamotte said, that there was a debate on this issue yesterday and that the same debate could not be held twice. That is what Mr de Lamotte and I decided not to do. But if you have decided that it was possible, it was only a small one to tell us that a question would be asked about this. Mr President, if Mr Calvo had tabled his question a little earlier, before us, our two questions would have been accepted. I understand that it is not obvious to the services, but when you decided that the question could continue, you had to at least inform us both that the question went ahead so that our group could judge whether we still wanted to ask this question or one of our other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u25	Mrs Temmerman, I am surprised to hear that your question was not clear, but I specifically asked Mr de Lamotte to inform us that Mr Calvo's question went ahead. After some time, yes. We have discussed and thought about this. We have looked at the documents and we have accepted the question. It's not a pharmacist's business here. If the Minister can live with it, I'd like to add your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u26	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u27	Once is not customary. If you want it, it's okay. The same goes for you, Mrs. Temmerman. You will, of course, decide for yourself. Again, I didn't even know about your question. Mrs. Kitir knows that, because I let her know I didn't know about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u28	Mrs Kitir also replied to you that we have tabled that question. You did not reply to that after that. Mr President, what is your proposal? We have two other questions. I don't want to get rid of a colleague's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u29	It's not a pharmacist's business here. It won't come to those four minutes. You can add your questions. Okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u30	Mr President, in order to 'add a layer', if I may say so, we have not formally tabled a question, unlike Mr de Lamotte. However, from contact with the services, we have been told that it is not possible to table a topical issue because there has been a debate in committee in advance. We find that Mr Calvo is questioning the matter and we are told that there is a new element. The least I could do was to inform us. If it is a matter of bringing a new element - I have no doubt about Mr Calvo's creativity - we could perhaps also have formulated things in such a way that the question is admissible. This is a matter of concern to all of our citizens and it would not have been inappropriate to ensure that each of the groups wishing to do so could raise a question. Mr President, it seems to me that there is something to be corrected for the next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u31	I'll think about that. But again, I can't respond if I don't know that a question was submitted. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has held their ground. I looked at everything, including the report from yesterday's committee meeting, and effectively the element that was put forward was not discussed there. That is why Mr Calvo is standing here. We're not gonna make a big deal out of this. Anyone who wants to join can do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u32	Mr President, it is logical that this issue should concern many of our fellow Members. I am very pleased that my topical and urgent question almost gives rise to a topical debate. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I suspect you are less a fan of the Red Devils than myself and my group. It is still highly uncertain that the Red Devils will become world champions, but we already have a world title, that of the World Championship Unavailable Nuclear Power stations. A gold medal for De Bruyne and Hazard is still uncertain, but Goal and Tihange already have a gold medal in their pockets. A theme that should concern us is the issue of Tihange 3. Tihange 3 has been silent since March because of concrete rot. Recently there were construction errors, which apparently have been there since the start-up in the 80s. And now there is a new element that the chairman asked for, namely a leak in the same reactor. Colleagues, there were first concrete problems, then construction errors and now there is also a leak. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, that deserves our attention, of all of us and of you in particular as Minister for Nuclear Safety. We disagree on nuclear energy. Your party, your group, wants to keep the nuclear power stations open as long as possible. Our group wants to close them down as soon as possible. However, we can agree with each other in the fight for nuclear safety when it comes to the demand for greater transparency and for an operator involved, and we agree with each other on a regular basis. Mr Vice-President, I do not understand how things like this can only be established now. Construction errors that have occurred since the installation in the 1980s are only now being discovered. I don't understand. How is it that these things have only just been discovered? Secondly, what is your reaction to the new element, the leak? After the concrete rot and the construction errors, there is now the leak. What will happen to that? What are the findings for the time being? This new element we read today in Le Soir. Finally, a number of plants have already been investigated for concrete problems. We find similar problems in Objective 3. The Objective 4 and Tihange 2 plants have not yet been investigated. What are the plans for that? This really deserves our attention. Without wishing to cause a panic, these are fundamental problems with our nuclear power stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u33	Minister, there are new elements on this issue. These events happen regularly and we are concerned. Today, there are reinforcing problems in the concrete in Tihange 3. It is a major element that is discovered very late, after 33 years. There is also a security problem in Doel 3 bunker. This is not the first time we've talked about these concrete problems in power plants! Minister, how is it that the many controls conducted by the PSAN were unable to detect these anomalies earlier? Can you explain how such a thing could have passed below the radars? You recently sent a letter to Electrabel regarding the safety culture of its power plants. What about the AFCN's culture of anticipation of these problems? Do you find it normal that it took so long to find out? When I read the press releases on the AFCN website, I feel like I'm in front of a notary who takes note of a number of things by classifying the incidents!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u34	Thank you for my question, Mr President. Colleagues have sufficiently explained where the problem lies. We have now had to find out again and read in the newspaper this morning that there are other structural errors besides the concrete rot and that there is an additional leak. The big question, Minister, is, of course, what is the situation in the other power stations? Tihange 3 is now stationary, but there are two other plants that are constructed in the same way. The same structural errors will probably be found there too. It is now said that they will be investigated, but the power stations are still running. Will you also shut down those other power stations so that the investigation can happen properly? Mr Minister, how come it took so long to find out about these construction errors? A lot of people are very worried about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as construction and concrete are concerned, these elements were discussed in detail in committee yesterday. I therefore refer, in consultation with the chairman, to the report of yesterday's committee meeting. It contains the elements of answer. The new element you have introduced, Mr Calvo, is indeed a leak, not in the reactor, as you said, but in a valve in the steam outlet where all valves are located. If the steam from the generator cannot go to the turbine or condenser, then the valves must work. One of those valves is permanently leaking a small leak. Why has Tihange 3 been shut down? Not because there's a direct danger. Tihange 3 has been shut down because of the concrete problems. We are no longer sure that the bunker is still able to withstand an earthquake or a plane impact. So there are no acute problems in the sense that the power station would be a danger today. That's only true when there's a heavy external cause coming towards us. That's why Tihange 3 was shut down. That is also why every maintenance in the comparable other plants is controlled and the necessary actions taken. The fact that nuclear power stations are shut down so often is precisely proof of the decisive action taken by the FANC. For the operator, a stoppage is of course not nice, but the FANC accepts its responsibility. The smallest indication of possible danger, even in the most extreme circumstances, is followed by appropriate actions. I'm gonna keep doing that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u36	Thank you, Mr Vice Prime Minister, for your explanation. When I talk about the reactor, of course, I mean the whole plant. You, along with me, see that the problems follow. At first there were concrete problems, then construction errors. I share the surprise of colleagues who are wondering how it is possible, in the name of God, that such structural errors are only now being identified. In addition, there was another leak. I agree with you that there is no need to panic. So panic seeding isn't interesting at all. The reality is so serious that there is no need for exaggeration. What we're discussing today is on top of all the other incidents. We note that four of the seven reactors are at present stationary. Today, therefore, more nuclear power stations are being shut down than foreseen by the purple green law on the 2003 nuclear exit. This is all because our nuclear power plants are now working part-time and basically on a bridge pension. They need to be eliminated as soon as possible. Mr De Roover, as captain of the Nuclear Flemish Alliance, let this be an encouragement to take a number of measures, which your government promised, before the recess. Mr Vice-Prime Minister, I am addressing you to this point, because you are Deputy Prime Minister and you are in the cockpit. Several measures still need to be adopted or clarified in order to really roll out the energy pact with the core exit. All these incidents have to motivate us to make that decision. I hope to finally find an ally in the N-VA. It must be done with policy with the hand brake on. There are a lot of reasons to go for the core trip in full.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u37	Minister, thank you for your information and comments. The question arises of the total inspection of the plants as a result of these problems related to concrete. It is necessary in my view to undertake a real security culture approach at the level of Electrabel. I also come back to my question that you did not answer, but I will come back to it later, namely the culture of anticipation of the AFCN in relation to a number of issues that are accumulating in terms of safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u38	Of course, Minister, you did not answer the question about the other power stations. You only referred to your reply yesterday, but the new element can of course also be present in the other power stations. It is very clear, Minister: we are dealing with an outdated, unreliable, very dangerous form of energy. I would therefore urge you and your party to finally approve the Energy Pact and to make full use of alternatives, because what you are defending now is the energy of the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u39	Mr Vice Prime Minister, it is not the first time I have been here to express my fundamental concern about the situation in Poland. If I follow this, I get the impression it's going from evil to worse. We note that the rule of law is increasingly being violated. At first the lower courts were targeted, today the high court is next. Without pardon, a third of the judges, including the chairman, are de facto thrown out. Substitutes are then appointed by a political council. Colleagues, if this happens in Poland, we are right to ask ourselves where Europe is. It is incomprehensible to me that the European Union is looking at this quite powerless so far. The Commission has been talking for two years. People keep talking but they don't get results. In Poland it is said that the government does what the majority in parliament allows. There are no more checks-and-balances, one can actually speak of a dictatorship of the majority. Minister, I would like to congratulate you on your very recent visit and strongly condemn you. The launch of an infringement procedure at the European Court will be an important signal. The human rights situation, the democratic situation and the state of the rule of law should be the subject of some kind of permanent monitoring. We are already doing this in Europe for the budget. However, I believe that the situation of human rights, respect for the European Convention on Human Rights and the state of the rule of law actually require an annual evaluation report. That would apply to all Member States because I do not want to make a distinction. Yesterday we were talking about Spain, today we are talking about Poland, tomorrow we are talking about Hungary. We must avoid any selectivity in this respect. So I think that annual monitoring is very important. You share our view, Minister. What is the state of your demarches on this procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u40	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is founded on a community of values which are specified in the Treaties: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. It is these values, Minister, which today distinguish the European Union from a simple economic community of steel and coal. Today, the very essence of the European Union is human freedoms, human rights. So, Minister, how can we maintain the credibility of this strong political message? How can we put our demands for respect for the rule of law in dialogues with our partners if, within the European Union, we are not blameless? How can we impose far-reaching reforms on candidate countries if, once in the Union, these rules are no longer respected? While in Strasbourg the Polish Prime Minister defended the traditions of his judicial system, the European Commission finally launched infringement proceedings against Poland concerning Polish law governing the Supreme Court and questioning judicial independence. Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, do you think that the dialogue opened by the European Commission produces the desired results? What do you withdraw from the hearing held on June 26, 2018? What do you withdraw from your meeting with the Polish authorities on Tuesday? Have you been able to resolve any doubts about the fragility of the rule of law in Poland? Are we paying sufficient attention to challenges to the independence of judges in Romania, in the fight against corruption, or in Hungary? Finally, I repeat the question put by our colleague, Patrick Dewael. Do you still hope to implement this mechanism for dialogue on respect for human rights among all members of the Union? This is a proposal that you have initiated on which you have the full support of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u41	Mr President, Minister, it has been messing around in Poland for some time. Over the past week, thousands of citizens have come to the streets to protest against a new law that will bring the mandate of one third of the Supreme Court judges to an end. This will enable them to be replaced by government-minded judges. This law is yet another hollowing out of the Polish rule of law. The European Commission has therefore logically launched infringement proceedings against Poland. Minister, you have already responded this week and I would like to congratulate you on that. You responded in the presence of your Polish colleague, saying that you are very concerned about the situation in Poland, about the independence of the judiciary and about the rule of law. Just that independence of the judiciary and the rule of law are fundamental values of the European Union that bind us. The European Union is much more than an economic union, it is a union of shared values. I therefore fully share your plea for a peer review of all European countries on human rights and the rule of law. You have often put forward this proposal and you can count on our group's support for it. We believe that such peer review should be linked to a number of financial sanctions. Poland is the largest net recipient of European grants for the 2014-2020 budget period. Between 2015 and 2017, more than half of the public investment in Poland was paid with money from Europe. We therefore have a leverage to convince these countries of the principles of the rule of law and human rights and to enforce them. Minister, how do you see the situation and the protests in Poland evolving? Yesterday, a consultation took place in Brussels, in the presence of Poland, on the possibility of setting up a peer review. What are the results of this? Will compliance with the principles of the rule of law also be included in the criteria of the renewed European multi-annual budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u42	Minister, respect for the rule of law, democracy and human rights is and was the foundation for us as Social Democrats from the start of the European Union. Respect for these three values is not an option but the goddamn duty for every rule of law. For this reason, the sp.a in the various parliaments in Belgium, from the start EU Commissioner Frans Timmermans supported his watchdog function. Unfortunately, we were not followed then, not even in this Chamber, by some majority groups. I have a plan with my group. We believe that the protection of democracy in Europe must be strengthened. We are witnessing the emergence of some of the illiberal democracies. Our plan consists of four points. My question to the Foreign Minister is whether he would like to include the following four points in the discussion with his European colleague. Our first proposal will not be a problem because there is a fairly large degree of agreement with what I have heard from Mr Dewael and the Foreign Minister. We want to see a democratic stress test, in line with the stress test for the banks. Secondly, we need a truly independent European watchdog for democracy in the EU, led by a High Representative of Human Rights. Thirdly, resources from European funds must be reduced or even removed if there are serious infringements. Fourthly, we are in favour of a European fund for democracy, which should allow local civil society to be strengthened in those states where democracy, human rights and respect for the rule of law are at risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you were in Poland, where you met your counterpart. You've been there very clearly. You clearly expressed your concern there about the rule of law in Poland. Our group is also very clear on this issue. We share your concern. The new law adopted in Poland last Tuesday means that one in three judges must or can be reappointed. The law raises many questions. We want to see things cleared up. That is why our group has supported the Article 7 procedure. We have done so in the European Parliament through my colleague Sander Loones. We do that here in the Chamber. We support this procedure in order to clarify it. Ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that the procedure does not lead to an investigation against the Poles themselves. It must not look like a fight by the European Union against Poland or all against one. On the contrary, a good rule of law is not only in the interests of Poland but of the whole of the European Union. We must continue to support this, namely the common standards and values. Europe is not only a Union of pennies but also of standards and values. That is why it is important that this research is carried out. Minister, our group has already informed you that we are in line with the systematic monitoring of democratic functioning in all European Member States. We absolutely agree with that. However, I would like to make one comment. It is also the thought I make of Poland. We must be careful not to make the same mistake by being a judge and a party. We must open up monitoring and investigations, but we must ensure that we, the political groups, do not judge ourselves beforehand. If necessary, we would make the same mistake that we are now blaming Poland for. Minister, I would like to hear your views and your findings from your meetings over the last few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Poland is unacceptable. That's obvious. But there has been a reaction at European level, Mr Dewael. On 20 December 2017, the European Commission launched the first phase of Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union. The situation was discussed several times in the General Affairs Council. I have always supported the Commission in this process. At the latest General Affairs Council in May 2018, the Commission considered that it was impossible to proceed on the basis of the Polish Government's replies. Those answers are not enough. I read the amendments. They do not go far enough to say that the situation in Poland is now correct. So we will hold the hearing, and then there will be a decision at European level. I myself met the Polish Foreign Minister in Warsaw on 3 July, two days ago. I have also been in contact with a hundred Polish ambassadors in the Chamber to give my opinion, including on other points, but primarily on the situation of the rule of law. I think it is very important to conduct this dialogue on the ground, with the various relevant ministers and with a number of very important representatives of Poland. The next step is to determine the infringement of procedure by the latest decisions in Poland. Perhaps the European Court of Justice can do so in the short term. Of course I also support this infringement procedure which has been initiated by the Commission and which could perhaps lead the Court of Justice to rule on what the European Union is ultimately about. The European Union is not simply the geographical gathering of a few states. It is a political choice based on values. That is why we are making sure that the procedures can be carried out with regard to Poland. You called him back, that won't be enough. We will see how these procedures can succeed. New mechanisms must be added. More than two years ago, at the beginning of 2016, I tabled a proposal for peer review on the General Affairs Council table. I said it several times here. We spend our time examining – and we must do this – in detail the budgets of each of the Member States. We must also examine the rule of law, democracy and human rights in all Member States, without any discrimination, also here. We need to be very clear on this. Where are we? I have had many meetings with several colleagues on this subject, many technical preparations. Yesterday we organised a seminar in Brussels with 27 EU Member States, without Britain in view of the Brexit. We now have the agreement of a majority of countries to move forward. I hope that it will be possible to start before the next European elections. It is very important to have a preventive mechanism. After all, we must not wait for a real problem to arise in Poland or another country before taking action. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to systematically support the Commission's efforts to put an end to the situation in Poland today. We will continue this work day after day, in order to secure the establishment of this permanent system of control of the rule of law. We are doing this at the United Nations and the Council of Europe. We must also be able to do so within the European Union. It is all the more important that Europe is based on values, as we must demonstrate. But in this Europe, we must be able to do the work in our own home, if we want to gain some credibility outside. Many Europeans give lessons on human rights around the world. Let us have the courage to look at the situation in all European states without discrimination! Since it is also my responsibility, I will tell you that it is also important for the internal market. This is often forgotten, but if we want to retain the presence of investors in the various European countries, they must have confidence in independent national justice systems. As I said to the Polish ambassadors, if this is not the case, this internal market will no longer have the capacity to function fully. For all these reasons, this debate on Poland is fundamental, but the debate on a permanent mechanism is all the more so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I welcome your commitment to this matter more than anything else. A number of these countries have passed the Communist yoke and have entered Europe enthusiastically. They must, of course, be aware that they have ended up in a European Union that stands for a rule of law, a system of separation of powers and respect for human rights. I cheered at the time when a large majority of Poland decided by referendum to go to the European Union. The Polish Government is systematically saying today that the majority of the population supports it. One cannot worship one and the other at the same time. If one joins a club, one is welcome, but one should respect the statutes of that club. If this is not the case, a red card must inevitably be drawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u46	Minister, thank you for your response and for your determination on this issue, which you have already demonstrated on several occasions. I have several informations from your answer. First of all, you have expressed your willingness to unblock the situation in Poland. I repeat that the Polish people are genuinely European and, as such, deserve to be part of the European Union. That is why the current events are deeply disturbing and regrettable, especially if one remembers the history of Poland, which Patrick Dewael has just recalled, during which she suffered Nazi and communist yokes. This country will have known everything. We are still surprised to see this journey towards the abolition of the rule of law. Another essential element of your response is your wish to reach this evaluation mechanism before the next European elections. Finally, in the name of your competence in terms of foreign trade, you have stressed that, if investors are to be sought, they must be able to have confidence in independent justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u47	Mr President, Minister, it has been said several times, the European Union is more than an economic union, it is a union of shared values. This is also very clear in Article 2 of the European Treaty, which clearly refers to respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law. That is important and that is what it is about. Respect for these basic values, respect for the rule of law, that is what we are talking about. That is of fundamental importance. Of fundamental importance for the functioning of the Union, of fundamental importance for the cohesion of the Union, but also for the credibility of the Union. You said it yourself just now, and it is entirely right that we impose on others, what we do in the rest of the world, we must, above all, respect ourselves. That is why I am particularly pleased that you say that great progress has been made yesterday, that the majority of countries agree with the proposal to set up a peer review. In any case, you can count on our group to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u48	Mr President, Minister, first of all, I welcome your commitment to establishing a peer review mechanism. We support you in that. However, we will continue to insist on our three other proposals, namely a High Representative, a fund and the possibility of an adapted sanction mechanism. Secondly, I would like to address you, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA. I would ask you to listen carefully to the judgment of the Venice Commission on the Supreme Court law. The Venice Commission says: 'A striking agreement with the institutions that existed in the Soviet Union and its satellite states'. Ladies and gentlemen, party political democratic hygiene begins with the necessary selectivity towards parties you include in your parliamentary group. This Party, Law and Justice, is part of the same group as the N-VA. Colleagues of the N-VA, you have a job to do here. I also hope that you will not accept that the Swedish Democrats, a racist anti-immigrant party, join your group in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u49	Minister, you have our support. We are very clear in this matter, as I have just said, and you have also repeated it, quite rightly. You are also right that an efficient legal system is important not only for Poland, but also for investors, for the Flemish and Walloon companies that are going to work there. So you have our support. Mr van der Maelen, we are very clear in the Belgian and European Parliament: we supported the procedure for Article 7 in relation to the group. I don't hear you say that. We are very clear about that. I also think that Europe and everyone should speak very clearly in order to defend those rights of democracy, always and everywhere, in Poland, but also in Spain, also in Catalonia, where for 260 days Catalan citizens have not yet been convicted, I have not heard the sp.a say about them being locked up, without trial, simply because they have organised a referendum. I haven't heard the sp.a convict yet. [[Tumult]] So I don't have any lessons to get from you over two sizes and two weights. Do your homework first!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u50	Mr President, Minister, yesterday was the Fourth of July, so no better time to take a look at the United States. This week, Dutch Prime Minister Rutte visited. In his conversation with President Trump, he took the opportunity to advance the airport at Schiphol Airport as the ideal location for a pre-clearance office. A pre-clearance office is nothing but a move forward from normal American border controls to European soil. The American border control officers come to handle the tedious paperwork and the lengthy questionnaires at European airports, so that on arrival in the United States the waiting lists become much shorter, leading to happy passengers and thus to satisfied airlines. Apparently, President Trump was won for the idea. At present Dublin is the only capital city in Europe with a pre-clearance office, which does not make it windy when it comes to passenger flights to the United States. In 2016, it was announced that such an agreement could also be launched for the Brussels National Airport. You then also took on the coordination of the negotiations. An expected landing date for the cooperation agreement was foreseen in 2018. Unfortunately, we have not heard much of that since then. This is not only useful and pleasant for passengers, but it would also be an absolute plus for Brussels National Airport. Of course, we do not want the American airlines to move their flights to Schiphol or to stop passengers from departing from Brussels-National and certainly not to lose jobs in our airport. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What is the status of this cooperation agreement? Since the Netherlands is lurking, are there opportunities to speed up the agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u51	Mr President, Mrs Capoen, we are negotiating this very important project. It is not an ordinary customs post, it is a bilateral agreement between the US and Belgium which introduces a migration control system at Zaventem airport for US immigration and customs officials. Passengers with the US as destination would be subject to US immigration and customs control prior to their boarding, so that they would be treated on arrival in the US just like passengers departing from a national US flight. If there are no more immigration or customs controls in the US, this will save passengers considerable time. This is very important for Zaventem airport and also for the various airlines flying to cities in the United States. A similar system was already introduced, as you mentioned, for flights between Ireland and the US. That's the only thing so far. Negotiations between the US and other European countries, for example the Netherlands, are at an advanced stage. For Belgium, the advantage of this system is that travellers are given more certainty about being admitted to the territory when they arrive in the US. Therefore, the airports that will introduce it and the airlines operating from those airports will benefit from a comparative advantage. The United States has provided us with a draft text of agreement. I have been in contact with the colleagues concerned, including the powers of customs, police and migration. There are a number of limits to the possible introduction of this mechanism, especially with regard to airport security measures. So in June 2018, we held consultations with all the Belgian authorities involved and we submitted a counter-proposal to the US. I hope it will be possible to reach an agreement with the airport, with our partners in the US and with all colleagues in Belgium. Our response has been sent and we await the comments of the United States. I hope it will be possible to conclude an international agreement between the US and Belgium, and perhaps Belgium or the second or third country will become with an airport with such a system, but we still have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u52	Thank you for your reply, Minister. You're busy, but we can't delay. We must sign an agreement as soon as possible, because there are many airports nearby, on a small surface. It is very easy for airlines to move flights away from Zaventem. Surely we must not lose this competition? We must keep the American airlines in Zaventem. On this one, Minister, I'll give you a proverbial kick in the ass. Make it quick.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u53	Mr President, Minister, when we take stock of this legislature, we will probably say that Mr Koen Geens was the minister of prisons on strike. We still remember the many strikes, especially the 59 days of 2016. Why all this? To make promises that you have not kept, minister. Today, prison officers are clearly angry because of this situation and your willingness to deny their right to strike. There have been negotiations again this morning, about which I assume you will give us some information. Indeed, if we read the press, the results of these negotiations are not clear. Who is responsible for the situation in prisons today? It is clearly the government, Minister. Indeed, you invoke the reasons of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture. This is not very credible because the government only gives importance to the rights of detainees at one time, when it can break strikes, when it can use this argument as a pretext to tackle strikes. Yet there is a daily reality, Minister. I want to talk about the lack of recurrent staff, the catastrophic hygiene in prisons, rats big as cats, diseases that arise in prisons, families that have to spend whole days to get 45 minutes of access. Who is responsible for all this, minister? Prison officers? No. It's the government. Here, you put forward the requisition. Not only do you impose a minimum service, but also with requisition, which is the very denial of the right to strike. Indeed, an agent will not be able to decide whether or not to strike since he may be requisitioned. Who's gonna decide? Obviously, the governor, the minister, the prison director, in any case, always persons who belong to the executive power, who is, therefore, judge and party. This does not happen in hospitals where there is no one to replace the medical staff on strike. Here, there's the police or civil protection to replace the guards. Minister, the unions took a step with their proposal for an intermittent strike. Do you meet this proposal? You know that the requisition is unacceptable to the unions. Do you intend to reconsider your position? Why, in the event of a strike, does the police not perform the benefits you require from the guards? Finally, will you keep your 2016 promises with a budget envelope to maintain, for example, the 7,075 full-time equivalents you promised? Are there new budget margins?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u54	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, it is true that the government, at its Council of Ministers on 15 June, has reached a preliminary draft law on the status of prison officers and on the minimum service. I forwarded this text to the trade unions from 17 June and held formal consultations with the trade unions on 26 and 28 June and on 2, 3 and 5 July. This morning, we closed the formal consultation. The unions now have time, until July 26, to transmit their formal comments on the government's preliminary draft, which is in progress. I believe that the informal consultation that I have had with many actors on the ground, including trade unions, as well as formal consultation, have nevertheless borne fruit. Everyone knows that we must try to reconcile the right of prison officers to strike with the minimum services to which prisoners are entitled. Yes, I am fully prepared to implement the commitments I made in Protocol 464. You know this is a 6 825 frame. You mentioned another number, which is no longer relevant at this time. We are doing everything we can to fulfil this promise. I am continuing the dialogue in a constructive spirit and I hope that we will succeed. Maybe the epithet you gave me will ever change. I hope that you and I will still be of this world.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u55	Minister, the unions say in the press that they did not receive the final draft. You say you've committed to the 6,825. Does that mean that you have asked for an additional budget margin?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u56	That's not necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u57	Okay, but for the 7,075 you haven't kept your promises yet, why should you be trusted for the 6,825? You repeat that it is necessary to reconcile the right to strike with the minimum service to detainees by once again trying to oppose agents and detainees while they have common interests, starting with the end of inhuman prisons in Belgium. This is not just the days of strike, but every day of the year. We've had enough of your double speech! When there is a strike, you pretend to care about the situation of the detainees; when it is not a strike, the prisons remain in a lamentable state and the promises of employment are not kept. The government uses this pretext to wage a legitimate fight against the right to strike. He was seen in trials in Antwerp against railwaymen or prison officers. This government is both anti-social and anti-democratic.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u58	Madam Secretary, the budget for medicines is derailed. In recent years, an additional EUR 400 million was needed, now another EUR 300 million. Today, you're finally admitting these derailments. In addition, you immediately announce that you will not save on cancer patients. Of course, that sounds very sympathetic, Madam Minister, but there is absolutely no one here to ask you to do so. What have we been asking for a long time? We have been asking you to respect the Farma Pact for a long time. You signed a contract with the pharmaceutical sector in 2015. We thought that was a very good thing at the time. But if the budget for that pact is not respected, you are in fact doing nothing. We now have the impression that the whole pact is just a piece of paper. No one asks you to meet the patients. No one is asking you to stop the refunds. However, we ask that the gifts to the pharmaceutical sector be stopped. Your Farmapact may have been intended as a gift to the patients, but today it is mainly a gift to the pharmaceutical sector. Madam Secretary, under your policy, the budget for secret contracts with the pharmaceutical sector has increased to EUR 1 billion. I repeat that there is EUR 1 billion for contracts that are not allowed to see the sunlight! EUR 1 billion will be spent on contracts in which the pharmaceutical sector determines the rules and not the government! Madam Secretary, you must put an end to this situation. You must make the pharmaceutical sector responsible. My questions are very simple. Will you refund the pharmaceutical industry's excess? Are you willing to be more transparent about the secret contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u59	Mr President, Madam Minister, this morning the press is heading for a deficit of EUR 300 million in the budget for medicines and, in particular, those related to immunotherapy used in oncology. According to my information, the budgets of the other health care sectors are perfectly controlled. Can you confirm this information? What is the reason for the shortfall in the drug budget? You talked about immunotherapy but a whole series of other drugs would also be responsible for this slipping. On the other hand, Madam Minister, with regard to this slippage, are these the medicines that are the subject of the famous Article 81 conventions – these secret and direct agreements that you negotiate with the pharmaceutical companies yourself? I still have two additional questions which, in my view, are questions of principle. Can you commit yourself here, even though among the other actors and the other sectors of health care the budgets are controlled, that the patients do not suffer the consequences, even if they are concerned by these famous medicines that cause the slipping? It would not be acceptable for patients to be sanctioned with reduced reimbursements. Can you make a commitment that other health care actors will not be involved even though they have already made enormous efforts and experienced significant savings? It is not up to them to compensate for the slippage of the pharmaceutical sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u60	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, some colleagues complained earlier that they had tried to put a question and that it was not on the agenda. I had not tabled it, and it is coming up with a committee, but it is in direct news, and so you will not be caught up with it, like my colleagues. Minister, I was interested in the overrun of the pharmaceutical industry. An overrun of 267 million from an initial budget of 4 billion, which is already not an ordinary budget! The main source of the budgetary "hole" is the increase in the costs associated with the Article 81 conventions, to which reference has just been made, relating to so-called "innovating" medicines. We are very clear: we must continue to develop new medicines and be able to make them available quickly to patients, especially for the treatment of cancer. This is very clear, but we have also been denouncing a form of opacity for a long time. Opacity around pricing, but sometimes also the very utility of certain so-called "innovating" treatments. This is a question that we have often referred to. We are not the only ones since the KCE said last year: "Their benefits, today, are clear for the pharmaceutical world, but they are less and less clear for public payers, especially in the long term." Today's press headlines on the success of immunotherapy in the treatment of cancer patients. An overrun of 300 million euros, it is said. These treatments are essential: they save lives, and improve the quality of life of patients on a daily basis. Madam Minister, as far as we are concerned, it is totally unimaginable to plan this budget! My questions are clear. Is it also unimaginable for you that this essential budget is being allocated or are you still going to undermine access to health care? It is also unimaginable for us – and I conclude, Mr President – not to review these agreements under Article 81. Do you follow us the same way? This budget is a question of balance, interest and political choices. Your people have not always reassured us in the past and I expect you to explain how you plan to manage your budget today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u61	According to RIZIV's technical estimates released Monday morning, the expenditure on medicines in 2018 amounts to 4.4 billion euros. That is an overrun of more than EUR 300 million against the budget. The expenditure on medicines in 2019 is estimated to be still EUR 200 million higher. The strong increase compared to 2018 is mainly in the field of cancer treatment in hospitals. No, Mrs Fonck, that's not true, there are also slippages in other budgets. For example, medical homes have a ten million slip. The increase in expenditure on oncological medicines is a consequence of the many innovative medicines for the treatment of cancer that have been made available to Belgian patients with cancer, and of the greater expenditure on immunotherapy. It is true that in comparison with conventional chemotherapy, this innovative class of medicines better heals patients and provides a significant increase in their lifespan, as well as an improvement in their quality of life. I took the initiative to speed up the reimbursement of these medicines as soon as the European Medicines Agency indicated the new registration. Moreover, the Court requested the accelerated reimbursement of such medicinal products in the resolution of Mrs Somers and Mr Vercammen, which was also adopted by Mrs Jiroflée in 2016. Other good medicines are on the way, for example the CAR-T therapy in 2019, which delivers magnificent results for the patients, albeit with a high price tag. Yes, so spending has increased, just because the new therapies can save and improve so many lives. The figures are: over 4 500 cancer patients have been treated with immunotherapy for the last two years. The forecast for the next five years is that at least 22 000 more will be added. Let me be clear: I will not cut into that. I won't do that. I'm a stubborn person, if that's what it's about. So I won't do that. During the period of the Pact of the Future, a budget path had been agreed, allowing for a 0.5 per cent increase in the drug budget, unlike the general health care budget, which grew by 1.5 per cent. Mrs Jiroflée, we have kept to the pact. There have been overruns every year. However, they have also been repaid by the sector every year. So no less than EUR 2.4 billion has been returned to the state budget thanks to the FarmaPact from the pharmaceutical sector. That is EUR 2.4 billion for the duration of the three-year pact. Mrs Jiroflée, you call that a gift! Well, I would also like to receive such a gift. So your claim is clearly false. The clawback, the sales tax, the refunds and other mechanisms exist only for the pharmaceutical sector and are also aggravated by the price reductions that the Pact brought about. We are also talking here about so-called secret contracts, contracts in accordance with Article 81. Mr Frédéric, with regard to secret contracts, may I remind you that it is your colleague, Mrs Onkelinx, present here, who installed, and rightly so, the secret contracts (Article 81) in 2010? The author is a socialist minister. I did the same. In all countries around us there can be secret contracts, because the pharmaceutical companies are in a competitive situation. Despite Article 81 contracts, we have lower prices for patients and better access to therapies. What's the alternative? Is the alternative that we, as the only country, do not do so and thus deny our patients access to the new resources? If that is what you want, and I am specifically addressing Mrs Jiroflée, who has the mouths of a two-speed health care system, perhaps the rich can take care of themselves abroad and create or die our people here. I'll pass for that. I'm not in on that. I repeat that contributions must be made for the rest of the pharmaceutical industry in order to eliminate the deficit. For cancer treatments, however, I would ask for an exception from my colleagues in the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u62	Madam Minister, all the figures you have quoted are probably correct, but despite all the mechanisms, there are exceedances. They should come back, too. However, you refuse to abide by that obligation in the pharmaceutical sector. We ask that we do not cut down on cancer treatments. We ask that we do not cut down on immune medication and new cancer treatments. That's not our question. We are, of course, in favour of everything that helps the patient, but we have already warned a number of times that this would be much more expensive than it was estimated. The government has apparently taken up its wishes for reality in the drafting of the various budgets and has estimated the costs far too low. The most important thing, Madam Secretary, is that there is more clarity and transparency about the secret negotiations on new medication. This must, of course, be done in a European context. Only then will it be possible to draw up a proper budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u63	Thank you for your answer, Minister. So you're not going to get funding for immunotherapy. He wouldn't have missed anything but that! Patients who now benefit from immunotherapy - and we know that there will be more and more of them tomorrow and the day after, given the evolution of scientific studies in this field - must also be protected as well as patients suffering from serious disease(s). These famous Article 81 conventions, which are secret negotiations and at your discretion with the pharmaceutical sector, do seem to me to be necessary at times. That is why this system has been put in place. However, it begins to question when the exception becomes a generality and when one begins to use always, or increasingly, this way of these famous conventions Article 81 for more and more medicines. In this regard, fundamental questions arise. In fact, all health care providers are responsible for overruns, since they must repay both the pharmaceutical sector and the pharmaceutical sector, because a rule limits their liability to a maximum recovery of 2.5% of the excess expenditure. This year, however, this rate is well above 2.5%. I'll just end with a little word. You have once again castigated the medical houses by highlighting their 10 million euro slippage. According to my information, this slip is 3.3 million euros. We will see that when the budget is examined. History will tell us the truth. What is certain is that I sometimes feel like you have the hard tooth, specifically with the medical homes when it's an actor like the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u64	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer: you will not receive funding for immunotherapy and you categorically refuse to reduce the budget allocated to health care further during the coming summer conclave. I love – and I say it loud and clear – your apparent firmness. I will obviously check the results. So you should know that my group is behind you to support you in this process with your government colleagues. We will analyse with interest the agreements that you will reach. In your answer, you told me that you defined yourself as a stubborn and obstinate woman. That's a lot, but let's admit it! For my part, I am rather wary and cautious. The last time you told us we'd be out of health care was last year. However, it was about a $1 billion saving over the year that was decided. I know you assign a great deal of responsibility to my excellent colleague Laurette Onkelinx. In this case, however, it has nothing to do with it. You promised you'd take savings to the scalpel. Instead, I observed the use of the axe or chainsaw in the health care budget. Every day, these savings hit workers in the hospital sector, of course, but above all the sick, the most fragile. My concerns therefore remain acute. Good courage in the negotiations, but we will quickly assess them!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u65	Mr Secretary of State, a new series of import duties for Chinese products in the US, hundreds of billions of dollars in import duties for goods from Canada, from Europe, from Mexico. Trump's records announce them or they're already in. The newspapers headline "official trade war." We're clearly in a negative spiral. If we slide further down, that trade war might be a scenario. For that, we, as Flemings, shudder as pioneers of free trade. The European Commission reacted proportionally and balanced with a number of targeted measures that should affect the US President electorally, but for the time being he is not really impressed. Mr Secretary of State, the US President considers our commercial practices unfair. He says our rates are too high. Whether that is correct or legitimate, we can debate this, but it seems to me above all that this should be clarified at the negotiating table. Our group therefore believes that a comprehensive trade agreement between the US and the EU is the solution. The TTIP has been in the refrigerator since 2016 and evaporates due to protectionism along both sides of the ocean. It is essential to return to a new partnership, a free trade agreement in agreement and in dialogue. We believe that both the American and European economies have to gain from this. Mr Secretary of State, at the end of July, President Juncker and Mrs Malmström will be leaving for Washington at the request of the President. Will our government increase the pressure to seek a de-escalation in this conflict? Will the government at European level work for a stocktaking of common European and American interests that can serve as a basis for a new agreement? Will the government support Commissioner Oetttinger's call not to let us break up, to strengthen the internal market and to speak with a voice on the international stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u66	Mrs. Bellens, you've made a lot of interesting remarks. I will keep my answer very brief. I still want to talk about a tariff war because there are actually no real trade embargos yet. In other words, it is not the case that certain goods can no longer be imported by one country or exported by another. The trade dispute we are actually experiencing or its appearance is, first and foremost, a major conflict with regard to trade between the United States and China. China's dollar-for-dollar response plays a major role in this. As far as our short-term trade relations are concerned, I think we should avoid an escalation. You spoke of a de-escalation. We can avoid an escalation by providing security for our companies. I do not want to go on a march of folly, on a path of madness, to unilaterally announce trade barriers or embargoes in Europe and also for Belgian companies. I want to take into account at all times the American jobs or the jobs created by American companies in Belgium. That's about 130 000. Secondly, in the medium term, I would like to continue working on the permanent campaign to maintain our good relations with the US authorities. I want to ensure that, with a number of parameters, we can convince the economic key players at state level that protectionism hinders trade and mutual gross domestic product. We all know to what extent protectionism has led to economic crises. That is why I am also working on diversifying our markets. Free trade agreements with, for example, India but also with Canada and Japan create new opportunities. This is also very important for our companies for whom even the large trading partners, for example the Netherlands, Germany and France, are also major competitors. These free trade agreements are creating more and more room for our companies. In the long term, I would like to work towards an economic NATO. That economic NATO may be based on what has been agreed in the Transatlantic Trade Agreement between the European Union and the United States. There are still a lot of valuable pieces in there. If we can link this large consumer market that is the European Union to the most important economies in the world, the Canadian, the American and the Mexican united in NAFTA, then I believe that Belgium is doing the best for our companies. What is important is the NATO summit which announces where world leaders will meet. I hope that there will also be a trade section on the agenda when President Trump is here next weekend.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u67	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You're talking about a tariff war. Indeed, after steel and aluminum, the Trump administration is now targeting the car market. The question is what it will be next week. Since Flanders has a large share, as much as 88 %, of that car market, it seems to us very important and but normal that Flanders should be better involved in that trade and in the positioning. In our view, this is the perfect opportunity to adapt the old cooperation agreement of 24 years ago on the EU position. Trade is still referred to as category 1 or exclusive federal matter in Belgium. This is not in line with the current constitutional reality. For the N-VA Group, the focus of trade is on the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u68	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we are complying with our internal legislation with the European provisions for the protection of private data – we worked late enough Tuesday night in the Justice Committee – and after the Cambridge Analytica scandal, we learned today morning through the press that Google and its employees have access to our private emails. There are two elements to this problem. On the one hand, app developers already have access to emails. It is true that this is required in the general conditions of use, but are they sufficiently read and sufficiently informed about the consequences of the latter? On the other hand, Google acts a little in the same way by asking if we accept that it can use, in certain cases and under very specific conditions, our email address. I quote: "... in very specific cases when you ask us and give your consent or when we will need it for security purposes such as bug investigations or abuse." Mr Secretary of State, in addition to this information published in the press, were you informed of this option for Google employees to have access to e-mails? Do you consider that this practice, even if it is the subject of prior agreement, is in conformity with the Constitution's requirement that correspondence be inviolable and that it is reinforced by Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights? Despite the fact that this consent is freely given, do you feel that the information is sufficiently clear and that the user is sufficiently informed to give the consent? In this context, even if it is an independent body, do you have any information about what the Data Protection Authority intends to do? What do you intend to do about this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u69	Mr President, my colleague, the compliance of this Google practice will be examined by the Data Protection Authority. Indeed, this matter falls within the competence of this independent body. However, I asked her what she could do in this specific case and, if necessary, take an initiative to initiate litigation. Beyond this legal issue, you have rightly raised the issue of the clear information that needs to be given to each user so that they can understand what their consent or the contract submitted implies. On the Google website that I have consulted, the company confirms the existence of this practice while justifying it by citing the fact that the user's consent is given or that access is justified for security reasons. It seems to me that the real issue in this case is information and transparency. It cannot be denied that Google makes the information available in English on its website. It can no longer be denied that it also allows different users to manage accesses in the different modes and types of applications that have access to them. However, it is not really clear that these third-party e-mail consultations are by default unauthorized. That is exactly what the new European regulation is asking for. Whenever information is collected, it must be done in a minimum manner to give the possibility of providing the service. However, I am not sure that in this case this section of the Rules of Procedure is formalized. I will therefore ask the Data Protection Authority to check whether, in this specific case, all these practices are in line with the new European Regulation. We will see whether this independent authority, in the service of Parliament, will act. Since this is an organ of Parliament, I invite you also to forward this request to the Committee on the Protection of Privacy. We are therefore confident that action will be taken to protect the data of consumers and citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u70	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for this clear answer. Data protection is an essential element. Technology is moving very quickly and it is up to both the government and us, legislators, to ensure that users are best informed and protected. This case requires significant follow-up, even if, to my knowledge, there have been no leaks from these e-mails to date. When gmail says it only concerns private e-mails, we know very well that companies or public bodies also use gmail.com addresses. We must therefore pay close attention to this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u71	Madam Secretary of State, a few days ago, an odious aggression of an Islamophobic nature took place in Anderlues. The only fault of the attacked young Muslim was wearing the veil. This is a different fact for some, but for others, this fact demonstrates an increasingly widespread racism in our society. Its manifestation is increasingly violent and the figures are constantly increasing. Today, despite a commitment made more than seventeen years ago to the UN, Belgium still does not have an inter-federal plan to combat racism. Of course, this plan could certainly not have avoided this aggression or all the others, but it would at least have had the merit of saying loud and clear that all forms of racism must be denounced and condemned, that the nauseating discourses of some must not be tolerated, and that living together and diversity are undoubtedly an asset to our society and constitute its wealth. Madam Secretary of State, along with Unia and other civil society associations, we consider it urgent to make the fight against racism a national issue through a broad plan. It would include clear lines of action, such as the systematic involvement of the actors concerned, a better picture of racism and its various forms in Belgium, better legal monitoring of infringements of anti-discrimination laws and the establishment of plans for the police. Madam Secretary of State, how do you explain these increasingly violent acts of racism? Will a plan actually come into being under this legislature? What will be the main lines of action? Civil society says it hasn't been involved yet. Are you going to associate him with your efforts or not? I wouldn't understand it would be any other way. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u72	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Monday evening at 11 p.m., a 19-year-old young woman will cycle home in Anderlues, a municipality around Charleroi. It's a nice evening, the country is in festive mood because the Red Devils have won Japan. This evening, however, ends particularly traumatic for this 19-year-old young woman. She's being robbed by two unidentified men. They're pulling her into an alley. They get rid of her headscarf and outerwear and they abuse her with a sharp object, in her face, her arms, her legs. The prosecutor says it's a clear racist act. That's what the parquet says. Madam Secretary of State, you responded with a tweet. It was the least you could do. However, you can do more. After the election of Miss Belgium, who has Filipino roots, you yourself announced that you were going to fight an inter-federal action plan to combat racism and discrimination in all areas. That was six months ago. You said that six months ago. When is this action plan due? When will all forms of racism and discrimination be fought?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u73	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, the racist aggression of this young woman in Anderlues is horrific, dramatic and unacceptable. It must be denounced unambiguously. It also reminds us that there are still too many racist attacks. Four or five are reported each month to Unia. This is all the more enormous since some are probably not. Denouncing is one thing; acting is another. Together, we must move forward and respond to racism. It is true that you have already announced for months an inter-federal plan against racism and discrimination. On 20 June, you met with the Coalition for an Interfederal Plan against Racism. This one has made eleven proposals to you. What's your status? How will you move forward, especially with civil society?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been seventeen years since Belgium undertook to draw up an action plan against racism. As soon as I arrived, I said I would work on a plan against homophobia and transphobia. It was launched last May. I am now working on an action plan against racism. It would become a social plan in which all forms of racism would be dealt with. In fact, I stated in committee six months ago that Belgium committed itself 17 years ago to making that plan. I promised to do that six months ago. Our cabinet is working on it, too. We have indeed received the coalition. It was a constructive conversation. However, I also noted in committee that I would look at the issue more broadly, not just in terms of discrimination and racism. There are a number of other elements in our society that will also be addressed in the plan, such as, for example, the low employment rate of people outside the European Union and, above all, the position of women, who have a very low participation rate. There are other elements, such as the finding that 11 percent of babies are born non-Belg. So there are many elements in our society that we must include in the plan. In my capacity as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, I therefore have the responsibility to address these challenges in the social plan. Mrs De Coninck, to return to the question about the incident, I can tell you that I reacted immediately, albeit by tweeting, because I wanted to be very clear about the incident and also condemn it. As a politician, it is very important to condemn such a racist attack, such as the events of last Monday. Of course, I've done more. Our cabinet contacted Unia, which has already opened a file, to deal with the matter. We have also indicated that the case, like other cases, must be examined to the full, and then punished the perpetrators. That too is very important. In fact, no form of discrimination should be tolerated. That's what happened in the file. The cabinet is working on the anti-discrimination and society plan. It will be submitted in any case during the current legislature. I therefore hope that I will be able to come to Parliament and the committee very soon to discuss the plan with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u75	Madam Secretary of State, I would have liked to hear you say that these acts do not belong in our country, both Islamophobic and racist or homophobic acts. All these acts must be firmly condemned, which you have not done today. I'm sorry. That's what I wanted to hear from you. In our view, the Secretary of State, integration and living together are the pillars of our democracy. How many more assaults will it take for you to concretize your words? What do you tell those Belgians of foreign origin who have tanned skin, are black or yellow or wear the veil? Do they have to be afraid to go out on the street? Do they have to hide to avoid being targeted? We must put humanity back in our society and that is also your role.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u76	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to add something to the debate. The most essential thing in a family is trust in each other. The most essential thing in a society is trust and respect for each other, because that is the lubricating oil that holds a family or a society together. We must invest a great deal in this and we can destroy it very quickly. I notice that there are parties and politicians who do nothing but polarize and turn groups of people against each other. When the pot overboils, they send a tweet. In your group there are a number of people who like to tweet when the pot overboils. Some parties become rich, literally and figuratively. Those tweets are just windowdressing after all. Madam Secretary of State, I would therefore say "It is time for change."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u77	Seventeen years you have had the time: 17 years, 17 years! [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u78	Only Mrs De Coninck has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u79	I just said something about respect, but yes... respect, Madam Secretary of State, that goes for you, too. There's regulation here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u80	I'll do it, but you've had 17 years. Why didn't you do it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u81	Mrs. Demir, I must also ask you, like everyone else... [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u82	Madam Secretary of State, we are not on the market here. We are here in Parliament! I have the right to speak and, Mr President, I would like you to make that clear to her, because apparently she does not listen to anyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u83	Mrs Demir will now listen to you, Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u84	Madam Secretary of State, it is time for a change: not a tweet, but actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u85	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u86	Let's hear Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u87	Madam Secretary of State, you have announced an inter-federal plan against racism. I ask you to be able to reach a conclusion before the end of this Parliament. The challenge is to work to gain the widest possible support, both politically, with the different levels of power, but also with all the actors in civil society, especially those associations that are very active and are already investing a lot in this direction on the ground. Maybe I can make a call. Ladies and gentlemen, rather than tearing ourselves apart in this House, we will succeed in advancing the cause against racism only by working together and mobilizing together. I hope that, collectively, we will be able to make progress before the end of this Parliament. I'm counting on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u88	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u89	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 July 2018, I propose that points 6 to 10 be omitted, namely: - the draft law amending the Law of 11 December 1998 setting up an appeal body on safety clearances, safety attestations and safety advice, Nos 3107/1 to 6; - the draft law approving the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part, and the Final Act, of the other part, done at Kasane on 10 June 2016, Nos 3087/1 to 4; - the draft law approving the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of Ecuador, done at Brussels on 11 November 2016, Nos 3088/1 to 4; - the draft law approving the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, done in Brussels on 30 October 2016, Nos 3086/1 to 5; - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Philippe Blanchart) on the establishment of a system for evaluating the socio-economic and environmental impact of the Broad Economic Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada (CETA), Nos 2743/1 and 2. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 July 2018, I propose to delete items 6 to 10, namely: - the draft law amending the Act of 11 December 1998 establishing a review body on clearances, certificates and security notices, Nos. 3107/1 to 6; - the draft law approving the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part, and the Final Act, done at Kasane on 10 June 2016, Nos. 3087/1 to 4; - the draft law approving the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, in order to take account of the accession of Ecuador, done in Brussels on 11 November 2016, Nos. 3088/1 to 4; - the draft law approving the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand, done in Brussels on 30 October 2016, Nos. 3086/1 to 5; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Gwenaëlle Grovonius, MM. Stéphane Crusnière and Philippe Blanchart) calling for the establishment of a mechanism to assess the socio-economic and environmental effects of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada (AECG/CETA), Nos. 2743/1 and 2. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u90	Mr President, on agenda item 18, the draft law amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights (No. 2569), you will have received an amendment signed by representatives of four opposition parties. We ask for the opinion of the Council of State on that amendment. I just want to motivate why. In previous opinions on that draft, the Council of State has already warned that the increase in registry rights could restrict access to justice guaranteed by the Constitution. The Supreme Court of Justice was also concerned by the increase in these costs, given the total cost of the proceedings and the various increases in recent years. The draft has already been withdrawn, but after a year the majority has amended it, while the increase in registry duties has been maintained. It continues to be stubbornly difficult to access justice, despite warnings from the Council of State and despite a judgment of the Constitutional Court two weeks ago, which destroyed the brake money, precisely because of the difficulty of access to justice. The amendments made by the majority will not change that. It is about an essential fundamental right, the right of access to justice, and that is why an additional opinion from the Council of State is essential for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u91	Mr President, I support Mr Van Hecke's initiative. The government is trying to mishandle a response to a question that the Constitutional Court has legitimately raised. In haste, we try to find a solution that is not one. The government's objective clearly concerns profitability, which is targeted by increasing registry fees to inflate government revenues. By the way, it should be noted that this will not even be used to refinance the Justice FPS. So that's a clumsy answer. The Constitutional Court did not rule on the height of the new rights. She did not have to do it, she had other elements that allowed her to cancel the text that the majority had voted for. Tomorrow, it is likely that the Constitutional Court will have to look at the height of these rights and remove from this exaggeration an obstacle to an elementary constitutional right, that of citizens' access to justice regardless of their state of fortune. That is what is at stake today in this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u92	There is no other member asking for the floor. In this case, the request for the opinion of the Council of State will be taken over in the ordinary procedure. (Rules, Art. 98.3) The draft is therefore suspended pending that opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u93	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u94	Mr President, as you have just said, this is a bill on the payment of public sector pensions, allowances and annuities, which was discussed by the Social Affairs Committee on 27 June. The principle is that of a single payment of all pensions granted to the same beneficiary by the merger of the various systems which coexisted with the Federal Pension Service in respect of the payment of pensions and allowances. From now on, Minister Bacquelaine explained, there will be a single computer application, regardless of the pension plan, which will allow for the harmonization of the terms of payment of pensions, and each pensioner will receive on the same date all the pensions to which he or she is entitled, whereas previously, if he or she was receiving pensions from different plans, there could be split payments. The principle is that payment will now be made at the end of the month. The principle of monthly payment is generalised. Some beneficiaries received pension amounts on a quarterly basis. Pensions will be paid in the month to which they relate and public pensions will be paid in advance, i.e. at the beginning of the month, which will allow the payment of the indexed pension to be anticipated by one month in case of indexation. All members responded positively to this government project. Ms Temmerman pointed out that this was a project that is in the direction of simplification. She asked the Minister about the subsistence of three separate payment dates, asking him whether there was a need for a single payment date. I also supported the project by asking the minister about the economies of scale that will be achieved, by worrying about the information of the beneficiaries and the differential in terms of payment dates between the old and the new system, in order to avoid cash flow problems for the beneficiaries. I asked the minister about the tax consequences of the scheme since in the first year, once the pension is paid in the month in which it is due, some pensioners will benefit from 13 months of pension – in this case for 2018 or for 2019, if the application of the system is postponed. I also asked the minister about the possibility for those entitled to continue to receive payment via postal assignment, regardless of the new system. Ms. Fonck questioned the tax implications of the transaction, seeking to ensure that an agreement had been reached with the Minister of Finance and his administration. She was surprised at the possibility of deferring the entry into force of the law by one year and stressed the importance of informing the beneficiaries of subsistence of the possibility of payment by circular cheque. Mrs Thoron welcomed this project by highlighting the advantages in terms of simplification and readability. Like Mr Lachaert, who questioned why SNCB's pensions were not part of the reform. Ms Becq, as the penultimate speaker, wondered about the possibility of implementing the reform from 1 July – given its technical importance – and about the tax consequences for the beneficiaries. Finally, Mr. Spooren requested an estimate of economies of scale. The minister replied that the text had been the subject of a unanimous opinion and agreement by the organizations representing the workers consulted. He made it clear that the possibility of payment by postal assignment will remain for those entitled persons who have not provided the administration with their bank account number. He also stated that the Federal Service will not produce proactive approaches to their search. As a result, the right to receive payment by postal assignment will be maintained. He reassured the commission as to the existence of an agreement with the Minister of Finance and technical arrangements to avoid an overtaxation of the 13th monthly pension that would be collected in 2018 or 2019, following the implementation of the reform. He informed us of the establishment of an information campaign for rightholders and explained that the possibility of a one-year postponement of the reform was motivated by the fact that it was a technologically risky operation. Finally, all the articles and the text itself were adopted unanimously by our committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u95	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u96	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3180/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3180/3) The draft law has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u97	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u98	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Roel Deseyn, Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Les Rapporteurs Ms Lijnen, Ms Fonck, Mr Van der Donkt, Mr Daerden, Mr Van Biesen, M. Crusnière and M. Flahaux. They refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u100	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the discussions have been very extensive in committee. I will therefore be brief, but on behalf of our group I would like to say that this draft law is particularly welcome for certain sectors of our society. I am thinking, for example, of the sports sector, which has for years been a party to an interim statute between volunteering and the employment contract, in order to reward the many efforts of trainers and sports coaches with fair financial compensation. We therefore welcome the fact that a flexible statute is provided for through the association work for those needy sectors. We believe it is very important that the new opportunities for untaxed extra income cannot, will or may lead to unfair competition or to the disappearance of regular jobs. It is therefore a good thing that a number of restrictions have been imposed on non-taxable income. I only mention a few, because there are a lot of them. The system is only accessible to those who work for at least four fifths, are self-employed in the main occupation or are retired. An employer must not break a contract of employment and then have that job filled by an association worker. Another bolt has been inserted, which I would like to cite as an example. The person providing occasional services may not carry out these tasks at regular intervals, may not advertise them, and may not, of course, compete with his employer if necessary. On the other hand, of course, we have a great deal of sympathy for the many concerns and questions raised by both employers' and employees' organizations about the design. We hope that the restrictions laid down in the draft law will prevent undesirable effects, but it is not obvious to predict this in advance with certainty. That is why I would like to point out that, on the occasion of the first reading, our N-VA group in the Committee on Social Affairs called for an amendment which provides for an evaluation. This evaluation should be discussed in the Council of Ministers and in the Chamber after one year. I refer to the first reading report, document No. 2839/12. I quote: 'It must also be borne in mind that, should the use of association work or occasional services between citizens lead to unfair competition in certain sectors, the Minister responsible would certainly act'. Moreover, the explanatory memorandum expressly states that "A rapid mid-term review of the system is foreseen. This should reduce the fears of the social partners and, if necessary, take appropriate corrective measures. In this context, the speaker announced the submission of an amendment to clarify that the evaluation would have to take place no later than 1 year after the date of entry into force of the measure." The speaker was me. An amendment to that effect was finally adopted at second reading. The evaluation after one year, in addition to the continuous monitoring, to which you referred at the committee meetings, Madam Minister, was and still is the sine qua non for us to support the draft. We therefore expressly ask you to give maximum effect to the content of this amendment. The draft is part of the further flexibilisation of labour law, and it graces our government and the majority coalition that they dare to undertake some ambitious reforms in this area. It is of course crucial that we keep sufficient space to make smart, much-needed adjustments to ensure that flexibilisation does not destroy regular jobs or punish hard-working self-employed people. I decide, Madam Secretary. Despite the fact that all the actors in the field do not give you enough for this legislative initiative, we think that the evaluation of civil society hic et nunc is too strict. It is the task of the coalition as a whole to implement the law on the ground in a proper and continuous monitoring and evaluation after one year, with constant care in mind that deloyal competition and job destruction should not occur, in such a way that the current understandable concerns of civil society will prove to be unfounded. But beware, if it turns out that the coalition is failing in its mission, our group will immediately insist on a sound and fundamental adjustment of the regime. We will support the draft law with our group in the light of what I have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u101	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we remember the government's glorious communication at the conclusion of the 2017 summer agreement. He had thus announced the content: reform of ISOC, taxation of securities accounts and, finally, the 6 000 euro defiscalised. Everyone seemed to be satisfied with it. As the song says, "It's a beautiful novel, it's a beautiful story." However, it was not a long, quiet river: late texts, lack of anticipation, amateurism, lack of consultation, attempts to pass through force and tough opposition. Thus, the gift package, the package, had to be split, burst, sausageed by simple political realism. So here we are in the summer of 2018 for the landing of season 3 of a long chaotic journey. On the form, this crazy race of obstacles seems to me illustrative of the functioning of your majority. It's a little her trademark: she decides, she announces – according to the revised formula: "Happy who communicates" – and, only then, she realizes that it would have been necessary to consult and negotiate. Fortunately, at the request of the Socialist Group, a second reading was organised in the Committee on Social Affairs. Of course, unfortunately, the majority did not take the opportunity to improve the original text and make it less harmful to the economic and voluntary sectors. On the other hand, you realized that some amendments were still necessary. Thanks to this second reading - although not voted in December - you were able to table it. I must express another small satisfaction. Under pressure from the opposition, which had to fight hard, hearings on this bill were held. The consequences of this text will equally affect the economic world and the voluntary sector. It is true that your majority has a habit of trying to be strong. However, it is realized that such a method often implies that discussions with the opposition are necessary. What is also a little unfortunate is a certain contempt that has been shown by some to the guests we have heard, even if these guests did not come to say what you wanted to hear. Indeed, all of us, without exception, have spoken out against this bill by demonstrating the dangers that it contains, in particular, for our model of social security. Briefly, I would like to recall that the CSC felt that sabrer in social security seemed to be the red line of your bill. I'm talking about the original project. The CSC representative pointed out that there was a real danger of regular jobs being replaced, a danger exacerbated by the underfunding of voluntary work. He also expressed concern about the dismissal of ordinary workers. The CGSLB, the liberal union, also believes that this project clearly constitutes unfair competition for both employees and self-employed persons and employers, as they will be put in competition with people who do not have to meet any standard. The Liberal union also considers the pressure that can be exerted on wages. A person could very well find himself forced to accept a low wage, for example a wage of 4 to 5 euros. On the FGTB side, it is also considered to be a factor of unfair competition. I would say that the factor of unfair competition was the common denominator of all the social partners. According to the FGTB, this project is likely to lead to deprofessionalisation in relation to regular employment. It is not just the workers who are against this project. The employers, the FEB, whose majority is very close, - it is quite well known - also told us that there were not enough safeguards and that all this led to a very high risk of unfair competition compared to companies which respect the rules of the game and pay taxes and social security contributions. UNIZO also believes that there is an unfair competition effect that will come from this project. I quote: "People who pay less taxes and social security contributions will be able to apply lower tariffs, which is obviously a form of unfair competition vis-à-vis the self-employed and businesses." This professional organization has already announced that it will attack this legislation if it is voted. The UCM is also concerned about de-professionalisation, loss of earnings for social security, unfair competition and legal uncertainty. The SNI told us that his courier was flooded with messages from independents who were worried. The SNI believes that "it is simply implausible that some people have to pay taxes and social contributions for a specific activity while others are exempt from it." For him, "the project deprives the small independents of their livelihood and considers the independents as second-class citizens". Here, on the employer's bench, I quote the SNI, the UCM, UNIZO and the FEB who join the workers' representatives in this respect. The social and voluntary sector also expressed its opposition to the project. Thus, the Union of Social Business, UNISOC, considers that there is a clear question of unfair competition with volunteers, who are relegated to a corner. Ms. Emmeline Orban of the Francophone volunteer platform, for her part, believes that the project distorts volunteerism. That's also our point of view. "We will attend," she said, "to the commodification of an act which was initially an act of solidarity, by nature, free of charge." As for the Higher Council of Volunteers, he also said that the image of volunteerism had been blurred in many structures and that people working under contract would find themselves in competition with others. His message is in summary: "Not in my name!" Many then expressed themselves by mail, in the press, by e-mail, by calling on you, by calling on us to change the project and urging you to take the time to reflect. Due to the lack of prior consultation with the federated entities, Cocof has introduced a conflict-of-interest procedure to try to open a dialogue and demonstrate how dangerous your project is. Unfortunately, the real constructive dialogue aimed at a balanced consensus was replaced by a confrontation of monologues. Members of the majority must be aware of this. In particular, I would like to address my colleague, Mr Clarinval, with reference to the SNI's comments and the concerns of the small independents she relays. They feel abandoned. This project also undermines the building on which our social security is built. The FPS Finance estimated that some €140 million would be taken away from it as well as from public services. The National Labour Council also considered that this project undermines what the social partners have built in terms of social protection. You have chosen a frontal attack on the right to work and solidarity. With this bill, you are finally organizing a new form of intrabelgian social dumping. You put the workers in competition with each other. Tomorrow, plumbers, electricians, horticulturalists who pay their dues and taxes risk being robbed of their jobs by a casual worker who is cheaper because he does not contribute. So you put in place a substatus. This casual worker will have no social rights. There will be no pension rights. He will not benefit from the protection of his employment, he will not have notice in case of dismissal, no protection of his salary. He can be paid in any way. With this ideological project, you are undermining our social model, which is recognized throughout the world. You will be discouraging the employment of our fellow citizens who have already suffered a lot from other provisions, other measures. In addition, you reduce the quality of the services offered. In fact, the legislator, the public authorities impose on professionals a series of conditions: qualifications, quality and safety standards to protect consumers. In the future, casual workers may escape these requirements, which will reduce the quality and safety of the services rendered. This bill will cause serious harm to workers, businesses, self-employed persons and associations. This is a major societal issue. For us, this project is obviously unacceptable. We will continue to fight it, even after its likely vote. Ministers, this text has not even been voted on yet that you are already announcing a restorative law that no one, in any case in the opposition, has seen and of which no one knows what it contains. The loop isn't closed yet! Season 4 is already announced to correct errors, omissions, approximations. I believe that the minimum of respect for our Parliament, our democracy and our citizens is to be able to decide on a final text. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, to make available to us the content of this restorative law, so that we may make an informed decision earlier. It is about respecting our democratic procedures. In any case, I hope that the Constitutional Court will not be fooled and that it will cancel your text as it stands. You have understood this, and we have said it and repeated it in committee: for the Socialist Group, it is no. We will vote against this terrible bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u102	Ministers, Le Manuel du petit flibustier, is the title of the next book that can be written when we analyse the way in which the opposition has dealt with the matter in question. They're not cartoons. I'm just saying facts. Second readings, amendments to the Council of State and conflicts of interest - the fourth in six months, which allowed us to recall how much COCOF was being used here in a federal debate. All of this has been put in place but one year after the announcement of the decision, the draft comes to Parliament's table. Mr Delizée said that a restorative law was announced. Indeed, we could have had a more constructive debate and possibly amend the text, but what would have happened? We would have had a new conflict of interest and new acts of fliber, and we would have been gone for a turn. It was not reasonable to engage in such a debate with an opposition that was not in a constructive state of mind. As far as we are concerned, we have understood that you have been fiercely opposed to this text and we take note of it. However, within the majority, we have the will to move forward and to put in place this new system which grants additional freedom to our fellow citizens. Indeed, we want to put in place a system that allows a person to receive a non-taxed income of 500 euros per month for work performed during his/her free time in the non-market sector. These 500 euros are a maximum. The ceiling per year is set at a maximum of €6,000. Why do you do that? To provide a response to the different needs observed within society, affecting several specific sectors. We also want to follow up on the wishes of the Higher Council of Volunteers, which started from the observation of the existence of a grey area between work and voluntary work, in which many people were located and which put this system under tension. Unfortunately, this grey area was subject to abuse and fraud, with non-payments and hand-to-hand payments that were neither legal nor acceptable. Finally, the aim was also to provide more protection for workers or pensioners. Activities will now be reported without withholding tax or social security contributions. Therefore, more transparency is simply introduced into the mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u103	Mr Clarinval, in the past, we have dealt with this problem of black work through another means, namely service titles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u104	In some areas, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u105	At the time, I started this system, which has been regularly improved, and that is a good thing. But at least the workers are protected. Here, you organize a competition system without worker protection and without the protection of those who will benefit from the services of the mini-jobs you create. Why didn't you look for a system that would have proposed at the same time a fight against undeclared work and protection of workers, rather than, as usual, creating a system that reduces the quality of employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u106	Mr President, I wanted to respond to two points, at this stage in Mr Clarinval's speech. Already in committee, he considered that fraud practices were widespread in the voluntary sector. I can only be false with regard to this de-consideration, so easy, from the rostrum, of a sector that too often carries out with string tips missions of public utility to receive and animate early childhood, of continuing education, of cultural activities. It is so easy, when we deprive the state, and all its components, of the means to properly subsidize these sectors, to come to the rostrum and accuse it of fraud. I know of fraudsters, especially in financial matters. Each year, it amounts to billions of euros. Join your energy with mine to prevent them from harming, rather than reporting somewhat easily to those who need to manage. The second word that makes me react, like Mrs Onkelinx, is the word "protection". You announce here that you will provide protection for those who volunteer. I wonder where your protection is, since you are proposing a system in which the money that will be earned will not be paid tax on the one hand, but on the other hand no payment of social contributions on the other. Social contributions means rights derived from the payment of these social contributions. What about workers' rights? Any insurance they'll get if they get sick? A workplace accident that might occur? The protection of the beneficiaries of their activities? On the contrary, you are in the process of creating a system which is totally deregulated and which, moreover, is going to compete with people who pay their social contributions correctly. UNIZO, UCM and the Conseil Supérieur des Indépendants et des SMEs say the same thing: they denounce this situation of unfair competition. Personally, I do not see, on the one hand, where fraud in the voluntary sector is - perhaps you are well informed on the subject - and, on the other hand, where the protection of workers in your system is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u107	Mr President, I find it incredible that, after a year of discussion, we still hear such nonsense. We argue for a year and they still come with mini-jobs. Mrs. Onkelinx, first of all, take the service cheques. We entered it together. That is a good system, that is correct, but it costs taxpayers more than EUR 1 billion in subsidies. You have to be careful what you say. Second. You say we organize mini-jobs here. That is totally wrong, where do you get that from? Don't you know the rules and conditions under which you can perform these kinds of jobs? One must have at least a job of four fifths or be independent in main occupation, or retired. In other words, we must have a full social status before we can begin. You say that you pay nothing, but you get nothing. This does not build up social rights, because they are already enjoyed within its existing statute. Either you don't understand what would surprise me after all your experience as a minister, or you're lying. I'm afraid it's the second. You're trying to scare people. Honestly, that won't take. Colleagues, this is about a system not to earn, but to earn. Is that what you're asking for? That will be evident from my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u108	Are employers' organisations lying? Are the small independents who have expressed themselves lying? Is the FEB lying? Are trade union organisations lying? Are voluntary organizations lying? Is there a coalition of liars against you? What's all this? In addition, you say – it's a bit of a mess – that service securities are costing and that at least here it won't cost. Of course I do! Why is this going to cost the community? Because there are no social security contributions. What are these for? To pool ways to provide health care to everyone, pensions to everyone, to have a system of occupational accidents. Since we will not have the means through these small jobs without protection, it is obviously the taxpayer who, some day or another, will pay. It is therefore a system which costs, which will weigh on social security, which offers no protection to workers or to the beneficiaries of work. In addition, questions remained unanswered. What are you going to do when these workers are, for example, victims of an industrial accident? You're gonna say it's too bad, it's so bad. What you're offering us is bullshit! I stress once again that all civil society, all the social partners have considered your system to be stupid and dangerous.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u109	Mr President, I am as surprised as Mr. Van Quickenborne of the non-evolution of minds for a year. But I am also surprised at the non-evolution of his mind and that of the minister here. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u110	We may disagree with the members of the opposition. It happens every day. But we are not the only ones who speak on the subject. I would like to give two specific points of answer following Mr. Van Quickenborne. According to the latter, the workers concerned are already covered with regard to social security, since they must also have a contract covering at least 4/5th time. Are you not aware, Mr. Van Quickenborne, that certain social benefits are proportional to income? If one falls ill, the compensation received is calculated, in part, on the basis of the income to which one was entitled. You have been Minister of Pensions, you know that our pension system generates a pension for workers that is partially proportional to their contributions throughout their career. Working people, in part, without paying social contributions, does not generate additional social rights, particularly in the area of pensions, where pensions are still dramatically low in our country. Secondly, on the question of the destruction of employment and mini-jobs: again, you try to mislead everyone. The problem lies in the fact that people who work after hours to carry out services in competition with businesses and independents will benefit from unfair competition with them, gardeners and computer specialists. It is their situation that will be weakened by your system. That is exactly what UNIZO explained to us. I thought you were sensitive to it, but no doubt it is the Greens, Ecolo and Groen who are closest to this sector of activity and to this socio-professional category. Maybe it's the Higher Council of Independents and SMEs. And you don't want to hear it. You will introduce a principle of unfair competition. It's incomprehensible. Where some find it difficult to complete the month and obtain a sufficiently full order book, you will also compete with people who will not pay taxes or social contributions. It's just incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u111	Mr President, I would like to return briefly to two points so that you will have all the considerations. Mr Clarinval, I refer to your first expression, but also to the procedure and the method. You talked about flirtation and hard work. We tried to make you understand that receiving a document of 725 pages to deal with in a few hours or days was not a good way to work and that on the substance, the topics certainly deserved reflection, consultation and dialogue. You tell us that the opposition did not have a constructive approach. That's ridiculous! This is the opposite of reality! I want to tell you that the majority wanted to vote very, very quickly without getting tired of auditioning or debating. We finally obtained consensus to conduct hearings. However, with regard to these texts, we hoped that these hearings would open their eyes and generate reflections to improve the text and thus be more balanced. That was not the case, but I think it cannot be said that the opposition was not constructive. We tried to push the reflection further, while the majority remained focused on its package and wanted to go into force, while knowing that a conflict of interest would be raised and that procedures would be initiated. This text was so bad that we used all the democratic levers we hold as members of the opposition. Then you approach the grey area and explain that this problem needs to be addressed. That's probably right, but not in this way. As I said earlier in the rostrum, read the report of the Higher Council of Volunteers: he did not support your project as presented to us and even said: "Not in my name". Your text goes far beyond the grey zone. You're talking about collaborative work, associative work, between neighbours. In short, you have expanded the object. You could have developed a project to address the grey area, which has been pending for years, but you have extended its scope. That is, moreover, what all the partners who came to committee have denounced. Therefore, stop pretending that this project is being used to solve the problem of the grey zone. It is far too vast; and that is exactly what we condemn it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u112	Mr President, I will try to answer exhaustively. First of all, Mrs. Onkelinx, you are mistaken when you speak of "workers". This is not the case here: it is workers who already have a contract of employment at least 4/5th time and who also volunteer. They do so on a voluntary basis, by definition. So they don't have to. If they give themselves to it, it's in those conditions. In other words, they are already entitled to social security by virtue of their official employment contract. Anyway, when you talk about "workers," you're wrong. It is a question of volunteers who supplement their hours with an activity carried out in the associative world. Mrs. Onkelinx, I've been listening for half an hour. I would just like to answer you and talk to you about certain problems. We have installed four safeguards, which I will detail later. We have planned this, because – and on this point, Mr Gilkinet is right – we are also attentive to unfair competition. We do not want this system to encourage it. That is why the mechanism has provided for four safeguards that will have to be evaluated at a later stage. If necessary, we will replace them. Mr Gilkinet, I did not say that fraud was widespread in the associative world. That is not true; I have only said that she was there. In committee, remember, I mentioned the case of a swimming pool where lifeguards were paid for by the volunteer system, when in fact we know very well that they were paid to provide swimming lessons. I'm not going to go into detail, but I theoretically illustrate what exists. Close your eyes and say that there is no black in the community world, that's not true. You know that very well. But I didn't say it was widespread. Mr. Delizée, you acknowledged that you still used all possible and conceivable mechanisms to slow down the process. So you practiced a form of flabbus. Why did I say you weren't constructive? I take the example of COCOF. At the consultation meetings, when COCOF was asked what amendments it proposed and which sectors it wanted to delete from the list, it left the room. She never offered anything. You will tell me that the COCOF is not the opposition, but its government is composed of the same parties as the federal opposition. The minister made it clear, and she will repeat it later, that she is seeking amendments from the opposition. There was an amendment to delete the whole text! It's very constructive! We have never received any technical amendments to remove certain sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u113	It's so easy to amalgamate and caricature. For the voluntary sector, the Ecolo-Groen Group recognises the specific nature of the sports sector and the arts sector, which require an adequate response. We proposed that you apply this system on an exploratory basis for a single sector and then evaluate it before setting up, as you envisage, a very broad system, which you will evaluate before correcting it. It will be too late because the consequences for economic sectors that are struggling to survive today will be very heavy. With regard to the amendments, the last act we have put forward through the plenary session is indeed to send a series of amendments to the Council of State which, unfortunately, you have clearly not read. Preventive work, which is not limited to the Ecolo-Groen Group, has been done to try to reduce the negative impact that we are having and which is announced by a number of interlocutors. On the other hand, the Council of State very broadly validates the proposals we have made, even if it has had to react urgently. And, where he has made remarks, we have corrected our amendments and are resubmitting them. It is indeed a question of answering specific questions, in particular the needs of the sports sector or of certain cultural operators (theatrical troupes, choirs, etc.). while avoiding competition with computer scientists, gardeners or others that you're going to hurt, simply because you don't dare say no to your partner, the Vld.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u114	Mr Clarinval, I have listened carefully to your explanation and I will make my speech later, but I wish to respond already. You tell Mrs. Onkelinx that these are mini-jobs. I don't want to use the term mini-jobs myself. Your explanation doesn't add up either. You say that this is about people who work four fifths and who already have all insurance and related matters, and do a job with them. Let me give you an example of a worker who works four-fifths at Colruyt. If that worker goes to work after hours and gets an accident at the time she's doing work, then Colruyt's insurance isn't gonna cover that accident, is it? The employee is not insured for that accident. The argument that everything is covered because the people involved are doing a four-fifth job is therefore wrong. That question remains open. At present, it is still unclear how employees are insured at the time of work. Secondly, you have said that the opposition has philibusted. Mr Clarinval, you were present when we invited the ten organisations. You, like me, have been a Member of Parliament for a long time. Well, in my view, it was really unseen that the ten invited bodies criticised. That does not mean that we are against the idea as a whole. We are opposed to the very extensive introduction, as it now stands. You are right in your example of the sports world, but the current draft law goes much wider. For example, the design touches a lot of small self-employed people, who often have to have it off work; they have also been jostled by this bill. There is no answer to that problem. This criticism has been repeated for over a year, but the majority has been deaf for over a year. Classical arguments are cited, as if the opposition were filibustering. Bodies such as voluntary organisations, workers' and employers' organisations have been calling the bell, but you remain deaf for that as well. It is too easy to say that we are opposed simply because we are in opposition. That is not true, Mr Clarinval, we are not, by definition, opposed. We are listening to the problems in the world of sport, but that is no reason for the adoption of a law so comprehensive that it disrupts the labour market. We cannot agree to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u115	Mr President, I will try to answer, and then I will try to finish my remarks. Quickly, Mr Gilkinet, yes, perhaps there were proposals in your last amendments, but in the meantime, they were tabled late and were not proposed in the committee's negotiations. It was during the discussions with COCOF that we had to come up with proposals! The minister reached out and this was not done. It's true you're not a member of the COCOF. It is also true that the composition is not quite the same at the level of the opposition. Mrs Kitir, I hear the remarks, but I would point out that the same remarks and fears were present when we talked about flexi-jobs. Today, flexi-jobs are indeed concrete. Critics and remarks are no longer heard and flexi-jobs are found to work. Finally, I'm going to introduce you to the four guards, because I feel you're trembling with impatience. As has already been said, the first safeguard is the prohibition for a person who has a contract of less than 80% to be able to perform this kind of voluntary work. This means, therefore, that she has a social status and a contract of employment. The second safeguard is the prohibition of converting an employment contract into associative work. That's not allowed. The third safeguard is the prohibition on the associative worker to carry out at the same time an activity for the same organisation in the context of his employment contract. He cannot, therefore, practise it within the scope of his profession. The last safeguard is the prohibition for former workers of an organisation to work as volunteers in the organisation for which they were working, up to a year in advance. It is clear that the Group of Ten and many people have criticized this text, including employers' organizations. I said it. We are sensitive to these criticisms and we have tabled an amendment in committee to the minister. He was accepted. With this amendment, we asked for an assessment to be made very quickly, a permanent monitoring of the system. The minister has agreed and will immediately set up a monitoring system that will, if necessary, correct the shot. I trust the government. That's what makes us different. I trust both the minister and the government to correct the shot. Recognize, Mr Cheron, you who are a distinguished lawyer, that the situation would have been better if the opinion of the Council of State had not been taken into account! Remember, remember, remember, remember, In the original text, the list of functions was not included in the bill and there was a need for a royal order for implementation. A royal decree is a more flexible tool to be able to change the list of sectors. Unfortunately, the Council of State has demanded that this list be included in the text. Therefore, in order to respect the Council of State, the text had to be corrected. Let us recognize that it will be an extra heaviness! A royal decree would have been more flexible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u116	Mr Clarinval, Mr Gilkinet asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u117	Mr Clarinval, excuse me, but among your bad arguments, this one is even worse than the others. The Council of State does indeed say that the Government cannot be authorized, by royal decree, to establish or expand the list. He doesn't say the list should be three pages long. If your list identifies the sports and cultural sectors, it responds to the comment of the Council of State. Infer that it is necessary to be broad, because the Council of State asks you to be precise, it is a sophistry that does not hold the road. It doesn't even seem logical.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u118	It is not only appropriate to read the opinion of the Council of State. You have to understand it again!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u119	In any event, I have the impression that the criticisms heard here are exactly the same as those addressed to the flexi-jobs text. We had the same oppositions, the same remarks, the same fears, the text passed and, today, flexi-jobs work. They are effective and highly expected in the sector, to the satisfaction of all. I therefore have no doubt for a moment that a similar reception will be reserved in the months and years that come to this system. If changes are necessary as a result of ongoing monitoring, the list of sectors may be adjusted accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft before us today will soon ensure that many associations and jobs between citizens can be properly arranged and reimbursed. Much has already been said here about the black and grey circuit, but I think that often people do not want to know how things should be arranged, despite the fact that both those who want to do something and the association for which it is done always want to regulate it in good faith and in the best possible way, but that one often fails to do so and has to do it in a way that may be grey instead of white. We will do this well with this draft so that these things are made white. That can only be a good thing. A lot has been said here. Mrs. Kitir, you just said that people are not insured. Association workers are insured and someone who wants to do some extra work has to insure themselves. That's the logic of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u121	Mr Vercamer, can you tell me how he should be assured? What kind of insurance does a person have to take out when he goes to work with someone? What kind of insurance does he have to take so that he's covered when he's gonna dress up and have an accident? What's the insurance he's supposed to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u122	That's like any insurance that people want to take out today when they want to do something. A lot of people already have that kind of insurance. This depends on what one wants to ensure, what guarantees one wants and how much premium one wants to pay. That's how it works today in the insurance business, and that's how it's gonna work in the insurance business tomorrow. That is the normal course of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u123	There is no such insurance. I'll deal with that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u124	We have always argued in favour of this new regulation going ahead as soon as possible for the sport and culture sector because they were best prepared for it. When the draft was presented last year, our group asked for a little more time to be taken for the other sectors because we wanted to monitor quality. We have also said that there are quite a number of conditions. I think we all agree that sport and culture have long been in need of such an arrangement. Think of conductors, youth trainers, sports trainers, etc., where people did not always know how to arrange this. That can now be arranged correctly. It is a good thing that this can now be done simply and correctly. For the other sectors, we have, from the beginning of the discussion, called for some adjustments to be made in order to monitor quality. Our first concern was that the use of this system in the healthcare sector should and should continue to be guaranteed quality requirements. After all, we wanted the quality in the healthcare sector to remain at the current level. Bram Devolder, a researcher at the KU Leuven Centre for Legal Method, had done a work on this and wrote a very solid advice, in particular that the quality requirements are best recorded in the three pillars: in the association work, in the occasional services to the citizens and in the sharing platforms. It won't take long. We are very pleased that this opinion has been followed. It was also stipulated that the conditions and quality criteria of the Communities should be respected for the day-care and night-care of persons in need and for the care of children. That is the guarantee for us that quality in the healthcare sector will remain guaranteed. Madam Minister, with regard to the provision of support in residential care centres and facilities for people with disabilities and in need of care, I would like to ask a question about which you might be able to clarify later. It states that the rules governing the quality requirements for the professional exercise of those activities must be complied with. Under this statute, the operator of the activities has no status as an employed or self-employed person and is therefore not a stricto sensu professional activity. It is true that the purpose of this provision is to make a difference between the status as such and the activity being carried out and that, therefore, the activities remain subject to the application of Community and regional rules on quality and qualification requirements. I think it is important to distinguish between the status and activities and that the activities are also covered by the regional and Community rules on quality and qualification requirements. Our second concern was that there would be best consultation with the field of work. We are grateful that the Minister also addressed this issue so that the necessary time could be taken to enter into dialogue, not only with the field of work but also with the Communities and the Regions, so that they can adapt to the new reality. In this way we have also been able to make some improvements to this legislation. For example, changes were made to the activity list, wording improved on authorised activities, better definitions were formulated and so on. At the same time, there was consultation with the sectors. They also had a lot of concerns, which were also taken into account. Thus it became clear from the consultations that youth movements, the youth sector and the playground were not in favour of being included on the list of association work. We have dealt with this. As has already been pointed out, volunteers are mainly employed in this sector and it is intended that this will continue to be the case in the future as regards youth work. The sports sector indicated that the monthly ceiling of EUR 500 was insufficient for them. That's what we've been told. This sector has to deal with peak moments in school holidays, when there are many sports camps and so on. They asked for a monthly ceiling of EUR 1 000, but of course with a permanent annual ceiling of EUR 6 000. We have also been able to respond to this. There was also another contradiction, because in the sociocultural sector there are contracts of limited duration, of 25 days, whereby people can be employed with limited social security contributions and less tax burdens to support, among other things, the workings of the cultural sector. However, this meant that people cannot be allowed to work because they already have a contract of employment. In order to avoid this, we have gone into this and made sure that this is possible. We have also provided for an exception to the rule that the association worker and the organisation should not be bound by an employment contract 12 months prior to the contract. Finally, a number of proposals were made from the sociocultural sector to adapt the description and list of activities. We have also dealt with this so that things are more clearly and clearly aligned. This delay has led to a very successful consultation with the sectors. By means of a repair law, which is coming, we will be able to fill those concerns even better. It is also intended that this law and the repair law should come into force together so that we have proper regulation. In addition to the work of associations, this draft also regulates the services of citizens. In addition to traditional chores, this design also offers opportunities and opportunities to regulate and compensate for family support activities, for example. This responds to the concerns of Mr Griet Smaers who has tabled a proposal on family support. This will allow small family support activities to be arranged correctly and easily. Mr Clarinval has already mentioned that one year after the entry into force we will have to make an assessment which will then be submitted to the Chamber. That too was registered. It will enable us to monitor the application of this legislation in practice and its consequences. I am thinking, for example, of the consequences for regular employment, a legitimate concern. We will have to check whether this has any effect on that. The same applies to possible competition for the self-employed. We believe that we have handled this well with the design, but after a year we will consider whether the fears some have as regards competition for the self-employed, whether or not they are in an additional occupation, are justified. There are also concerns about social protection. In this respect too, after a year, it will be clear whether there should be adjustments. Madam Minister, I would just like to stress that, as far as we are concerned, the development of the sharing platform economy must be closely monitored. This must be closely monitored, because there are far fewer restrictions imposed there. In fact, only a tax adjustment was made. There is no requirement of four-fifths employment. Sharing platforms must be recognised by the public authorities, but there is no need for separate recognition per activity. There is also no exhaustive list of activities, which makes the risk of crowding out regular employment and unfair competition more real. We assume that this will not be the case, but we will have to ensure that this is closely monitored. It must be limited to additional jobs and everything must be done correctly. As far as the sharing platforms are concerned, therefore, we still have some work ahead of us, not only because it could cause us to lose a great deal of social security income, but also because, in this way, the most vulnerable people could be pushed into a precarious job without protection and without building up social rights. We assume that this will not happen and our group will continue to watch over this so that we can make the necessary adjustments in time. For the rest, we will support this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to be here today in front of you during the finalisation of the discussion of this draft law. When I compare the draft law with all the other drafts and proposals that we have discussed, I can see that it is probably a record bill. The design probably has the longest track record of all the designs and texts we have discussed here. Madam Secretary, your child was born with the summer agreement in the summer of 2017. We're almost a year later now. Soon it will hopefully be viable. It's been a long delivery. Some people wonder why. I have to admit, the opposition played the game well. The opposition has taken all the means out of the closet to delay the design, with the will to destroy it. It is the deep hope of many Members here that it would perish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u126	Mr President, we are not exhausted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u127	Mr Calvo, you are not exhausted. So I hope it will work today. Is there anything else you're planning? Will you do anything else? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u128	Mr Van Quickenborne, you have only 30 seconds left to speak and you are already taking a step in the right direction. After all, the opposition has not exhausted all the possibilities at all. She has sought many opportunities to enter into the substantive debate. Your speech, however, sounds almost like an invitation. I am now looking at the other Members, too, to make use of the additional possibilities that exist. That almost sounds like it. However, our opposition has been a substantive opposition. It is not just a question of opposition here in Parliament. Mrs Kitir just referred to it. I have also read the reports from the committee. There was also strong opposition from society, employers, workers and federations were also concerned. So it's too bad. It's a busy little baby from the Open Vld. However, do not dismiss the discussions on the draft as more detailed and procedural issues. It was a serious substantive debate, which was not only conducted by the opposition but also by others.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u129	That is why, Mr Calvo, the arguments that are being developed today are all completely new arguments? No. Those arguments were repeated, repeated and repeated into grief. Unfortunately, I will have to disappoint you today, because I will probably have to repeat all the points that have already been discussed in committee. You're talking about the techniques. What did the conflict of interest result in? What was the outcome of the second reading? They're all techniques that have been used and led to nothing. Mr Calvo, let me finish. I'll replicate. A debate is going in two directions. The second reading was the Greens' wish during the state reform. As chairman of that committee, I have seen many second readings. What did that get you, a second reading? In the long run, that second reading is gonna get worse than the Senate. I thought we were rid of the Senate, but we're importing the Senate's misery into us. Mr President, as President of this Chamber, I hope that you will take initiatives to review this procedure. Anyone who knows anything about this knows that this is absolutely not working as it should.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u130	Mrs Temmerman has the floor and then Mr Calvo. Ladies first , Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u131	Mr President, I will be very brief. Mr Van Quickenborne, we have already had second readings in the discussion of draft laws and legislative proposals, with a number of points being improved and corrected. Mr Vercamer has just referred to it, even in this case following a second reading. Let me remind you: this is just democracy. You have a bit of a problem with that, I understand, but this is just democracy. Why did that second reading come? Because in the past one had to go to the Senate with this, where one took the time to revisit some things and, if necessary, improve them. That is what the second reading is for. Once again, Mr Van Quickenborne, this has led to a real improvement in various draft laws and legislative proposals, including those that came from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u132	In fact, I should give Mr Van Hecke the floor, because he is the expert on second reading. After all, he is the colleague who, like others, is regularly able to correct stupidities of this majority thanks to the second reading. If you say that the second reading has no meaning, this means that you are not carrying around enough. It happens regularly, possibly not in the Committee on Social Affairs with the ram Van Quickenborne, but in other committees, that legislative work is improved at second reading. The second reading, of course, has its limitations, like any procedure, but it also has its merits. Mr Van Quickenborne, you are asking what the conflict of interests resulted in, what the hearings resulted in, what the second reading resulted in. It is true that this has produced too little, but that is not the problem of procedures, that is not the problem of conflict of interest, that is not the problem of hearings, that is not the problem of second reading, that is the problem of the Open Vld who does not want to listen. If ten people come to the committee to say that this is not a good thing, that this is a madness of Gwendolyn Rutten and Vincent Van Quickenborne, you say: we are going forward. When the Communities give feedback and advice, the Open Vld says: we do not take that into account. If there is a second reading in which legal arguments come forward from the Council of State, the Vld says: we continue, just do so. That is the problem, not the procedures, but the ideological madness of the Open Vld for which the small self-employed pays the price. That is the problem in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u133	There was Mr. Clarinval earlier, but since you're adding a layer, Mr. Van Quickenborne, I think it's starting to become too much! What are you doing? You're accusing us of a libouste! That you accuse politicians, pass it again, but when you talk about fliber, who are you accusing? You accuse all those who have manifested themselves during all these months, to you, to us, whether they are employers, trade unions, independents or actors of the non-marketer. All of us asked, all of you asked to move the lines. They highlighted unfair competition with the creation of genuine intra-Belgian dumping. The locks you've announced are front locks. If the government had been audacious, if it had had courage, you would have fundamentally reviewed your project! Denigrating opposition is one thing; accusing it of fliberous is another. On the other hand, to accuse the actors on the ground who have hoped, through these different stages, to be able to make you hear reason and to be able to develop this project, I find this totally unacceptable. And that's what you do!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u134	Mr Van Quickenborne, I would not normally interrupt you in the debate, but you use it a little to attack the second reading. I understand that it has taken you too long, but that is not because of the second reading. The second reading will lead to a maximum of two or three weeks of additional work and, in the event of urgency, the deadlines are even shorter. In the Committee on Justice we have the habit of organising a second reading for almost all the texts. Eighty to ninety percent of the texts in the Committee on Justice get a second reading, with an opinion from the Legal and Technical Service. I'd like to repeat that service is doing a wonderful job. I can assure you that at every second reading, many amendments are still tabled by the majority to make technical corrections and improvements, thanks to that work, which was previously done by the Senate. It takes two or three weeks. So, Mr Van Quickenborne, before you point your arrows at the second reading, speak to your colleagues in the Justice Committee. The majority even looks at the opposition in the long run, asking whether we will ask for the second reading, because it will be necessary. The majority also realises that the second reading is useful, that it is not a delay manoeuvre and that it helps the quality of our work forward. If you do not believe me, we can always ask the services how many amendments are adopted at second reading on average to correct the texts. I can assure you that there are many of them. By the way, this is being used far too little in other committees. Moreover, I sometimes doubt the legal quality of texts when they pass through at first reading. I have serious questions about that. Even after a second reading in the Committee on Justice, the texts will undoubtedly contain many errors, even though we can already correct a lot of them. You are welcome to criticise the majority, but you are wrongly attacking the second reading, because it is really a useful tool for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u135	Colleagues, nevertheless... (Protests from Mr Calvo) That has nothing to do with ideology, Mr Calvo. I speak from my four years of experience as chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. I was able to observe that no second reading in our committee has led to anything. That is the reality. I kindly ask the President of the Chamber to take initiatives to revisit, refine and improve the second reading, because I do not have good experiences with many colleagues. I hope, Mr President, that you will take initiatives to this end.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u136	I take note of that. [[Rumor]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u137	What comparison do you make now? Mr President, we have already been able to listen to a number of colleagues. I predict that the opposition will come here to give a list of problems, dangers, pitfalls and threats. It is as if the world is falling apart with this bill. If we listen to certain colleagues, we have not yet seen the end. I shall, of course, go into the negative aspects of the draft in detail later. Now, in the debate, I would first like to focus on the opportunities that the draft law brings with it. Outside Parliament, the economy is going through disruptions. Nothing's for sure. Business models are being turned upside down. Everyone, every independent or large company, has to innovate to survive. As politicians, we are often blamed for being behind. At the moment when we manage to adapt our legislation to reality, it has become obsolete again. That is the criticism we often get. When I listen to the criticism of the bill, I understand why there is so much criticism, Mr Calvo. Those who criticise stick to what we have, to the statutes and to the systems of decades ago. They hold on to this so strongly that they do not even dare to think innovatively anymore. It sounds harsh, but a disruptive society requires disruptive legislation. That's what we need. We must dare to think out of the box. It is now time, not for legislation that is so eager to be pushed up here on the left to restrict people's freedom, to say what should not be done, to restrict people, to impose rules, but for legislation that cherishes freedom and gives people freedom, Madam Minister. As early as 1830, the Constitution of our country, Mr Van der Donkt, showed that freedom is an essential condition. Of course, there are conditions. With this draft law, Mr Calvo, we are not dealing with ideological fetishism. If you come among the people, you would know that a lot of people live at home, in sports clubs, in parents and pensioners, in many associations and organisations, the question of how to organise things and earn something in a legal way, which is precisely regulated here. Many people like to earn something to make net progress, Mr Calvo. The best proof of this is the flexi jobs, which you have fought so hard but which today employ more than 30 000 people and which the catering industry is now so satisfied with. That is the reality. In the meantime, what you opposed has become a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u138	Mr van Quickenborne, when you speak of conservative groups, I do not feel at all addressed. The problem of legislation is not that it is disruptive. The problem is she's destructive. Actually, she takes down a lot of things that people think are important. You claim that Ecolo-Groen does not want to bouge, but then you did not listen very carefully to Mr Gilkinet. He has indicated that we are open to this possibility in a limited number of sectors. But the current story, in which far too much can be done, yes, we oppose it. Mr Van Quickenborne, I am increasingly finding that Open Vld is engaged in some kind of make-up operation. Your party has been a member of the government for over 20 years now. You've been pretty much everything in our country. But the burden on labour is still ridiculously high. The difference between gross and net is ridiculously large in this country for people who are just working. To compensate for that poor palmares, you are now beginning to come up with all kinds of new things, such as flexi-jobs and untaxed extra-earning. Well, I also come to people very often. What people are asking is not a second job, the income of which is free of tax, but a first job that is fairly taxed. They want to reduce the burden on labour for the first job, for a job that includes social protection, for a job with which a family can be combined. They don't want a second job, with a fake statute. I understand that after 20 years you feel the urge to compensate somewhat and to reduce taxes on labour, but please do so through regular statutes, in regular work with decent social protection. Then you're a real reformer. Then, as a liberal, you have a right to speak about just taxation, not when you launch fake statutes, which make people's lives more de facto difficult rather than easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u139	Mr Calvo, you think the text goes too far. Certain activities may not be possible for you. Call me the activities on the list that you do not think should be covered by the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u140	For example, Mr Gilkinet has just mentioned sport.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u141	Call them me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u142	That was also our position in the Flemish Parliament. If you had started with the feedback from the Communities, the design could have looked much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u143	Call me activities that you believe should not be regulated by this draft law. Name that one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u144	These are tasks that Mr Kitir has just mentioned, such as small maintenance orders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u145	Name them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u146	What we are going through here is actually very punishment. We are debating it for a year, and apparently you were so stubborn to see the draft approved that you have not listened to all the opposition's suggestions and amendments in the last few months. In certain sectors, such as recreational and sporting sectors, we may be able to make extra money, but when we enter into competition with the small self-employed, we say that we cannot do so. More and more, I see your question as an invitation to prolong the debate and even to develop new procedures, because it seems that you have not listened to all the examples that Mr Gilkinet, Mr Kitrir and Mr Onkelinx have brought into the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u147	Mr President, I do not know whether Mr Vercamer is well placed to give us lessons. I read the committee's report earlier and wondered whether it was part of the opposition or the majority. I like it and it is a little hard for me to stress it, but unfortunately it changed its mind when the text had not been amended. Perhaps other elements have been negotiated in the meantime. You blame us, Mr. Vercamer, for not making a counter-proposal. Some 15 amendments from Ecolo-Groen will be put to the vote later. That's a bad reprimand. We are clearly proposing to limit, on an experimental basis, the implementation of this new mechanism for the sports sector and the cultural sector, and then to evaluate it. That is what Mr Clarinval is proposing. We will then see if it can be applied to other sectors. If you really want to apply it to the classic economy, beyond the voluntary sector, avoid at least any sector in which the scheme would create unfair competition. Instead, focus on pockets of economic activity that are not covered by the services of self-employed, SMEs, and that meet needs that have not been met so far. In the non-market sector, the people's aid sector could suddenly see a series of people dislodged without a degree, operating without ethical accompaniment. You could make the implementation of this system conditional on agreements made, either within the Joint Committees or at the level of companies, to determine the functions that could, at worst, be carried out. These could be reception functions but not care functions, such as caregiving functions in this area. We have made many proposals tabled here in the form of amendments. I'm familiar with Mr. Van Quickenborne who thinks that he can be right on his own against the whole world, that is not only against the opposition, but also against a number of socio-economic interlocutors whom I think quite respectable. In your head, Mr Vercamer, it is quite unfortunate, given your own criticism of this text that you, like others, have had to swallow since the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u148	Mr President, I found Mr Vercamer's question very pertinent and I found that Mr Calvo had to call in a helpline after a year to get the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u149	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u150	Yeah, we know that! Mr Calvo, I am glad that you are interested in the EUR 500, which makes the debate a little more interesting. So I just said that when the flexi jobs were introduced, there was also opposition on the left. The opposition was against and called it a bad system. Today, more than 30 000 people are using it. There is satisfaction in the catering and retail sectors. It is a workable system, to shame and shame of some. Many went to the Constitutional Court, but were not right. The system's working. Mr Calvo, are you now convinced that the flexi-jobs system is working? Are you for or against?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u151	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u152	So you're against it. It's a good thing we know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u153	I'm energy efficient, so I want to outsource a lot of business, but I'm not gonna outsource a program to you, I'll do it myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u154	Are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u155	Our position has not changed. We are still saying, even after the so-called success of flexi-jobs, that it would be much more interesting to reduce the burden on labour for these categories of wages in the normal statute than to devise a new fake statute. In that respect, I have no hesitation in expressing our position. We are not in favour and therefore against the flexi-jobs system. We have other alternatives, which offer more social protection and which really offer people a perspective. And we're not going to apologize for that. On the contrary, we will continue to try to convince the primeval conservation liberals. We want to tackle the high taxes in the first job, in the normal working environment. But we're not the big fans of the fake statute and the second job and third job, which you seem to be wild about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u156	You need a lot of time to answer, but you're against what I predicted. We can now inform the catering and retail trade in Flanders that with Green a system like that of flexi-jobs will disappear. That's obvious, too. Thanks for the clarity. Let me say this. This government and the liberals, in particular, take into account the reality in the field, what is happening on the ground. We look at the theoretical economic models for which you declare ourselves in a different way. I see you're not listening, so I'm going to continue my speech. The flexi-jobs system is a solution but it is limited to a number of sectors such as catering and retailing. We want to give people the opportunity to update in other ways, for example by working a few hours a week for a local association. I am thinking, for example, of a sports trainer in a football club, of teaching music to school children during lunchtime, of doing tasks for the neighbors, in exchange for a small fee. The desire to earn something is not new; that does not exist only since 2017, Madam Secretary. The fact that people want to earn extra money is not your credit. We have to be honest about that. However, our current system has never allowed such activities to take place, because of our strict straitjacket of existing employee and self-employed statutes. Those who say that they should do so as self-employed people in the secondary professions underestimate the administrative burden and cost of occasional, non-professional activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u157	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u158	No, Mr. Calvo. If you have followed the debate, this is all new to you; therefore, it will take a little longer today, and you would know that the Minister has explained for a year that a self-employed worker is not an occasional activity but a professional activity. This is about an occasional activity. I'll give you the definition before bedtime.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u159	For me, it is a little newer than for the colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs. Indeed, I am discovering new elements. What I find, in particular, Mr Van Quickenborne, is that we have to vote on this because you have failed, for 20 years now, to tackle the real problems. Since the Open Vld fails to reduce the administrative burden on the self-employed in the secondary sector, it is now necessary to create a new problem with this system, rather than dealing with the actual problems. We must therefore approve a new problem because the Open Vld is unable to tackle the existing problems. That's sad. This reads as a large letter from powerlessness from the Flemish Liberal Democrats. That's what it comes down to. That is what I discover as a newcomer to this debate. You leave behind to tackle what really needs to be addressed in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u160	Mr Calvo, you are new and a rookie in the debate. That's good. The problem is that such activities cannot be solved by means of the self-employed status in the secondary sector. That is not possible, because self-employed people in the secondary profession, which is about a professional activity, while this is about an occasional activity. A sports teacher in a club cannot be proposed to become self-employed in a secondary occupation. That's crazy. That also shows that you don't know much about the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u161	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u162	Yes, you do. Mr Calvo proposed that the problem should be solved by means of the self-employed status in the secondary occupation. That's what he's saying here. In other words, that would mean that any sports teacher may become self-employed in a secondary occupation. I wish you every success! After the catering we will tell the sports clubs what Green wants for the sports teachers. That's obvious, too. Colleagues, it's about earning extra money. So these are people who already have a main activity or, Mrs Onkelinx, pensioners who have already worked. So it's about people who already work. You know what work is. That's obvious. They are, therefore, people who have a social status, who are insured and who pay social contributions. They may earn additional income in the system without having to give up more than half of what a person normally has to do. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u163	Let's take the case of a small pensioner who, lured by your new system, comes to paint and falls from the escapeau. What are you doing? He has no insurance against accidents at work. What are you doing? You pick him up. In what condition? If he does, he replaces a regular worker who was protected and who was involved in social security and payment, including your health care. We will have less resources there. What's your answer? We are still waiting for the answer to that. All the social partners, whether they are representatives of employers or workers, told you that. You're completely deaf, only because you want your little rattle! "We, Open Vld, exist. We wanted this, we got it"! That's bullshit! And you never answer the questions you are asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u164	It is fantastic, ladies and gentlemen, to see Mrs Onkelinx's passionaria come up again. So it hurts that this bill... [[Loud protest]] We can learn a lot from the style of Mrs. Onkelinx, the passionaria. Give me a chance to do the same. First of all, it obviously hurts that this bill will make it. Good. The insurance. Quite simply, when it comes to association work, the association is, of course, obliged to take out insurance. When it comes to citizens-to-citizens or the platform system, one has to do like any self-employed person, in particular to take out insurance. For an activity such as creating websites one must of course take out a different insurance than when one is on a height worker. That is the reality today. If, of course, one does not know much about self-employed people, then one does not know how it works. This is the system as it should be. Colleagues, this draft law is apparently a shock to the opposition. I think I know why, too. Madam Minister, it is the first time in this country that we will allow people to earn something extra without paying a euro in taxes or a euro in social contributions. That's revolutionary! The opposition is against, but why? Are you so addicted to this tax burden, to these taxes and social contributions? You should be satisfied that what people get gross is also net. Isn't it progress for people if they make a net gain? That's strengthening people's purchasing power, that's giving people more. Isn't that what we all want, that people are making net progress? Why is the opposition so addicted to taxes and social contributions? I don't understand. Explain it to me, Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u165	This is crazy! You're not answering. If you said to the population: "You don't pay social contributions, but it's no big deal. We're going to go to a capital tax on what to organize health care, pensions, etc." But that's not what you tell them! You tell them: "You do not pay contributions but if there are no means, what do you want, you will pay more to get you treated; you will not be able to secure a pension worthy of that name, etc." Tell them the whole truth! Tell them, "You don't pay social security contributions and, well, your well-being will be abhorred." Tell them the truth! That is the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u166	The truth is that all the people who have that kind of extra earnings are already insured and that they are already paying social contributions. Mrs. Onkelinx, when are you going to understand that? The people who have this kind of extra earnings are already insured, they pay social contributions. What we are doing here is exempting the additional income from taxes and social security contributions. In other words, that is a good thing. Colleagues, the question is whether such additional earnings already exist today. Mr Calvo, does that already exist, a sports teacher who helps in a sports club, someone who helps an elderly person, someone who goes to school on Wednesday afternoons while the parents are at work? Does that kind of activity exist or not? I believe this even exists in Mechelen. When you come to friends and acquaintances, with two-earers, you'll hear it from time to time. The question is, of course, what is happening with that today. The reality is that all this is happening under the radar, to say it to his Flemish "in black." That is the reality. Do you want to solve that or do you say that you prefer to keep your eyes closed, that you want to continue with his Belgian and so pretend it doesn't exist? That was the problem in the hospitality business. That's why we set up a new system of flexi-jobs, overtime and a white cash register that would make it black out and improve the system. This is now happening in the hospitality sector, and here we are doing so for many other sectors. In other words, we are ensuring that there is a clear system of cross-compliance. That gives people legal certainty, and so it is a step forward. There is, moreover, a group which we have paid very little attention to in the discussion, the pensioners. I don't know if you get an e-mail from a retired person every now and then? I get a lot of them every day. I receive daily e-mails from pensioners who, thanks to this government, can earn unlimited income after a career of 45 years or over 65 years. Those people then email me that they have to spend everything they've earned in the tax bill entirely on social security contributions and taxes. Often there is no company tax and the surprise for those people is complete. I note, then, that these pensioners have contributed their whole lives, have retired, are still paying social contributions, but are not actually able to enjoy them. Why not? Their pension is not rising and they cannot benefit from unemployment benefits. You may tell me that they are getting health care after all. Now, a retired person who does not keep up, enjoys health care as much as the one who does. In fact, we have to ask ourselves why a retired person who earns extra social contributions and taxes should still have to pay. He's done that all his life. Well, today, thanks to this system, we can allow pensioners to increase their pension amount monthly by EUR 500 net, pure purchasing power, without taxes and without social contributions. I call that social progress, including for those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u167	Mr Van Quickenborne, I have two reservations. Firstly, I do not necessarily dream of a society where pensioners still have to earn extra money at all costs. What's wrong with grandparents taking care of their grandchildren or with a sports teacher who just does it out of love for sport? This has not been the subject of much discussion today. I'm making a second thought of what you just said. I find out a lot. Your social project will become even clearer, your perspective for pensioners will become even clearer. The story of Open Vld for pensioners over the next 20, 30 years is that we will not increase their statutory pension, that we will keep it low, so that they have a good incentive to earn extra money after their career. Mr Van Quickenborne, we are choosing a different model. We want people to have a full pension, so that they do not have to go back to work, so that after the age of 67 they do not have to wonder what they will do, whether they will fix a garden or look after children they do not know or become tennis teachers when they cannot play tennis. In our society, pensioners should not worry about it, because then we will ensure a full pension and security after their careers, without having to do any additional work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u168	Mr Van Quickenborne, I listened very carefully to your speech. You say that people who are retired have contributed to their entire lives and that it is only natural that, when they are retired, they should be able to earn EUR 500 untaxed. Then what do you do for those who have also contributed their whole lives, at a low wage, and who are physically unable to do work and get a low pension? Then what answer do you offer these people? Do you think it is okay that you introduce a system in which only the healthy people who are lucky enough to earn extra money are entitled to those 500 euros free of tax, while other people who are unable to do so for health reasons, but who have also contributed their entire lives, cannot earn 500 euros free of tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u169	And who gives you less pension because of all the measures that have been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u170	I am going to answer Mr Calvo first and then Mrs Kitir. Mr Calvo, you are talking about a model of society. I have already asked you two questions and you have said twice that you are against them. That is your model: you are against, against the change against flexi-jobs and apparently now against the system in which pensioners can earn unlimited extra money after 65 years. We have indeed fought for 20 years for this, and with the present government we have finally succeeded. One step at a time, we made it. The PS has admitted something, and then we have worked even further and now we are there. So we do not tell people to do that, we give them freedom. Do you know that concept, freedom? Freedom means that one can choose: one must not, one may. That is another thing than banning: that is your social model, with rules, banning, against being. Our model is to give freedom, let people choose, trust people to make choices, not patronize them, let people make choices. That's freedom. That is a different model of society, hence Green is indeed not the Open Vld. I am also glad that we are in two different parties. You sometimes think you're a liberal: you're a bit of an entrepreneurial person. This is how you behave in Parliament, but when it comes to it, freedom must be applied consistently, and you do not. Mrs Kitir, you ask me what we do with people who can't and who have a low pension. You know that the government has made serious efforts to raise minimum pensions. For the minimum pension of the self-employed there was a net increase of up to 150 euros per month and for the employees there was a net increase of up to 100 euros per month. If it depends on us, it'll still go up. As far as the reality of pensions is concerned, I refer to Mr Vandenbroucke's interview in Knack this week. That's an eye-opener. If you haven't read it, check the tweets, you'll see. He pleads to work until 67. I guess that's your program. If you want more pension, you have to work longer than 67. If you stop for 67, you get less pension. That's literally in the interview. He also says that he is willing to promise 1 500 euros a pension if people work until 67. That is exactly what this government has said. We can raise pensions, but we have to work longer. The sp.a has lost its way since the Vandenbroucke party was lost. Vandenbroucke was right. I sometimes homesick about Frank Vandenbroucke, when I read that article, because the man points it right, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u171	The show must go on, Mr. Van Quickenborne. I have told you hundreds of times that you must read Mr Vandenbroucke's report in full. You should now also read the interview in Knack in full. It is very clear that it must be possible for people to work longer. How can we do that? For example, by stimulating runways. That's not in the interview, that's right, but he's said it hundreds of times. What has this government done and what is it still doing? Make the runways harder and harder. What is Mr Vandenbroucke still defending? The pension bonus. If you work longer, you have to keep the pension bonus. One of the first measures taken by this government was the abolition of the pension bonus. There is still a whole series of things. You have certainly forgotten to read, Mr Van Quickenborne, that the interview in Knack says that consideration should be given to a different funding, in addition to labour. Now pensions are paid in full by labour. Consideration should also be given to ensuring that pensions and social security are paid by wealth. That's also in the Knack interview, Mr. Van Quickenborne. So you also read, like the report, the Knack interview very selectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u172	Mr President, I would suggest that we leave the debate on pensions. Mrs Temmerman, I would be happy to have the debate again. I don't have a problem with that. You know that. That's not a problem for me. However, I propose that we return to the essence, in particular to the draft law. Mr President, shall I do it anyway? Okay, well, the whole interview has a passage on the property tax. Mr Vandenbroucke says that we need a capital tax to finance the system. First of all, I would like to point out that we are already financing a lot of social security through the property tax, as I pointed out in a previous debate. Secondly, I'll tell you something you'll find incredible. I dare tell you this here today. If you, the sp.a and the PS, are prepared to take over all the other elements of Mr Vandenbroucke, I would even like to speak about the power tax. However, you must be prepared to do so. Read all the elements carefully, but I don't think you'll ever be willing to take them over. After all, your President promises a pension of EUR 1 500 for 42 years' work. Even Mr Vandenbroucke thinks that is insane. However, they are members of the same party. That is unthinkable! However, I suggest that we have another debate on this. I'm quite prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u173	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u174	Those are your words. Colleagues, during one of my speeches I promised to say something about the alleged threats. There have been a number of warnings from organisations, which I would like to refute point by point. There is, among other things, the question of alleged unfair competition. I must honestly confess, like Mr Van der Donkt, that the concerns of unfair competition are also our concerns. That is precisely why we have incorporated many safeguards into the draft law in order to avoid unfair competition. The first guarantee is the capping of the amount, i.e. a maximum of EUR 500 per month and therefore a maximum of EUR 6 000 per year. The latter amount is cumulative for the three pillars: union work, citizen-to-citizens and the collaborative economy. Moreover, Mr Calvo, and this is very daring and I advocated it ten years ago; at that time Mr Calvo was not in politics at the time, the sharing economy is obliged to pay everything digitally. Everything has to be paid electronically. I challenge you to tell me which sectors in our country are prepared to move from cash to electronic payments. What sectors dare to argue that? That's the best way to get rid of the undeclared work. So join the collaborative economy system. That's what we need. The second condition is that one has to work at least four fifths, be self-employed in the main occupation or retire. In other words, someone who meets those conditions cannot work hours and days, because it is a side-activity. Thirdly, there are several anti-abuse provisions. Mr Van der Donkt has listed them and I will not repeat them. I find Knack interesting to read these days, unlike two years ago, Mr Van Rompuy. So today I read an interview in Knack with Mr Vandenbroucke and an interview with Mrs Kitir. The Socialists are being addressed, and we think that is a positive thing. In the interview, Ms Kitir wondered what one would do if a painter, working for an employer, would compete with his boss during his hours of extracurricular work. Mrs Kitir, the employment law makes it very clear to Mr Lachaert, the expert in this assembly will confirm that someone who works with an employer should never compete disloyally with his employer. If that person becomes self-employed, what he can do today, he may never disloyally compete with his employer. If he does, he gets fired for urgent reasons. That is the reality. It used to be, it is today and it will be tomorrow. So there's no deloyal competition. The law is clear about that. That's what the Minister's bill says.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u175	Mr Van Quickenborne, thank you for raising that example and for paying due attention to the interview. We also had that debate in committee. I questioned the Minister about this and I received three different answers. The answer was that if a student needs further training, it is obvious that a teacher does it after hours. If an electrician does that, we'll have to take another look at it. For example, an electrician may replace an exploded fuse, but not the entire electrical installation of the kitchen. Mr Van Quickenborne, how will you check that? Because that's different from what you're saying. How do you define occasional services? I see that you wish to answer. I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u176	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please note that Mrs Kitir's question is very pertinent. Colleagues who have not followed the debate, I can tell you that it is now becoming very interesting. What exactly are occasional activities? It seems so unclear, it looks like sand slipping through the fingers. Well, the answer to that question can be given by UNIZO. On UNIZO's website we literally see what we mean by an occasional activity. So I can answer with thanks to UNIZO. I quote: 'One must distinguish here between a profitable occupation with a professional character and an occasional or casual operation without a professional character. It is mainly the tax authorities and the RSVZ that assess this on the basis of a number of criteria. Account shall be taken, inter alia, of the frequency of operations carried out over several years, of the number of transactions carried out, of the interconnectedness, of the nature and the rapid succession of operations carried out, of the importance of the operations and of the organisation which they involve, of the fact that they have been carried out by means of borrowed funds, of cooperation between two or more persons and of the fact that a secondary activity is closely linked to the principal activity of the taxable person concerned or is a continuation of his professional activity. The more these elements are present, the more likely the existence of a professional activity in the tax sense. In practice, the criteria are particularly important in terms of regularity, frequency and number of operations." Moreover, Article 9.90.1 of the Income Tax Code defines various income from occasional activities. They are "profits or benefits, however called, which even occasionally or accidentally, outside the exercise of a professional activity, arise from any performance, operation or speculation or from services rendered to third parties, including normal operations of management of a private asset consisting of immovable property, portfolio values and movable property." Ladies and gentlemen, in other words, we should not define that definition further because it already exists in our legal system. Both social and fiscal legislation has clearly defined what occasionally means. How can we solve that? You will say that this sounds very theoretical and that is correct. Legislation is often theoretical. We have therefore asked the Minister to allow people to ask the RSZ via a tool whether or not the exercise of a particular activity can be considered occasional. We want to give people legal certainty and make it clear to them whether or not something can be done. So it is not only the legislation that is clear, we are going to have people informed clearly before they start the activity. Madam Secretary, I understand that the tool is now ready. You also had a year to deal with him, thanks to the opposition. For the students it works well, for Student@work. Maybe Green is against that system because it is also flexible. We know that by now. Mr Calvo, you're probably against student work, too? The enlargement is now? A little progressive, though, okay. Finally, I would like to comment on a number of counter-arguments. After all, I have the right to speak for Mrs Kitir, and I do not want to interrupt her constantly, because that is rather unbearable. I'm gonna check in on her interview in Knack. You say that trade unions, employers' organisations, associations and volunteers are all opposed to this. I must confess that trade unions and employers are critical, if not very critical of this new measure. I do not think, however, that we should expect much innovation from pillars, interest groups and corporatists. These people want to defend the existing structures in particular. That is the reality. If we want to renew in politics, then we must dare to distance ourselves from it. We saw that yesterday with the flexibility deal we made, including a tenth and flexibility. If we had let it depend on the social partners, we would not have made it. The employers were against it. We said that we would do it anyway, and we did it. In that debate, there is the same problem, namely that these organisations hold each other in such a way that nothing really new can ever come. That is the chance we have with this bill, because we have indeed dared to think out of the box.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u177	I'd like to make a few corrections. I am certainly pleased that we have reached an agreement, but it is not the case that the social partners were opposed to the one-tenth arrangement. On the contrary, they put that forward in a collective agreement in December 2016. We've been working on it for a long time. They confirmed that. They thought that was a good proposal. The social partners also strongly supported it, so this social dialogue remains important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u178	Mrs Lanjri, like you, I have read the comments of the VBO on Mr Spooren's proposals. People were very critical about this. Mr. Spooren, don't let that bother you too much. They're bold proposals. We must renew, we must continue. Our party will not let its fate depend on those organizations. Sometimes they say useful things and sometimes they don't. It's not because VOKA says so, that Open Vld says so. Open Vld is a party that consistently stands up for what it stands for, namely freedom and the defence of freedom. The reality is that there will never be much support for such organisations in relation to such legislation. After all, that doesn't fit in their booth. The whole structure is based on those old statutes. Take, for example, the unitary statute. What took you so long? All this to do with this corporatism, which is still too much for our country. But people are getting away from it and this is an important step. Mrs Kitir, the second objection is that this bill would put pressure on volunteers. You said that this will increase the pressure on associations, they will now have to pay for the work. The volunteer will be asking for pennies now. Those are two completely different worlds. After all, there really is volunteering, and we cherish it. We have also improved that statute, thanks to Minister De Block. Those are people who do that without wanting to get paid. In addition, there are occasional activities, for example as a football trainer, for which one wants to get something. This is not a disgrace, but it cannot be solved by volunteering, because that statute does not make it possible. That is why we are making this possible here and now with the proposed system. By the way, with the listed list of organizations in the resistance, someone has been forgotten. The High Council for Volunteers was literally asking party to the system. It is a pity that we do not agree with that. The third objection is that the system once again serves the workers, while the low-skilled jobseekers do not work with it. That's right. It confirms the thesis that one can only earn extra money if one has a job. Perhaps we should explain that to Mrs Onkelinx. For the low-skilled jobseekers, we are also taking other measures, such as the reduction of charges, which Mr Calvo with Green has voted against, because his motto is against. The reduction was the highest for the lowest skilled, for those at the bottom of the work ladder. That's what we did. Moreover, anyone who really wants to do something for the low-skilled must dare to do what Professor Ive Marx has always advocated: more flexibility, especially at the bottom of the labour market. For the moment that is totally taboo in this country, especially at sp.a. However, that is the only way to get the low-skilled to work. The fourth objection concerns the lack of quality conditions. I quote Mrs Kitir literally from Knack: "People do not have to meet any condition to carry out any work."With all due respect, but that is bullshit. We may disagree, but what she says is completely incorrect. The draft law does not change any quality or safety standards. Besides, we shouldn't be allowed to go to N-VA, because that's regional matter and we shouldn't do that. Whether it is about electricians, plumbers or day or night caretakers, all possible standards and rules remain fully applicable. One pretends that everyone can now suddenly act like an electrician or a nurse. Whoever says that either has not been paying attention, or is spreading false information. I shall confine myself to doing so so so as not to put the moods on any further. I'm finishing up, colleagues. Many of us are getting nervous when they want to give people freedom, when they want to free people from the tight straitjacket of statutes that prevents them from helping each other, to help each other out, in short, to stick their hands out and to earn something extra. Throw that fear away. Believe in freedom, cherish freedom, trust the people. If one gives freedom, the impossible becomes possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u179	Colleagues, may I just say for the record that I will have to reset the system? I plan it between 7:30 and 8:00. That depends on the length of each speaker's speaking time. (Protests from Mr Calvo) Mr. Calvo, we have to reset. We shall then suspend for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u180	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I really thought that after Mr Van Quickenborne's speech, I could delete half of my pages from my speech, because I would be convinced by his critical remarks. Unfortunately, I've seen a lot of show, but I haven't heard a lot of substantive counter-arguments. So I'll keep my lines. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrowland will start in two weeks. So it is almost a year since the government celebrated its summer agreement. The proposal we are discussing today was part of that. After a year we can therefore reassure ourselves that this law has been a long, and especially bumpy, course. What's the bill about? If the measure it contains is adopted soon, the pensioners and those working four fifths will be able to earn no additional tax for EUR 500 per month, EUR 6 000 on an annual basis. The activities which may be carried out are divided into three categories: the work of association, the service between citizens and the sharing platforms. Colleagues, I will come back to these three specific services, but I can already say that the list that will be approved is far too broad. That is also the main reason why the text received a lot of criticism last November. There was a unanimous negative opinion from the social partners. They're trying to get it out of here like bullshit. The Council of State gave a negative opinion. A whole series of civil society organisations and professors wrote an open letter, but the government shrugged its shoulders and submitted the law to Parliament at the beginning of December without any changes. In mid-December, we organised extensive hearings in the Social Affairs Committee with ten civil society organisations ACV, ACLVB, BDVV, FeBIO, Unizo, USM, NSZ, Plateforme francophone, the High Council for Volunteers and Unisoc. Colleagues, they were very diverse organisations, both trade unions and employers, organisations representing both small and large companies, employers from both the profit and non-profit sectors, both volunteers and professionals. Yet they were all against the bill. They express their criticism and have often had sharp criticism. They also made a lot of suggestions for improvement. However, the majority has also now shrugged its shoulders and passed the law in committee unchanged. A conflict of interest was then invoked and the federal government was forced to consult with the Länder on the law, because many powers were affected: care for the elderly, childcare and youth work. During these consultations, the law was criticised and suggestions for amendment were made. Minister De Block has noted that she understands the comments made and has announced a recovery law. Today, however, we note that the recovery law is not yet in place and, as we have received it, the law is before the vote. So the opposition was now obliged to table the suggestions for improving the law, which have been put forward from many quarters, as an amendment and to request an opinion from the Council of State. The government has again shrugged its shoulders on this. It ignored the opposition's amendments and the Council of State's opinion. Once again, the law is put to the vote without amendment. Colleagues, history says a lot about this law. Nobody wants the law. Everyone warns about its impact on the labour market, on volunteering, on the care sector and on the small self-employed. Within the majority too, as I know, there is little enthusiasm for the law. However, it is only because the Open Vld wants a trophy that the law must be approved. Today, the eyes are closed or, as Mr Lachaert recently said, the announcement by Unizo Ohio, which today, moreover, announces that we are going to move to the Constitutional Court, responded: we really need to adopt the law now, because if we amend the law again, we will have left again for months. It is also the majority's belief that there is no unfair competition. If that turns out to be the case, she'll change the law later. So I'm not under any illusions. The majority will today approve the bill, despite the opposition of many, without any adjustments. Nevertheless, I have not given up hope and I will explain our main comments on the legislative text and explain our 20 pragmatic amendments. These are amendments in which we do not reject the idea, but in which we want to get rid of the sharpest aspects of the text and close the open door to distortion of competition and the deprofessionalisation of care for children and the elderly. Before I begin, I would like to express my disappointment at the Minister of Work, Kris Peeters. He did not use the long period of discussion of this draft law to consult the Joint Committees in the meantime, to examine with each of them the activities for which the proposed measures were realistic and feasible and to examine the activities for which there was no risk of displacement or de-professionalisation. However, the social partners had asked for this kind of consultation. They recognise that in some sectors, such as sport, there was a need for a more flexible scheme for the existing voluntary allowance. However, if they received the draft texts, they called them "too vague, too broad-based and insufficiently framed, and there is a risk that this channel might develop professional activities which, by playing in the private sphere,"....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I quote the fundamental criticism of the social partners and many others. That is still our fundamental criticism today. One general scheme for sectors and activities with such wide differences is likely to have major consequences. Quality standards, safety rules, the protection of workers, consumers and the environment are at stake. This is precisely why the social partners asked for consultation and an in-depth impact analysis, sector by sector, activity by activity and public administration by government. The wish of the social partners was clear, but the current government, as it often does, has only words of respect for the social partners, but not in action. They therefore did not receive the consultations requested. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to go further into the three categories. In this way, I will explain my amendments at the same time. First of all, I'm going into the union work. For the association work, the design lists a laundry list of no less than 17 activities that will be admitted under the system of free extra income: from animators in the youth movement or playground work to sports trainers, from coordinators in youth homes to guides in culture or nature, making newsletters on websites for associations but also, for example, guidance in child care and support in retirement homes and facilities for people with disabilities. A first important remark comes from the High Council for Volunteers, which Mr Van Quickenborne feared I would forget him, but also from the Flemish Volunteers Support Point. I quote them:'(...) that the Minister has been overzealous in listing the activities covered by the new Staff Regulations. There are many activities that are now simply carried out by volunteers with heart and soul and passion." Those associations are therefore afraid that voluntary work will come under pressure. In future, if we can get EUR 500 free of charge per month for these tasks, who will want to do these tasks as a volunteer and how will associations find people who want to do so unpaidly? How should associations be able to meet the expectations created by this law? The Red Cross put it as follows: "There is simply no demand for compensation for our volunteers, quite the contrary. Our volunteers receive no pay for the work they do today, and that just makes them volunteers. These volunteers now get the feeling that their commitment is not appreciated, while it is priceless. These volunteers will now be put under pressure by this law to make the same effort against a fee. The fact that the Minister then managed to say during the discussion in the Senate that there was no negative comment from organizations that mainly work with volunteers, such as the Red Cross, is incredible." A second criticism of the list of permitted activities in the association work comes from organisations such as Society Building, Network Against Poverty, Caritas and Welfare. They are concerned about the effects on the most vulnerable people in society. Barely half of the low-skilled population is at work today. And what does the government do? What is just interesting for those people is already being reserved for the third time for other people. First there was the expansion of student labour. Then there was the expansion of the flexi-jobs. Today there is also the unpaid additional income of EUR 500 per month. It is always about tasks that can often be carried out by low-skilled people. Each time it is about tasks that the government now reserves for students, pensioners or people who already have a job. The associations described it as follows: "Untaxed and easily accessible leisure work thus comes into direct competition with the tasks of the district worker or the short-term skilled who want to take steps towards the labour market'. Today, if we want to call on an unemployed person or a living wager to take care of the garden or to take care of children or the elderly, we must process a genuine paper mountain. With this legal text you can easily, possibly via an app, contact pensioners and people who already have a job. Thus, once again, opportunities are being taken away from the unemployed or wage-earners who want to take steps towards the labour market. The government is full of jobs, jobs, jobs, but it is taking away opportunities from those looking for a job and giving extra opportunities to people who already have a job today. A third and final criticism of the association work came from the Flemish Youth Council. He wrote on his website: "From the early days of youth work, this innovation has been strongly criticised. The Flemish Youth Council has long argued that volunteers of youth movements, youth homes and playgrounds should be removed from the list of authorised functions. Youth work firmly believes in the power of unpaid voluntary policies and is supported in them, not by the least." They did get support. They have also received support from Flemish Minister Gatz and even from our Minister, Mrs De Block. She has announced in the Senate that there will be a repair law, but despite that announcement there is no change today. Then I come to the second category in the legislative text: the occasional services between citizens. For this category, too, the design lists a long list of permitted activities: childcare, care for caretakers, tutoring in music, art or sports, small maintenance work on the home, help with computer problems, small household tasks and even the maintenance of gravestones. First of all, there is the fear of the social partners that there will be no guarantee of quality, quality which has been hard fought over the past few years and which is now being called into question by a legislative text. In the case of house maintenance, there is, in turn, the great and justified fear of unfair competition by self-employed organisations. Small self-employed people are threatened with competition from pensioners or even their own employees. It is bad, but the Minister manages not to clarify or provide certainty even in this dossier. On my simple question whether someone who works as an electrician in an SME and places electrical installations after his hours, may also do minor repairs and repairs under this draft, I received three different answers in committee. First, she replied that, in the context of occasional services between citizens, the main employer should not be exposed to competition. An electrician of a company is not allowed to carry out electricity works from citizen to citizen. Then she said that the electrician can replace a jumped fuse with his neighbors, because that can be considered an occasional service. However, if his neighbors ask him to completely replace the electrical installation of their home, he cannot answer that question. Finally, after some discussion, the Minister said that Article 17 of the Employment Agreement Act already prohibits the employee from engaging or participating in unfair competition during or after the termination of the employment contract. She also noted that the electrician or the ICT operator would undoubtedly compete unfairly with his employer if, for example, he provided occasional services to a customer of his employer. This employer could normally put an end to unfair competition by turning the employee in on the social inspection, the Minister said. The Minister therefore creates a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty in those who want to make extra money with services to citizens. How are they supposed to know what the minister means by occasional chores? According to the Minister, these are activities which are not carried out by the company or the self-employed person. In the example just now, the Minister mentioned the replacement of a burst fuse as an occasional job, but is that an activity that is not done by an enterprise or self-employed person? I don't think so, but those are also activities that entrepreneurs and self-employed people are carrying out today. According to the Minister, the assistant may not engage in activities with a customer of his employer, but do we really expect the employees to know all the customers of their employer? I don't think so. In the Minister's view, the back-up worker should not advertise either, but is the willingness to do such activities a form of advertising? I don't know. In short, there is still a lot of uncertainty and uncertainty for those who want to do some work, but there is also a lack of protection. For example, the clerk is obliged to take out civil liability insurance, but he does not receive any cover in the event of an accident at work or an occupational disease. Moreover, there is no provision for well-being at work. For example, if the cleaver is going to prune the hedge and cut off his finger, then he has to solve it himself. The klusser is not protected in the extra jobs. This will also have an impact on the main occupation in which four fifths are employed; there too, there will be no compensation. The uncertainty is also an asset for the customers. They also do not know what an occasional job is, what is covered by this law and what is not an occasional job and for which they have to engage a company or a self-employed person. And I am not talking about the lack of quality assurance. How can the customer know if someone in addition comes to work on the insurance cabinet, also has the necessary knowledge? Finally, there is the third category, i.e. services through organisations recognised as a sharing platform. The best known examples are Deliveroo and Uber. They have to meet even fewer conditions than the other categories. The previous comments are therefore all the more relevant here. Above all, the examples of Deliveroo and Uber prove that this is really problematic. Over the last few months, there has been a debate on the status of Deliveroo couriers. Are they employees or self-employed? What status do they have and what protection do they enjoy? The minister contacted the inspection and the court is also working on the case. As in Spain, where a judge recently ruled that couriers were employees, this case is still ongoing. With this bill, the whole discussion is thrown into the wastebasket. By being recognised as a collaborative platform, they are covered by the law on untaxed additional income and therefore have no statute. So the government simply organizes unfair competition. Ladies and gentlemen, our group has tabled a series of amendments to deal with all these problems and dangers. For example, there are amendments to remove youth work from the law; amendments to remove personal and care-related activities from the law, otherwise the quality of care will be called into question; amendments to clarify the type of activities that an employee may perform alongside his professional activities; amendments to protect the employee from the serious consequences, dismissal for urgent reasons, financial claims for damages hanging over his head for matters which he does in good faith, but which after all prove to be unfair competition with his employer; amendments also to avoid possible displacement of regular work, by limiting the number of benefits by the same user and their remuneration, why should it be EUR 500 per month, while EUR 300 can equally be? Our group understands that people want to make extra money in addition to their regular professional activities. Our group also understands that in some sectors, such as sport, there is a need for more than the existing voluntary allowance and for more flexible regulation. However, without the amendments tabled by our group and by our fellow Members, this draft law goes too far. Real jobs and real volunteering are threatened. Quality loss and reduction of social rights and employment status are at risk in several sectors. That is why I would like to call once again on my colleagues in the majority to take the amendments seriously. A simple, same solution for all sectors is inconceivable and, above all, unworkable. There is a need for an activity-oriented approach, with not only a list of the types of activities, but also what may be actively carried out by sector. It is necessary to consult each joint committee and the Communities and the Regions in order to know the real needs and needs to which this draft law seeks to respond. That was the question of the social partners, but the government did not. The result is a law that poses a major threat to volunteering, the care sector, the self-employed and the labour market. That is why my group will vote against the draft law if the amendments are not adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u181	This text, the vote of which will make it possible to earn no contribution or tax of 500 euros per month for different categories of workers, will have a good place in the gallery of horrors of this legislature. Well done, Mr. Van Quickenborne! Proficiate, minister mevrouw! You managed to achieve unanimity, once it was not customary, but it was against you. No luck! There are a number of very respectable interlocutors. There are not only bad unions, bad Francophone unions. There is also the National Labour Council, which on November 29, 2017, notes that there is no sector-by-sector impact assessment and wonders what you are going to do. On 30 November 2017, the Conseil Supérieur des Indépendants et des PMEs expressed its concern about the impact of the measures, the Union des Classes Moyennes, the SNI, UNISOC, the Joint Committees 332, 318.01, 319.02, 329, 330, the Council of State which you do not like, the Higher Council of Volunteers, all those whom we heard in the Social Affairs Committee in December. You've been unanimous against you. I will also mention the last one who spoke. This afternoon, at 6 p.m., UNIZO issued a press release: "Steming over bijkluswet straks in de Kamer. UNIZO Council: we are going to the Constitutional Court." If the text is voted, UNIZO will go to the Constitutional Court, in particular to challenge the unfair competition that you will introduce through this text. Mr Van Quickenborne, congratulations! You can be very proud! I continue to quote this UNIZO communiqué. "Everything points out that the Chamber of Representatives will adopt the law on non-taxable work this afternoon without any modification, after a delay." "Incomprehensible and irresponsible," repeats Danny Van Assche, deputy director of UNIZO. "We are making every effort, as announced, to effectively go to the Constitutional Court when the law is passed." I'll spare you the rest. Mr Van Quickenborne, I do not think that UNIZO can be suspected of being a nerd, conservatist, not paying attention to the development of economic activity. I do not think that the Union of Middle Classes, any trade union or the National Labour Council can be more so. This text brings together all the characteristics of the action of this brutal government, which does not respect the social consultation or the cooperation of the other entities, with great pride. Mr Van Quickenborne, the more you are explained by making arguments that you are mistaken and the more you think you are right. Congratulations! We're dealing here with bad texts. The Council of State says so, in particular because they have not been the subject of consultation with the regions that will be affected. I am thinking, among other things, of the associative aspect. These are adventurous texts. Oh, my God. It will be the following who will pay the bill. This must appeal to some groups of this majority, perhaps less to others, but they do not have the strength to express themselves and stop the train in motion. These are destructive texts, destructive of employment, of the associative life, destructive of our social security system, with some form of disunity within the majority, even if, at the end, we know who is right and who is lying down, in this case the CD&V and the MR. Mr Clarinval is no longer here to hear me, but I do not think that he is objectively and deeply proud of this text. I would like to reiterate that there is certainly something to be done to regularize the situation in the sports sector and in the arts sector. These are specific sectors with a fairly heavy form of volunteerism that requires the presence, several times a week, of qualified personnel (sports coaches, people with artistic talent, choir leaders, directors). At present, labour law and subsidies granted to these sectors do not allow them to pay properly. As Mr Clarinval said, there is a specifically identified grey area, including the federations representing these sectors, and an explicit request on this subject that could have been met. But the appetite came by eating and, as we have told you, dear members of the majority, it was a bad idea to have extended to so many sectors and to pure economic activity this possibility of earning a monthly salary not subject to payment of social contributions or to payment of taxes. Mr Van Quickenborne, reforms are like debts, there are good and bad. Reform is not good because it is a reform. Each must be able to be analyzed. Progress is to move forward, not to bring us back to the 19th century where there was no social security system and where everyone was free to do what he wanted, but in the event of an accident, free to find themselves without resources. There were those who had and could get out of it and the others who could die in the ditch. It seems to be the model you want to recreate, a model from before Bismarck, from before Beveridge. It's your company model, Mr. Van Quickenborne. Excuse us, it's not ours! Excuse us for defending a strong social security system, a wage-earning system, where wages are paid to workers during their careers, where there are social contributions. These can be reduced tomorrow and alternative funding for social security can be provided to facilitate employment creation, but solidarity between healthy workers and pensioners, those with a health accident, and workers' accidents can be organised. You did not answer the fundamental question. What are people doing who are going to work in addition to their job or who are pensioners and who are victims of an accident in this context? You bring things to different sectors and workers that they haven't asked for. Sectors told us: "We don't want that. We don't want deregulation." Three sectors were widely cited, including the collaborative economy sector, which we consider to be of interest as ecologists. I repeat this in the absence of my excellent colleague, Gilles Vanden Burre, we must help the collaborative economy develop. This, of course, must not be done under any condition, but with forms of regulation and contributions. Any company that realizes profits pays contributions on its profits. It's corporate tax. If there is an exchange of goods and a realization of surplus value, there is payment of VAT. Perhaps it must be in forms adapted to the collaborative economy. A beginning of the tax and regulatory system had been put in place. Part of it is swept away by this new legislation, and it does not seem wise or relevant to us. As far as the voluntary sector is concerned, he told us very clearly: "Ok for sport and culture. There are needs but let us continue to develop our volunteer activities without this system! You will question a fragile balance." You have heard it for a specific sector: youth movements at Flemish level. Bravo for your listening, but why, when other sectors tell you that they do not want this system, you do not incorporate the same principles of exception into your text? Secondly, there is this famous service between neighbours – and this is the reason for the anger of UNIZO in very harsh terms as well as of the Union of the Middle Classes – which de facto creates a situation of unfair competition between comparable economic actors: some paying contributions, others having the possibility to receive a monthly income of 500 euros without contribution. And it is not the few beacons that you have planned that will prevent a gardener, an IT specialist or some other independent or SME representative from meeting up against the same market, a single tender, in a situation of unfair competition against someone who will not have to comply with the same rules. What is, Madam Minister, the budgetary impact of your measure in terms of payment of social contributions, taxes, in terms of social rights? How many jobs will be degraded or lost as a result of this unfair competition, knowing that bad jobs are chasing the right ones? What protection will the workers concerned have? Mr Van Quickenborne, Mr Clarinval, I have heard your explanation that the people concerned already have social rights. I repeat that when you work and pay contributions, you have additional social rights, which are involved both in the calculation of the pension and in the event of illness. Faced with so many defects that have been developed over long months and over this long afternoon, it is not surprising that there are many reactions and procedures. There is, of course, what has happened in this Parliament. I remember, around 20 December, having pointed out that it was not reasonable to want to vote before 31 December on the so-called "economic recovery" project, which contained this document. We have indeed used the possibilities given us by the Rules of the House to have a substantive debate, called for hearings. In view of the fact that they brought many questions and called for the separation of texts, you nevertheless wanted to continue to move forward. There was a conflict of interest procedure. I think that this reaction is legitimate and at the height of the emotions of the various actors. And contrary to what you are trying to make believe, Mr Van Quickenborne, I think that the procedure in conflict of interest, even if it were the fourth, led to an interesting debate between the representatives of the Parliament of COCOF, who had come with arguments and amendments, and the representatives of the Committee on Social Affairs, and could have led to an improvement of the text, to a fundamental questioning of the text, if simply there had been some listening. But the dialogue between the federal state and the federated entities is not of interest to some members of the majority, as we know. You had blindly decided to continue, no matter what the cost, even the cost of an unhappiness with UNIZO, because you had your trophy. What you had won in Tomorrowland on the line, at the very end of the negotiations, you obviously didn't want to let go, even if you realized it was a mistake. It's a bad-too-boutism. Until the end, we'll try to convince you to change course. We have indeed tabled some 20 very good amendments, Mr Cheron, and I have no doubt that the other opposition colleagues...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u182	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u183	You speak as a lawyer, a legal historian! I have no doubt that the amendments tabled by the other opposition colleagues are just as good. We have submitted them to the Council of State, which has largely validated them from a legal point of view, subject to the short period of time which the President had granted them. Politics is our job, they're legal. The Council of State has done its job. Where he made remarks, we tried to meet them by amending our amendments. I will quickly introduce to you some of the amendments that we have tabled and that we want to defend. As I said, we believe that this mechanism should be limited to sports and cultural activities. The Council of State is asking us about the reasons for limiting these two sectors. They have specific characteristics that are not encountered in other sectors of society. This is the semi-professional nature of the players, whether they are sports coaches or cultural operators. It is a form of permanence during the basketball, football or handball season, and the necessary presence, including the weekend, during the games, of these players. The volume of hours worked justifies a slightly more substantial defraying. The confederations concerned, such as the Confederation of Employers of the Sociocultural and Sports Sector in the French Community, which brings together all sociocultural and sporting operators, say that this is justified for the sports sector, but not for the others. That's an opinion that I think is allowed. This confederation is a recognized employers' organisation within the framework of the Joint Sociocultural Committee 329. Beyond the substance, it is therefore entirely justified, in law, to reserve this system to these actors. If you really want to allow a form of service between neighbours – I told you our scepticism and criticism of the deregulation of employment and the risk of unfair competition –, reserve it to particular sectors in which there is no form of competition, for example sports courses, private lessons, caring for animals, but not gardening, not an electrician or computerist function. These latter sectors are organised and self-employed and SMEs work there. The third amendment I am presenting for the example is the one on personal assistance. There is a real concern in the social and health sector for a form of competition, which, in addition to being unfair, is problematic as regards the quality of intervention at the service of the fragile persons concerned. There is ethics to respect, there is basic training to have. There is no improvisation of caregiving, acting in a nursing home or a nursing home. A form of social dialogue must then be observed in the joint committee concerned or in the non-market enterprise concerned. We made the effort to try to improve this bad project. It could have been said that it is untenable, it is indeed not far from it. Mr Clarinval, it would have been wise to test it in two sectors and possibly extend it. You're doing the opposite here. You have accepted a very broad approach as part of an internal majority negotiation and you are planning to assess it in a year's time. In a year's time, it will be the elections, and I fear that when we see huge damage, it will be too late. Making black work legal, organising unfair competition between workers against self-employed and SMEs, definanceing the state, definanceing social security, reducing workers' social rights and their protection, making them more flexible, that's all but our political project. That is why, since December, we have been contesting and fighting this project with the latest energy. And we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-05-54-plenair-ip237x.u184	Colleagues, as announced, we are going to suspend the sitting. We'll take it back at 8:00. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 5 July 2018 at 8 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, July 5, 2018 at 20.00 a.m.
