ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u2	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Massin and Mr Clarinval, Mrs Becq and Mr Van Quickenborne. I shall first give the floor to Mr Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the afternoon there is little room for this debate! It is my responsibility to present to you the report on Part I of the first part of the report of our work. The report we are discussing today is the result of 16 months of work. The Commission's initial term of office of three months has been extended five times. The Committee of Inquiry was responsible for clarifying the manner in which Messrs. Chodiev and Ibraguimov acquired Belgian nationality, on the circumstances of the adoption of the law extending the scope of the criminal transaction and, finally, on its effective application to two specific cases. The commission worked on these three distinct aspects both at the level of the hearings – 177 witnesses were heard – and at the drafting of its report. Our colleague Francis Delperée has written introductory remarks that relate to all three strands. Among the points thus discussed are the perspective of the various aspects in a space-time context, the distinction between the task falling within the competence of the commission in relation to that relating to justice, the role of the press, the collegiality of the work, the reference to a new phenomenon within the framework of the commissions of inquiry, black public relations. I come to the first part of the report, namely the way in which MM. Chodiev and Ibraguimov obtained Belgian citizenship more than 20 years ago. Since Mr Chodiev had obtained Belgian nationality through naturalization and Mr Ibraguimov through a procedure for declaration of nationality made before the registrar, the report reproduced the legislation applicable at the time to these two procedures. With regard to the naturalization procedure, the Chamber was to receive advice from external bodies, namely the Office of Foreigners, the State Security, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the local police. As far as Mr Chodiev's case is concerned, the committee has found various shortcomings. First, information in the possession of the State Security Service was not transmitted, although it could have negatively affected the naturalization process. Mr. Rapaille finds it surprising that the State Security indicated to the Chamber that it had nothing to report. To justify this, various explanations have been given by some witnesses: the information considered not important enough to be communicated, or even a bad spelling of the name. Secondly, the Nivelles Prosecutor's Office did not seek to determine whether Mr. Chodiev was involved in a judicial case outside his district, which was indeed the case. The explanation given is that there was no data bank at the time. It was therefore on the basis of incomplete or erroneous information that the Chamber granted naturalization to Mr. Chodiev. The commission also examined two contradictory records of the Waterloo police that had surfaced a few years after Mr. Chodiev's naturalization. The committee asked the Standing Committee (Committee P) to investigate the matter. This investigation questioned the authenticity of these minutes. Finally, the committee considered the letter sent by Mr Kubla to Mr Eerdekens. The commission learned, on the one hand, that this type of mail was common at the time. On the other hand, the four opinions required to obtain naturalization were favourable and, according to the case law of the Naturalizations Commission at the time, naturalization was granted ex officio. The Naturalization Service had already issued a favourable opinion when Mr. Kubla's mail was sent. The Commission therefore concluded that this letter could not have had any influence on the outcome of the case. As far as Mr Ibraguimov is concerned, he initially tried to obtain a naturalisation which failed. This naturalization was refused because the Nivelles Public Prosecutor's Office, alerted by the Chamber's services to the existence of a judicial investigation against Mr. Ibraguimov, as well as the Foreigners' Office, had rendered a negative opinion. The commission found that the State Security again issued a "Nothing to report" opinion, whereas some time earlier it informed the Foreigners' Office of a link between Mr. Ibraguimov and the Russian mafia. Secondly, Mr. Ibraguimov will nevertheless obtain Belgian nationality through a procedure of declaration of nationality made before the registrar. In this procedure, the commune acts as a mailbox. If the conditions were met, she would send the file to the prosecutor's office, who would give her opinion within the month. She also sent the file to the State Security and the Foreign Office. Otherwise, nationality was acquired. Two deficiencies were noted in the processing of this file. On the one hand, the Nivelles Public Prosecutor's Office does not become aware of the existence of judicial records in another district – there is no data bank at the time – but does not make any connection with the negative opinion rendered some time previously in the context of Mr. Ibraguimov's attempt to naturalize – the explanation given is a spelling discrepancy in the name and under-staff of magistrates. On the other hand, the negative opinion of the Sûreté de l'Etat reached the Nivelles Public Prosecutor's Office out of time. The report also takes up the links between Messrs. Chodiev, Ibraguimov and Machkevitch with Tractebel and the judicial files involving them from 1996. The analysis of this strand I led, first, to specific recommendations for the naturalisation procedure: to include in an index all the documents and interventions relating to a naturalization file; to the Federal Ethics Commission consider the advisability of giving an opinion on the rules to be observed in the processing of these personal files; to define, in the head of the Chamber, the role which each of these bodies is required to fulfil in the naturalization procedure; to give the Naturalization Commission and the services assisting it in its tasks, depending on the number of cases to be processed each year, the human and material means to enable them to carry out their tasks. Second, this analysis resulted in a recommendation to create a Security Carrefour Bank to better anchor access to all information. The committee advocates parliamentary scrutiny of the use of information by the Banque-Carrefour Sécurité. Thirdly, the Committee of Inquiry recommends that the information provided by the State Security in the context of the procedures for acquiring nationality should be as fully substantiated as possible. Fourthly, the Committee of Inquiry recommends that the sharing and access to information between prosecutors be optimised so as to ensure that the deadlines for the transmission of information are respected and that the identity of the applicants can be properly identified. Finally, it recommends that the judicial authorities be provided with sufficient information technology resources for the effective management of a well-functioning database. Before closing the first part of the report, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Parliament's services for the excellent work that has been done: the two secretaries of the committee, the translators, the various services that have been heavily involved, and our colleagues in parliamentary groups who have worked hard for a year and a half on this issue, which has caused a lot of ink to flow. Mr President, this concludes the report on Part I.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has become a thick report. We've been together a long time. I'll go over the hatch II with you. We won't ride through the report, it'll be more like walking. Liège II concerns the establishment of the law laying down various provisions on the amicable settlement of criminal matters. A first element of the findings was the legal framework that existed for Article 216a. The friendly settlement wasn't new, it already existed. Article 216a was introduced in 1984, with penalties of less than three years changed into penalties of up to five years. In 1994 there was the law on the lapse of criminal proceedings for the payment of a sum of money. A number of modalities and facilitations were introduced around this friendly settlement. Even then, there were several ideas for this extended friendly settlement. We had the Justice Dialogues of then MP Erdman. At Mrs Onkelinx's request, a conference was held where these ideas also emerged. There were discussions in the framework of the Franchimont Act where, among other things, Liégeois called for a thorough evaluation of the amicable settlement. There were the election programmes, the Justice Policy Plan and so on. So there were several times when that friendly settlement was effectively addressed. The idea of an extended friendly settlement was already very clear at that time. On the other hand, there was the problem of seizure, including in the diamond sector. This sector then went to the governor of Antwerp, the mayor of Antwerp and the various party chairmen. They asked very clearly to support them. They themselves said that one political party, you find that back on page 85, number 284, was already a bit more accommodating than the other to defend their interests. The AWDC calls on Axel Haelterman and Mr Verstraeten. They are working together on the idea of a prosecution-ending fine. They are also preparing a draft memorandum to support this sector and take action in the context of the project. This leads to questions being asked from the AWDC, proposals being made and to all political parties. The AWDC proposes to Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Renaat Landuyt of sp.a a bill No. 739 for signed by all parties: CD&V, N-VA, Open Vld, cdH, SP.A-Spirit, MR, not the PS according to the AWDC. Other parties support this proposal. Just so we're clear, the seizure proposal never becomes law. We have devoted a large part of our report to it. The District Attorney General's Office and the College of Attorneys were not in favour of that proposal. As a result, the then Minister of Justice also said: "We must pay attention to what we are doing with this, because he did not want to go against the prosecutor and the judiciary with which he had to work. The Public Prosecutor's Office was then prepared to engage in a constructive dialogue with representatives of the economic sectors who suffer from the herd per equivalent as the Attorney General calls it. The VBO is also involved. It was felt that, if one wanted to have an arrangement on the attachment, this could be of interest not only to the diamond sector but to the whole sector. It was considered important to create a basis for this. Then there will indeed be consultation with the public prosecutor, with the COIV, a department of seizure, with the investigators and with the police federations. They're meeting. That meeting is being discussed openly in this House, following a question by Mr Schofs, who was then a Member of Parliament. It was also said openly that there were three levels of consultation, at local level in Antwerp, at federal level consultation with the Attorney General, and in COIV there was also a proposal on attachment and execution. They were lyrics that everyone knew were difficult for the public and that they might never become law. It was also very clearly stated by the public prosecutor that the sector should only make new and alternative proposals if they wanted to get out. In the section on the real preparation of the preliminary draft for extended friendly settlement, from page 106 in our bundle, you will find a representation of the local consultation in Antwerp that has taken place several times. The public prosecutor says quite explicitly that it is in favour of an extended friendly settlement and that there is no discussion of individual dossiers. The public prosecutor says that the ball is in the camp of the diamond and that it is not theirs: they must say what they accept or what they do not accept. However, they have also received a drama, a text by Professor Verstraeten, among others, in which they say what the main lines are that also correspond to the public prosecutor's view. The public prosecutor himself states quite explicitly that the scope of the texts they have goes beyond what the diamond sector would like. They themselves are very much in favour of the friendly settlement. They have been fond of this idea for a long time, they regularly mention it. It then effectively prepares and draws up a bill which then goes to the Chamber, but that concerns the bill on attachment. There are discussions in Antwerp on the extended friendly settlement. There is a friendly settlement working group of the College that deals with the fight against tax fraud. That friendly settlement working group is also working on texts and a vision on the extended friendly settlement. A college against tax fraud meets with all departments under the authority of the minister and also effectively produces texts on the extended friendly settlement. A preliminary draft action plan is being drawn up and it also states that such an extended friendly settlement must be worked out. A project leader will be appointed and Attorney General De Wolf will lead the further implementation in a working group, again to try to come up with a text for the friendly settlement. A text will also be drawn up in this group. It is said that the Public Prosecutor General and the Expertise Network, led by Attorney General Liégeois, should be kept informed. The text drawn up by Verstraeten at the time is also sent to that group. It is therefore clear that there are three texts circulating on this friendly settlement: a basic text by Professor Verstraeten, a text submitted to the working group, a text of the criminal justice expertise network and a text on which work was carried out in the Antwerp local consultation. I shall now step out of my role as rapporteur. I enjoyed listening to how it was said from different angles that they were all partly author of that text. Everyone wanted to claim ownership at some moments, at other times they didn't. I couldn't help noticing that this was also an element. I think we would go a little too far to say that there was only one text. That's how it turned out to me in the hearings. There were also work within the criminal justice expertise network, in which the College of PGs also discussed this. This network of expertise also writes texts about this and discusses it further. Professor Verstraeten had asked to be present at that meeting. The parish general doesn't think that's a problem. Those were transparent meetings. By the way, Professor Verstraeten reports to the AWDC on the discussions in that College of PGs and says that the text that the network itself produced was ultimately more favourable than the text he had proposed. That's what I meant by saying that there wasn't one text, but that there were different versions and different visions. The decisions were finally made by them five alone. This is clearly explained by the expertise network. There will then be work at government level, where the texts of the Public Prosecutor General will be sent to the government during the period from March to May 2009. Mrs Penne was then a cabinet employee. There are several authors of this story, Verstraeten repeated that that text was not his, because it was different and extended further. This is discussed in July by the chiefs of the cabinet in an IKW. They wanted to make a draft law, but there was opposition from the PS, who felt that this should be discussed at parliamentary level. Then that text was discussed again in 2010 as a result of the budget layout, and then it was there in 2009. In order to take you on board in that spirit of time, there was parallel the Parliamentary Committee on Fiscal Fraud, which also spoke of the possibility of an amicable settlement, but where it was also very clearly argued for a tax banking secret. We then knew the outgoing government in 2010, 2011, for which I am pleased to refer you to our coverage from page 134 et seq. During the same period there were several contacts and initiatives of the AWDC. Apparently, the HSBC file had also been opened there. Then a bill of amicable settlement is handed over to Mr Jambon and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. He suggested that this might be linked to banking secrecy. He also contacted MR, but it never became clear who was in contact with him at the time. People were looking for contacts everywhere. In parallel during that period there were also the interventions of Armand De Decker and Mrs Degoul. This concerns the period from January to February 2011. There were two speeches by Mr De Decker at the time. On 18 February there was in the morning in the council room a reference of the file of Chodiev and associates to the correction court. It is expressly stated that Mr De Decker was then in toga with Attorney De Wolf asking what the intentions were, how this case would be referred and what would happen to the case. However, he is not listed in any court document as an attorney to these people. It is also during that period that Justice Minister Stefaan De Clerck was visited by Mr De Decker who addressed him in the margins of a plenary session and asked to see him. Stefaan De Clerck makes it very clear that Mr De Decker did not mention anywhere in that question that it was in one way or another about an individual case. Afterwards, visits were made to the cabinet staff. I will come back to that later. I come to the legislative proposals and the whole debate on banking secrecy. On the one hand, there was the file on the friendly file that ran until 2009. On the other hand, there was also the discussion on draft laws on banking secrecy between November 2010 and February 2011. There were several proposals ready for discussion, but not everyone wanted to go in the same direction as regards banking secrecy. However, the discussion was opened, knowing that this had to be continued. Following these discussions, the MR asked the question of how to proceed. At that time, the Reynders cabinet suggested that this should go hand in hand with the file on the friendly settlement: they were dossiers that had to progress simultaneously. There have been several meetings. I will keep this document brief within the MR: one time it is important that bank secrecy is dealt with together with the friendly settlement, the other time it is said that it should not be done together. There have been several contacts between CD&V, MR and other parties to see how to prepare a bill, but it is not possible to decide whether or not to go to a joint proposal. Eventually, a joint text will be created by the MR and the Open VLD that is being prepared to submit. During the period during which the discussion of banking secrecy was under way, there was also external pressure on our country to prevent Belgium from being blacklisted for tax havens. The pressure on the government was therefore strong to do something about this effectively and to make progress in order to avoid Belgium becoming a black or grey list. Then there is the stage at which the banking secrecy dossier is included in the draft law on various provisions. This has also been the subject of various discussions, including the possible linking of the amicable settlement to it. The MR wanted very clearly not only to score on banking secrecy, but also to put forward other dossiers, in particular the friendly settlement, a file on which in the past there was not much discussion between the different parties. There are various discussions that ultimately lead to a notification within the government, asking Parliament to find a solution. It is also for this purpose that the link is made between the friendly settlement and banking secrecy, at the request of the MR. This was requested by the MR, but several parties said that they actually found that to be logical. In the past this has been discussed and discussed from time to time. The fact that this happens in a formal way makes sense. A notification will then follow on 3 February 2011 in which the government is proposed to the competent Chambers' Committee to seek a joint and final solution to the problem of tax banking secrecy and to extend an arrangement of friendly settlement to deal with fraud in criminal matters. The result is that the Chamber is starting up at the request of the government and that working groups are being set up under the leadership of the Prime Minister's staff who is pulling it all together. I would also recommend the reading of this. It is interesting to read that one day a contact is asked by one party with the other party and then by another party with each other. We are therefore trying to reach a joint proposal by mutual agreement, whereby the partners exchange views. There is talk of alternative majorities to come up with a text by Open Vld-MR, about which one would like to talk. After the suspension of the sitting in which, if I understood correctly, it was stated that if we did not reach a solution now, we would not be able to reach a text. That text consisted of banking secrecy and an amicable settlement, such as the text previously drafted by the parish general, which had come to the government. That text was part of the whole. That was then the text that was tabled in the Chamber during the discussion of the draft various provisions in committee which at that time dealt with banking secrecy in order to discuss and vote on the amendment. This was, of course, criticised by the opposition who felt that this could not be dealt with in current cases. In current cases, however, it was also a story in which partners were already switched for short moments. So there was that discussion. Afterwards, this draft will come to the Senate, which will discuss it, but not in the Justice Committee. It is simply referred to from the services. The Senate doesn't want this to go too fast, stands out and asks for a hearing. Raf Verstraeten is also invited to that hearing, which did not mention that he acted as counsel of the AWDC and was funded by it. Errors were found during that hearing. Then there was the debate on whether an amendment should be drawn up. There has been a lot of discussion about whether or not to amend that text. In the end, it was decided not to amend the text in order not to delay the design of various provisions. If that text were amended, it would have to be discussed again in the Chamber, otherwise it would have to enter into force immediately. It was proposed to make a new proposal, which would be dealt with at the same time. When the draft is discussed in the Senate itself about the friendly settlement and banking secrecy, there is still discussion there and meetings are suspended to ensure that the repair law would come soon and that these laws could be passed together in the Senate. That's what happened in the end. The repair law then went back to the Chamber afterwards. The Court has also been asked for hearings and for the opinion of the Council of State. That question was rejected because they wanted to move forward and because there was a law that had to be repaired. At that time, no opinion from the Council of State was allowed. However, as you know, it is possible to ask for it if there are sufficient votes in this Chamber. That's what happened. There was a mistake. Well, that came back to me. The law was finally adopted on 30 June so that it could enter into force on 11 August. That is the story of the creation of the law on amicable settlement. There was an initial period until 2009, where the friendly settlement took place, with a lot of discussions, including the public prosecutor's office. In the second stage, the government of current cases linked banking secrecy to the draft amicable settlement, due to external pressure, and put it into the law on various provisions, which was thus adopted. I also had to report on hatch III.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u5	There are apparently traffic problems in Brussels. Mr Massin is on his way and Mr Van Quickenborne is here. Mrs Becq, I do not know what you have agreed to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u6	I had to say that there was a third part, namely the application of the law. Mr Massin is welcome to do so, but I think he only wanted to report on a part of it. When the first version of the law had been passed, without the repair law, there was the commitment not to allow the law to apply. They were going to ask the public prosecutor. The two parquets-general of Brussels and Antwerp have drawn up guidelines on this subject, calling initially for calm, but asking them to know when there were important elements which it was felt should be possible to apply. Those discussions have been held within the public prosecutor's office. After that and in parallel, there have been the friendly solutions, which Mr Massin will certainly tell you about. I can recommend reading.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u7	As announced, Mr. Massin is on his way. In the meantime, Mr Van Quickenborne has arrived. He's a reporter, and I'm happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked to be a reporter from section II, in particular for statements 1 to 4. I'll bring that for you, too. As you know, Liège II deals with the implementation of the law on the extended friendly settlement. The friendly settlement system is not new in our legal system. The first friendly settlement system was introduced in 1935 into the Code of Criminal Procedure. Article 216a of the Code of Criminal Procedure was last amended by the Law of 10 February 1994. Under this legislation, an amicable settlement was not possible from the moment a criminal action was brought, for example following an action for judicial review or direct subpoena before the police or the correctional court. As far as penalties are concerned, the condition was that the offence should not be punishable by a penalty higher than a fine or a five-year sentence or both. The five-year limit was a limit in abstracto, which means that the limit laid down in the legal provision had to be considered. Despite the fact that it took until 2011 after the 1994 legislative amendment to revise the friendly settlement regime, the settlement was discussed in detail in Parliament between 2004 and 2007, in the context of the reform of criminal proceedings, the so-called "Great Franchimont" bill. However, the existing Article 216a on the amicable settlement was adopted without amendment in the draft law on which it never came to a vote in the Chamber, due to the dissolution of Parliament, while the Rule had been approved unchanged in the Senate. During the hearings on the bill mentioned, the friendly settlement is mentioned twice, according to the report. Mr Yves Liégeois mentioned the friendly settlement as an example of the many legal provisions incorporated into the draft from existing legislation, without evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u9	During that hearing, Mr Yves Liégeois submitted a note. That note stated the following on the amicable settlement and mediation in criminal matters. I quote: 'The amicable settlement and mediation in criminal matters, Articles 34 and 35 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, restore the existing arrangements without taking into account or taking into account the opinions of, inter alia, the Court of Cassation and the Council of State, which show that the Public Prosecutor should have wider powers to conclude a settlement'. "This subject," he continues, "has been sufficiently addressed during the discussions." "At least," says Liégeois, "there is still a need to consider in depth whether there should be a form of settlement or settlement after a judicial inquiry has been opened to the stage of the settlement of justice before the investigating courts." End of quote. In the CD&V election program, and I'm not making propaganda here, before the federal elections of June 10, 2007, the following can be read. I quote: "CD&V also wants to investigate whether a legal basis is possible for the negotiated confession for crimes causing mainly economic harm. Cooperation with the evidence or a confession can have a beneficial effect on the penalty level." So much for this piece of the CD&V colleagues' election programme. In an interview with Gazet van Antwerpen following the appointment of Mr Yves Liégeois as President of the College of Attorney General, the same statement on 29 August 2007 states: "The prosecution should be given much more opportunities not to prosecute cases. The friendly settlement must be greatly extended and can be imposed at any stage of the criminal proceedings. Moreover, the public prosecutor should be able to simply forward certain social, fiscal or economic crimes to the competent administration, which will then deal with them further." "Justitie," he continues, "must become more human, more just and simpler at every level. We should not use these heavy mammoth procedures to deal with small facts', I quote him 'of the common man'. A procedure applied must be proportionate to the nature of the legal proceedings to which it is applied." So much for that interview, or that part of the interview in the authoritative newspaper Gazette of Antwerp. Fascinating reading for readers. The reason for the change in the law of the Antwerp World Diamond Centre (AWDC) were several large seizures of diamonds at Antwerp diamondaires in the period 2005-2007. Mr Freddy Hanard, who came to testify before our committee, was CEO of AWDC from May 2006 to May 2010. He explained that there were two reasons for this: first and foremost the seizures and also the endless procedures, which hung the business world like a sword of Damocles over its head.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u10	Chairperson: Siegfried Bracke, Chair. Mr Peter Van Calster, the then reference magistraat for the diamond fraud files at the Antwerp parquet, referred to the Monstrey file with regard to seizures. In his hearing, he also referred to another large diamond shop, Omega Diamonds. The AWDC appealed to two lawyers, Axel Haelterman and Raf Verstraeten. Those lawyers systematically billed for this and reported intensively to the AWDC. The AWDC said: "The file found shows that there were many contacts and that intensive reports were made in the years 2007, 2008 and 2009. At the end of 2010, this report flared up, and then completely fell silent." Like other interest groups, the AWDC drew up a draft memorandum for the government negotiations. The memorandum, which dates back to 7 June 2007, states that "The sector supports two proposals aimed at improving the viability of businesses." The first proposal concerns clear procedural arrangements for seizures within companies. The second proposal concerns the prosecution-ending fine. It's, in short, about the friendly settlement. Mr Raf Verstraeten, attorney, worked out the idea of the prosecution-ending fine for the AWDC. On 5 September, Mr Axel Haelterman reported on the meeting with a CD&V delegation, which was then composed of the then Minister of Justice Tony Van Parys, Senator Hugo Vandenberghe, known to you all, and judicial staff of the study service. Mr Philip Claes of the AWDC replied in an e-mail dated 30 August 2007 to Mr Haelterman and Mr Verstraeten: "You" who had two lawyers "undoubtedly already know that Yves Liégeois, Antwerp's Attorney General, will be in charge of the College of Attorneys General from 1 September 2007." Again in the interview with Gazet van Antwerpen, apparently a memorable interview, he mentioned, among other things, a friendly settlement that should be possible at any stage of the proceedings. Then Mr Claes concluded: "Of course this fits in with our story and our strategy." According to certain witnesses in our committee, both the amicable settlement and the seizure proposal, which were moved forward by the AWDC, had the same objective, namely to limit and/or prevent seizures. Mr Hanard spoke in committee about a problem and possible solutions. He said: "We sought a solution. The law on business goods was probably the easiest way to find a solution, but the extended friendly settlement subsequently came as another possible solution." On 21 January 2008, Mr Claes of the AWDC delivered a detailed proposal on seizures to Mr Servais Verherstraeten and to former colleague Renaat Landuyt, who is now a member of the Flemish Parliament. Mr Verherstraeten converted the text received in the form of the legislative proposal on various measures relating to the seizure of corporate property. This was delivered to the legislative secretariat of our Chamber on 24 January 2008. This bill was given the number 739. The bill was then submitted, signed by the following parties: CD&V, N-VA, Open Vld, cdH, sp.a, Spirit and MR. The only signature that was missing was the important signature of the PS, but I'll come back to that later. The sp.a and the other colleagues have co-signed. The purpose of this legislative proposal was to avoid as much as possible a mere seizure: only in some particularly serious cases or with the consent of the authorised person with a sound experience in the business world. Before Parliament approves this bill No. 739 was given, on 28 January 2008 the Head of the Cabinet of the Minister of Justice asked for urgent advice on this bill to the College of Attorneys General and to the Central Commission for the Confiscation and the Declaration, the widely known COIV. On 21 February 2008, the College of Attorney General and the COIV issued a joint opinion. They delivered this to the Head of the Cabinet of the Minister of Justice on the same day. The joint opinion is negative. It is stated that the proposed legislation is not necessary and that the legislative proposal is contrary to the higher legal standards, in particular the Constitution and the ECHR, and that there is a damaging impact on the proper administration of justice in criminal matters. However, the Public Prosecutor is prepared to engage in a constructive dialogue with the representatives of the economic sectors affected by the herd per equivalent. Following that opinion, consultations will be held with different actors, and now it will start on 14 March 2008. Invited are the following bodies and persons: the College of Attorneys-General, the COIV, the District Court of Antwerp, the Association of Research Judges, the Federal Police, the AWDC, the Federation of Belgian Diamond Fairs, Mr Haelterman, the VBO, UNIZO and the Cabinet of the Minister of Justice. So many people at such a meeting. Mr Liégeois stated that at this meeting of 14 March 2008, all interested parties expressed their views on the legislative proposal. This showed that the views of the public prosecutors and investigators were directly opposed to those of the diamond sector, the VBO and UNIZO. The Minister himself, Mr Vandeurzen, also commented on the so-called four-eyed principle, in particular the controller over the investigating judge. He was right to point out that this is not the case when the investigating judge holds someone, because even then a investigating judge is alone. So he asked for further consultation between the parquet and the diamond sector. On the decision to organise further consultations between the public prosecutor and the diamond sector following the meeting on 14 March, Mr Vandeurzen said: "The parquet general wants to consult with the sector and appoints it, and there is a meeting, and everyone sits there, and we conclude an agreement to organise the consultation, and Mrs Penne will follow that, as far as we are concerned. It was reported after that that it would happen. It has been agreed, there has been talk of these working groups, that we would wait for the report of those working groups. This has been done, all of which have been done, with all possible contradiction in the debate in Parliament." Mr Liégeois stated on the further discussion between the diamond sector and the public prosecutor that "sulks during the discussion with the Minister of Justice was what he proposed. We have accepted to do so in order to be able to make at least a reasonable counter-proposal." He also said: "The presence of the sector is absolutely not what we want. I shall put it another way: I do not think that the presence of the sector is normal, but in the circumstances it was the result of a consultation with the Minister. It stated that there should be consultation with the sectors." End of the quote from what Mr Liégeois said in our committee. In the context of this local consultation, no agreement was reached on the legislative proposal No. 739. That proposal was never discussed in the Chamber of Representatives. It was finally declared void on 7 May 2010 at the time of the dissolution of the Chambers. The bill never became law and has never been resubmitted to my knowledge. I shall then come to the preliminary draft for the extended friendly settlement, the other piste provided. Following the meeting of 14 March 2008, a local consultation platform was established in Antwerp at the request of the Minister of Justice. This local consultation platform met on 11 April, 18 June and 10 September 2008. Mr Raf Verstraeten attended each of the three meetings and invoicing to the AWDC. At the meeting of 11 April 2008, Mr Flor De Mond and Mr Christiaan Nys of the parquet and the parquet general of Antwerp stressed that they were in favour of extending the friendly settlement. Mrs Hildegard Penne, I quote,'looks forward with interest to the proposal of the Public Prosecutor on the extended friendly settlement, but notes that this will not be achieved in the legislative field from today to tomorrow'. The prosecution concludes the meeting with the remark that the ball is in the camp of the sector concerned. They are expected by the prosecution to indicate whether or not they accept the idea of an extended friendly settlement in principle. A second meeting was held on 18 June 2008. At this second local consultation, the diamond sector reports that it is in favour of an extended friendly settlement. Mr Raf Verstraeten was instructed to draw up a text. One month later, on 18 July 2008, Mr Philip Claes of the AWDC provided a first draft of the text on the extension of the friendly settlement arrangements. The document is entitled "accelerated and simplified handling" and has been signed by Mr Raf Verstraeten. Mr Raf Verstraeten is then invited to a personal consultation with the Attorney General, Yves Liégeois, with a view to a third local consultation scheduled for 10 September 2008, as mentioned above. The aim is to achieve a punctual effect in the technical and legal field. This bilateral consultation between Liégeois and Verstraeten will take place on 4 August 2008. In our committee of inquiry, Mr Liégeois adds that, in his view, Mr Raf Verstraeten's note has an academic content, I can still hear him say it, and a general scope which goes far beyond the specific problems of the diamond sector. I quote what Mr Liégeois said with us. On 8 September, before that third and final meeting, Mr Christiaan Nys informed the financial and fiscal section of the Antwerp parquet. The internal report states: "Mr Christiaan Nys informs the Assembly that the proposal to facilitate friendly settlements was discussed by the representatives of the diamond sector and their counsellors lobbyists, on the one hand, and the representatives of the Antwerp Magistrate, on the other. The diamond industry insists on an arrangement and is apparently willing to use its impressive lobbying machine in this respect." These are the words of a magistrate. The last meeting of the local consultation platform will take place on 10 September. Mr Raf Verstraeten's note on the extended friendly settlement in criminal matters is discussed here. Mrs Penne said at her hearing: "It was agreed that as far as possible the aspirations of the investigators would be met and that this would be worked out in concrete terms by Raf Verstraeten, who would put this in a concrete legislative proposal by the end of October of the same year, 2008.' In November 2008, Mr Raf Verstraeten updated his note on the extended friendly settlement to a text in the form of a draft law. He delivered this on 18 November to Mr Axel Haelterman and Mr Philip Claes of the AWDC. Mr Raf Verstraeten explained: "Thus, as much as possible, the text was tailor-made to the political debate, especially in the hope that the policy considerations which could lead to such a change would be sufficiently highlighted." In addition to the local consultation platform, the extended friendly settlement also covered the meetings to which I referred and all the intermediate moments, i.e. in parallel with that within the College for the fight against tax and social fraud. The Government Agreement of 20 March 2008 provided for the establishment of such a body to combat fraud involving representatives of all the departments involved in the fight against fraud. That college would work under the authority of a ministerial committee to combat tax and social fraud. Who took part in the meetings of the College? As a representative of Attorney General Marc de le Court, it was Patrick De Wolf. Mr De Wolf was then Advocate General at the Court of Appeal in Brussels. He also served as a liaison to the policy cell of the then Secretary of State for the Coordination of Fraud Prevention, Carl Devlaem. He was appointed by the College of Attorney General for this purpose. The anti-fraud college is given the task, as is often customary, of drawing up an annual action plan. Two specific Action Plans are being drawn up, an Action Plan in 2008-2009 with 58 Action Lines and another Action Plan in 2009-2010 with 50 Action Lines. The first meeting of the College will take place on 14 May 2008. At that meeting, Secretary of State Deweel asked the members of the College to submit proposals for short- and medium-term action points by 23 May at the latest. On 28 May, in response to the State Secretary's question, a note of suggestions was sent by Mr Patrick De Wolf to the court of appeal in Brussels. Die nota bevat onder meer het volgende voorstel: "Provide the possibility to compromise in relation to fiscal criminal offences, even after the initiation of public proceedings." In voetnoot 13 van de nota wordt het volgende gestureld: "As this would be a procedural law, it would be immediately applicable, therefore also for the files currently communicated for all purposes by the investigating judge." On 3 September, the College will set out the PMOs (Program Management Office), i.e. the cluster managers, for the various action points. For the project 37, Action Line 3.11, the extended friendly settlement, the designated PMO, i.e. the person to succeed, is Patrick De Wolf. At the request of the College of 1 October 2008, Mr De Wolf reported on project 37: "An important point of attention is to know whether the transaction should be limited to tax or social infringements, or to almost all infringements. In the judicial district of Antwerp," he says, "there have already been discussions about this which may be useful for the project." In other words, he points to parallelism. On 19 November 2008, Mr Steven Limbourg, project leader of Action Line 3.11, Project 37, sent an e-mail to the participants of the Working Group stating that the next meeting of the Working Group would take place on 2 December 2008. A text by Mr Raf Verstraeten is added "on the same subject, which has served as the basis for the current drafts." That's a quote. A new e-mail from Mr Steven Limbourg to the participants of the working group will follow on 28 November 2008. The amended text will be sent by e-mail after the meeting of 4 November 2008. It is also reported that the text of the criminal justice expertise network of the College of Attorneys General is delivered earlier. It is also awaiting the draft text of Raf Verstraeten. The working group within the college will then meet one last time on 22 January 2009 in a joint meeting with the criminal justice and criminal policy expertise network of the College of Attorneys General. The College of Attorneys General discussed the subject of an extended friendly settlement in criminal matters at its meeting of 7 November 2008 and 19 February 2009. The criminal justice and criminal policy expertise network of the College of Attorneys General discussed the subject of an extended friendly settlement in criminal matters at its meetings of 18 November 2008 and 22 January 2009. On 18 November 2008, the extended friendly settlement in criminal matters will be discussed at the meeting of the criminal justice expertise network. Mr Flor De Mond, First Advocate General of the Antwerp Appeals Court, presented two proposals to amend Article 216a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which would aim to enable the wider amicable settlement to be used. The conclusion of that meeting is as follows: "The texts will be finalised taking into account the comments of the network of expertise and, inter alia, with a view to this end, after processing the already made reflection, will be transferred to the members of the network." Then there will be a meeting between Ms Penne and Mr Haelterman and Mr Raf Verstraeten at the Justice Policy Cell on 4 December 2008. Prior to that meeting, on 26 November 2008, Mr Raf Verstraeten sent Ms Penne his updated text on the extended friendly settlement and a text proposal on the amended Article 216a of the Code of Criminal Procedure by e-mail. On 5 December 2008, a feedback from the meeting of 4 December 2008 by Mr Haelterman to UNIZO and the VBO will take place. Mr Haelterman pointed out that texts were being drawn up in three different places on the wider friendly settlement. These are the Project 37 working group, the Antwerp working group and a public prosecutor's working group. According to Mr Haelterman, it was decided to combine the work of the Project 37 working group and the work of the Public Prosecutor's Working Group and to work together in a single text. In his feedback, Mr Haelterman also stated that he and Mr Verstraeten had asked to join this working group. A joint meeting of the criminal justice expertise network and of the anti-fraud college working group for the implementation of project 37 will take place on 22 January 2009. Mrs Penne and Mr Verstraeten are also present at this meeting. The next day, on 23 January, there will be a feedback from Mr Raf Verstraeten to the AWDC and to Mr Haelterman. Mr Verstraeten reported that the criminal justice expertise network had drawn up its own text proposal, which re-examined some of the points he raised. He says: 'Fundamentally there was one difference, which was even more favourable than the proposal we had worked out in the lap of the Antwerp working group'. Not only is there no right of veto granted to the investigating judge, but there is no right of investigation for a few months either. In this respect, the detailed proposal would not provide for mandatory advice from the investigating judge. Mr Verstraeten also wrote: "Furthermore, it is a matter of drafting legal texts, where Yves Liégeois's approach is one to include much more detail in the legal text." On 19 February 2009, the extended friendly settlement in criminal matters will be discussed at the meeting of the College of Attorney General. The College approves the proposal on the amendment of Article 216a. Mr Liégeois says in the Committee of Inquiry that once the expertise network has drawn up an opinion, it will go to the College of Attorneys General. He decides that the college has to decide by five. There's no one else involved. On 6 March 2009, the proposal adopted by the College of Attorneys General will be forwarded to the Minister of Justice. On 14 May 2009, Mr Flor De Mond delivered to the Minister of Justice's policy cell a "draft explanatory statement to the draft law amending Article 216a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, while the criminal proceedings against payment of a sum of money lapsed'. Christiaan Nys also contributed to this pleading. It contains an explicit reference to the local consultation in Antwerp. The text reads as follows: "It should also be stressed that the current draft is partly the result of the frequent consultations in Antwerp between members of the public prosecutor's office, representatives of the business world (the AWDC), the VBO, the investigating judge, the academic world (Raf Verstraeten and Axel Haelterman) and the regional executives of the FPS Finances. This consultation platform had grown in response to an earlier unfortunate legislative proposal 731, which I have just discussed in detail. Then I come to the work at government level, since the text of the statement has now been forwarded to the government. On the basis of the texts transmitted, a proposal for an extension of friendly settlement in criminal matters is being prepared by Mrs Penne, adviser to the cabinet of the then Minister of Justice Stefaan De Clerck. What's going on? Mrs Penne deleted all references to the consultation with the diamond sector and to the text of Mr Raf Verstraeten, which served as the basis for the legislative proposal. It also deletes the practical examples relating to the diamond sector from the explanatory memorandum of the draft law. Mrs Penne was confronted with this during our committee of inquiry. She said that she did not think the references were appropriate because the proposal had a wider scope. According to Mrs Penne, there are several authors of the bill. In her view, this is also a good thing, because it shows that it is a project that has been carried out by various bodies. Mrs Penne says that the text is a collection of documents from Mr Verstraeten's text, a draft transmitted by the Public Prosecutor and own input from the Cabinets and from the FPS Justice Department. On 1 July 2009, an Interkabinets Working Group (IKW) will be held for the first time, discussing the preliminary draft law. The report does not mention major issues of substance, which is very striking. The conclusion of the IKW is that the preliminary draft can be discussed at the meeting of the SAB, the Directors General Policy, and even at the next Council of Ministers. The report also states that this conclusion is not supported by the PS. Mrs Penne said the latter: "All parties agreed, except for Mrs Onkelinx's cabinet, that the draft should be dealt with in Parliament as part of the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the major tax fraud cases. As a result, the file was not on the table at the Council of Ministers in July 2009. The preliminary draft will be re-examined at government level in October 2009 in the context of the 2010 budget format. I will conclude by discussing how the various working groups have led to a draft which has been dealt with in the government's bosom but has never reached the level of the Council of Ministers. In addition, there was another lead, the parliamentary committee of inquiry for the large tax fraud files. On 10 April 2008, a proposal was adopted in the Chamber to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate the major tax fraud cases. Article 1 of the Act instructs the Committee of Inquiry to investigate the major financial and tax files of the past 15 years and to examine the causes of the systematic failure of those files as well as to indicate remedies for these problems. The findings and recommendations of the final report, which are almost unanimously approved by the Court, include, inter alia, the following recommendation on the amicable settlement under point 21. The Committee of Inquiry says: "A general arrangement for the amicable settlement or settlement would be introduced: the application of that arrangement would put an end to criminal proceedings in tax fraud cases. Registration of friendly solutions negotiated by the administration which exceed a certain amount in a register delivered to the Court of Auditors. This, in turn, reports annually to the Chamber of Representatives in accordance with the principles of privacy and the anonymity of taxpayers. This is in the recommendation of the parliamentary committee of inquiry for the major tax fraud cases. The report, which contains findings and recommendations, also mentions tax banking secrecy. This concludes section II with regard to the determinations 1 to 4. I understand that Mr Becq has just explained points 5 to 13 of section II. If you have listened carefully and reversed the order, then we are already past the findings of section II. If I am not mistaken, it is now up to me to report to you on the assessments and recommendations made in section II. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me now turn to the assessments and recommendations of our committee on section II. The Law of 14 April 2011 was adopted in accordance with the rules in force at that time, in particular in a bicameral procedure. This bicamerality limits the potential influence of a Member of Parliament all the more, since any initiative of his own or of her own could be neutralized in another assembly. Although a Member of Parliament can influence a decision that we hope will not be able to impose a legislative initiative on his or her own. In this respect, a majority is always required. That is obvious, that is democracy. Moreover, in theory, the Senate was able to redirect legislative initiatives of the Chamber. However, the Chamber always had the last word. Conversely and equally theoretically, the Chamber could also improve or block legislative initiatives of the Senate. However, this ability to amend texts, the capacity to amend them, was de facto very limited in the context of a draft law containing various provisions, with so many different subjects and many articles that the amendment of an article would lead to parliamentary commuting and delay for many other provisions that are sometimes urgent or on a difficult political compromise. What is more, in our parliamentary system, the ability of Members of Parliament to act individually and autonomously is de facto restricted by the agreements that the government first enters into internally. We say in general terms that it is normal for Members of Parliament or members of the government to come into contact with their electorate, with citizens, with interest groups. It is often the case that these citizens or organisations raise problems with members of parliament or government and ask them to work out a solution to the problems they face. Members of parliament or government call on the expertise of party or cabinet staff, professors, organisations, internal and external experts to develop possible solutions to the problems raised, and seek advice. It happens that individuals, interest groups or organisations present legislative changes already prepared to Members of Parliament, who, if they agree, submit them as legislative proposals. It is therefore not uncommon for these people and/or organisations to be kept informed of the evolutions in the legislative process or to inform them of the state of play of the problems they raise. Amendments or legislative texts prepared at government level are regularly submitted to the Chamber with the signature of majority members of parliament. That is the custom in this Parliament. I have been here for 19 years, and that has never been different, regardless of the composition of the majority and of the opposition. What is the origin of the concept of an extended friendly settlement? The lead times of the tax and financial judicial files were particularly long in our country. In the Committee of Inquiry, it was worded as follows: "We were confronted with huge cemeteries of files." So the Justice Department is talking about cemeteries of files. These are often complex cases which are at risk of limitation or which are likely to exceed the reasonable period of time. This was also a reason for the members of the public prosecutor's office to demand an extension of the means available to them in order to combat such facts effectively and for others to request an extension of the legislation on friendly settlement in criminal matters and to examine such texts. During the period 2006-2009, several individuals and bodies expressed their support for extending the possibilities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in order to reach a friendly settlement in criminal matters. In particular, it concerns certain political parties, members of the Public Prosecutor's Office and sector organisations. In concrete terms, reflections towards enlargement are mentioned in the 2007 CD&V Choosing Programme. There are also indications that the General Court of Antwerp, Mr Liegois, is in favour of the parliamentary discussion of the great Franchimont Act in 2006 and its findings. There is also the memorandum from the Public Prosecutor's Office and also the AWDC includes the extension in the 2007 Memorandum addressed to the political parties. In the policy paper of then Minister of Justice Jo Vandeurzen, dated 5 November 2008, we find under a separate title the extension of the possibilities for amicable settlement. There are, therefore, many areas where this is being discussed. As far as political decision-making is concerned, no entirely new legal concept has been introduced. Further work was carried out on existing legislation dating back to 1935, namely Articles 216 and 216a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, from the point of view of extending the substantive and procedural scope. The Committee of Inquiry notes that in 2008 and 2009 proposals will be drawn up in three different working groups to amend Article 216a of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It concerns the local consultation, the working group on friendly settlement and the college that I have just spoken about, together with the prosecutor's office. Our committee concludes that the demand for an extension of the friendly settlement existed within the various authorities of the prosecution. During the local consultations in Antwerp, Mr Raf Verstraeten was instructed to draw up a note on the extended friendly settlement. This note from Mr Verstraeten was also discussed during the working group on the "Minimum Settlement" in the context of the action plan. Other texts were also discussed. Most members of this working group are not aware of the fact that Mr Raf Verstraeten is taking part in the local consultation in Antwerp as counsel of the AWDC. Our committee has therefore considered that Mr Verstraeten has shown insufficient transparency. The Committee also notes that the final text, which served as the basis for the preliminary draft law, is the result of a long reflection exercise, in which several actors participated, which was finally approved and validated by the College of Attorneys General in 2009. The amendment of Article 216a by the Law of 14 April 2011 has a general scope. Its application does not refer to a sector or individual dossier. Furthermore, the King's Attorney may decide on its application. Finally, that adjustment implies a possibility, not an obligation, to make use of it. This option is in addition to the various ways of settling disputes. During the hearing in the Chamber of the Treasury and the Banking Secret Budget on 8 December 2010, Mr Haelterman suggested linking the files with banking secrecy and friendly settlement. He had already suggested this idea with the diamond sector in November 2010, so a month earlier. Mr Haelterman was invited to the Finance Committee as an expert on banking secrecy. It is unclear whether Mr Haelterman proposed this idea in Parliament either as an expert or as a counsellor for the AWDC. By not mentioning his dual capacity, he has, as a committee, shown insufficient transparency. On the basis of the hearings, the e-mails and the notes drawn up at the time by the various advisors of the political groups and the Cabinets, the Committee considers that the link on 31 January 2011 of the lifting of banking secrecy to the friendly settlement in criminal matters is a classic case of political linkage. The committee does not have any evidence that the link would have taken place with a view to an amicable settlement in a hanging specific criminal case, namely the file that was the main subject of our committee, the Patokh Chodiev file and associates. The Committee of Inquiry considers that there is no evidence that contacts between the Minister of Justice, Mr De Clerck, and Mr Armand De Decker, and between Mr De Decker and the two members of the cabinet of the Minister of Justice, would have influenced the legislative process. The examination of the file shows that the law on amicable settlement was drawn up in accordance with the conditions laid down by the Constitution. The committee noted that this dossier had involved the actors of the legislature, namely ministers, members of their cabinet, members of parliament and their assistants. This took place in inter-kabinets meetings or meetings between MPs and cabinet members. The Committee considers that these practices are consistent with what is politically common and contribute to the proper functioning of the government. The legislative process has become more complicated since the principles relating to the drafting of laws were incorporated into the Constitution and into the Rules of Assembly. Many institutions, groups, individuals are involved in pre-legislative work. They do so either openly or more confidentially, on their own initiative or because they are taken up by others. During the parliamentary debate, not every Member is necessarily aware of this pre-legislative work. Fourth assessment: the role of experts, invited to hearings. Mr Raf Verstraeten is present at the meeting of the criminal justice expertise network on 22 January 2009 as an expert. When drawing up the network of expertise, it is expressly provided that third parties who may bring a certain amount of expertise can also be involved when the subject matter would give rise to this. Mr Verstraeten billed his presence there at the AWDC. Mr Verstraeten did not show sufficient transparency by not reporting that he was paid for this meeting by the AWDC. During the hearings in the Senate Committee on Justice, Mr Haelterman and Mr Raf Verstraeten, among others, were heard as experts. I remember that very well: no one knew who had brought these people in. In any case, the committee has not been able to trace that. The Committee of Inquiry notes that Mr Haelterman and Mr Raf Verstraeten re-invoiced this hearing to the AWDC. Once again, our committee's assessment is that both gentlemen have shown insufficient transparency with regard to the senators by concealing that they were in a conflict of interest. They did not show sufficient transparency by not reporting that they were again paid by the AWDC for this meeting. Parliament does not know whether there is a conflict of interest between the various activities of an expert. For example, he/she can be a professor at a university, at the same time a lawyer and a lobbyist. Parliament is also not always aware of whether the expert is reimbursed by any client for such action. The committee therefore considers that such situations can put the role of experts and parliamentary work in a bad light. Then I come to the fifth assessment, with regard to lobbying. Although the Committee judges, the AWDC advocated an extension of the law on the extended friendly settlement, the Committee of Inquiry notes that the AWDC did not influence the legislative process in 2011. Then I come to the sixth assessment, the legislative process itself. When the amendment to the extended friendly settlement in criminal matters was discussed in our Chamber's Finance and Budget Committee on 2 March 2011, most committee members refused to consult the Justice Committee. Although that refusal was not contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber and was motivated not to delay the draft law, it was not wise to disregard the expertise of the members of the Committee on the Justice of our Chamber. After the vote in the Chamber, the bill containing various provisions is called into question by the Senate. The provisions relating to the extended friendly settlement shall be assigned in the Senate to the Justice Commission, where there shall be a thorough public debate, including hearings. The Committee noted that the way in which the text was discussed in Chamber and Senate was not contrary to the Rules of Procedure of each Chamber. Although the discussion took place quickly, this is linked to the fact that the provision was part of a bill containing various provisions, a law which had to enter into force soon thereafter. The legislative practice which combines numerous issues without link with each other in so-called draft laws containing various provisions may damage the quality of the Chamber's legislative work, as these various provisions often cannot be thoroughly examined for lack of time. Colleagues, the seventh and final assessment in Part 2 concerns transparency and deontology. Our committee is very clear. Mr Armand De Decker has taken advantage of his position as Vice-President of the Senate to take advantage of his work as a lawyer. This was the case when he visited Stefaan De Clerck both at home and in his cabinet at the time, without mentioning in advance that he was acting on behalf of Mr Patokh Chodiev, Mr Alijah Ibraguimov and Mr Alexander Machkevich. Second assessment. Mr De Decker was one of Mr Chodiev's lawyers and co-consorts. Nevertheless, without mentioning any conflict of interest, he participated in the legislative work in this Parliament, which led to the adoption of the principle of amicable settlement in criminal matters and the adoption of the repair law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude this report with the recommendations we would like to make to you in part two. The first recommendation concerns transparency and deontology. Rule 163a, first paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure of this Chamber provides as follows: 'Every Member of Parliament undertakes to respect the deontological code of the members of the Chamber of Representatives annexed to these Rules of Procedure.' The obligations contained in those codes, and in particular their general principles, should be better made known. This concerns in particular Article 3. The article reads as follows: "Members of Parliament may not use their title or privileges for purposes other than those relating to the exercise of their mandate. They may neither, in the performance of their duties nor beyond, pretend to be an ombudsperson or a complaints service." Article 4 reads as follows: "In their speeches in and outside Parliament and in their contacts with individuals, groups and institutions, Members of the Parliament give priority to the general interest over the particular interest." That is what Rule 4 of our Rules of Procedure says, as you know, that we comply every day. Those rules were included in the draft law amending the Law of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission to introduce the deontological code for public operators. A second recommendation in Part Two concerns the legislative procedure. The Committee of Inquiry recommends that the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber be amended so that, at the request of a third of the members present, the committee responsible is asked to deliver an opinion on all amendments of a technical nature other than purely technical scope. Next recommendation. From the point of view of the examination of the legislative texts, our committee recommends that any expert invited by a committee of inquiry should make a statement of honour in relation to the interests he or she represents and the capacity in which he or she takes the floor. Then there are the recommendations on lobbying. The first recommendation. With regard to professional lobbyists, the Political Renewal Group of the Chamber has reached a consensus on three points. Firstly, the introduction of an efficient and feasible lobby register for the Chamber and the Senate. Several other EU Member States have similar rules. The lobby register shall be publicly available and shall be published on a specific website and managed by a designated service. It is desirable to use the same six categories as in the European Parliament. The lobby register shall contain, in addition to the personal identification of the lobbyist in question in the case of an undertaking, institution or organisation, the name, legal form, registered office, telephone number, e-mail address, company number, purpose of the undertaking and the name of the clients represented by that undertaking, institution or organisation. The conclusion of the Working Party on Political Renewal states that Parliament makes an annual evaluation of the functioning of the lobby register and publishes its findings and recommendations. Secondly, the Working Party on Political Renewal says that there will be a code of conduct for lobbyists. The signature of the lobby register also automatically implies recognition of the code. As far as the content of the code is concerned, inspiration can be obtained from the best practices from abroad. A code of conduct shall include a complaint and penalty procedure in case of non-compliance with this code. In the event of a change in the code, a new signature in the lobby register is required. Parliament shall review the Code of Conduct each year and publish its findings and recommendations thereon. Thirdly, the Working Party on Political Renewal recommends that the introduction of a lobbying paragraph be examined as to its feasibility. This means that the authors of a legislative/legislative proposal indicate in the explanatory memorandum the organisations from which advice was sought in the preparation, the so-called footprint of the legislation. The Committee supports the conclusion number 14 of the same working group to organise information sessions on parliamentary deontology following the swearing-in of the new Members of Parliament, but also on a regular basis during the parliamentary term. The Committee of Inquiry calls on the Chamber to start these information sessions as soon as possible. Colleagues, I conclude the recommendations with the last point, namely the experts and the guests at hearings. Speakers who are heard in a committee following the examination of a particular legislative initiative and who consider that they have influenced, to a greater or lesser extent, a previous legislative initiative within the same domain, whether free of charge or free of charge, report this in writing to the chairman of the committee. If the invited speaker is reimbursed for his or her presence in Parliament, he or she shall inform the person or organisation for whom he or she is reimbursed. The services of the Chamber will inform the speakers about this at the invitation. The final recommendation, and then I end my speech, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee of Inquiry welcomes conclusion No. 13 of the Political Renewal Working Party to ask the speakers clearly at each hearing in Parliament to state whether they have been or have been involved in the present legislation in another capacity and whether they are being paid for the contribution to the hearing and, where appropriate, by which body. Finally, the Committee of Inquiry calls on Parliament to adopt the legislative proposal No. 2818 to implement this conclusion as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I have explained to you what the findings of Part 2 were, to a limited extent, supplemented by Mr Becq. I have also told you what our assessments are in Part 2, as have our recommendations for that same part. Soon, of course, I will be glad to see you again for the views of our group on the work of our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall, for my part, do what we have called in the committee the "2a component", namely, for those who have taken the trouble of taking the report, from p. 233 to p. 245 on the setting up of Mr Pathok Chodiev's team of lawyers on behalf of the Elysée, and then resume part 3 on point 3 until the appraisals and recommendations (from p. 271 to p. 319). This will enable the report drawn up by all the members of the committee to be closed. I will not give you all the votes as you can consult them from p. 319 and list them would be too tedious. Concerning the "2a" part on the establishment of a team of lawyers to defend MM. Pathok Chodiev, Ibraguimov and Machkevitch on behalf of the Elysée, the commission first of all devoted itself to making a rather long preliminary remark and which is not lacking in importance. It lays down the limits of any parliamentary committee of inquiry. Indeed, if a person decides not to present himself, not to respond to our invitation, if he is Belgian, we have means of coercion but if he is foreign, we make white cabbage. We are therefore unable to demand its presence. As a result, both Mr. Catherine Degoul, a relatively important figure, and his former colleague, Mr. Éric Lambert, as well as a former French senator, Mr. Aymeri de Montesquiou, as well as the former Elysée Councillor, of which I assume Mr. Jean-François Étienne des Rosaies and Mr. Damien Loras, a member of the Élysée diplomatic cell, have not appeared before the parliamentary committee of inquiry. This means, therefore, that there is a whole series of information which, unfortunately, we have not been able to obtain. Some of them have cut behind the fact that they didn't have to answer us, others simply didn't answer us; they didn't answer phone calls or mail. Or some said that they obviously reserved to the French judge – since, as you certainly know, there is a judicial procedure in France – the information they could give. This was, for example, the case of Mr de Montesquiou. Others, unfortunately, found themselves far away, like Mr. Loras who was in Brazil, and since we could not get his exact coordinates, it was relatively difficult to send him a letter to invite him. Also in the context of this preliminary remark, some invited persons have either cut behind their right to silence, as was the case with Mr. De Decker either invoked professional secrecy or appeared and limited himself to certain statements, as the committee had to set up a video conference from the Belgian embassy to hear Mr Chodiev – who, I remind you, is Belgian – who is in Moscow for health reasons. In fact, he had asked for the lock-up and, after a statement, claimed his right to refuse to testify. These preliminary remarks being fixed – but you can therefore understand the frustration of some members of the committee – then turn to the context, which is relatively important, namely the statements of Claude Guéant, former Secretary-General of the Presidency of the French Republic, who responded well to the summons. Who, in turn, has not cut behind his right to silence. Unfortunately, however, we have obviously not been able to confront some of his statements. He therefore told us - it seems to me to be an important element - that President Nazarbayev, the President of Kazakhstan, had suggested, as he approached the State visit to France in October 2009, that it would be good for the trade relations between Kazakhstan and France that the prosecution of Mr Patokh Chodiev in Belgium should be interrupted or stopped. He states: "to the best of my knowledge, the trade agreements between these companies and the State of Kazakhstan on the issues of observation satellites, helicopters and railway equipment were under discussion". Mr Guéant told the Committee of Inquiry that it was on the occasion of this visit, in the autumn of 2009, therefore before Mr Nazarbayev, President of Kazakhstan, came to France, that he had heard of this case, of Mr Patokh Chodiev prosecuted before the Belgian courts. At that time, he had therefore instructed Mr Damien Loras to find a competent lawyer, who could intervene in this case and, of course, registered at the Brussels Bar. He pointed out that this first contact with Mr Degoul had been made under the auspices of the diplomatic unit of the Presidency of the Republic; that in his personal capacity, he did not follow up as Minister of the Interior but as Secretary-General. All this was done by notes. He made it clear - this is an important element - that, in his view, France had no initiative to amend Belgian legislation. A few contextual considerations follow on from Mr. Etienne des Rosaies, whose testimony is likely to be relativized. It will be heard in the context of interventions that will follow the report. But in any case, Mr. Guéant was therefore heard about Mr. des Rosaies, given that he reported on the steps taken. Mr. des Rosaies is, according to Mr. Guéant's statements, an employee with experience. It's not a free electron at all. He accounts a lot, that is, he makes a lot of notes, because he believes it is his duty to do so, including things that have no interest and things that are in the public domain. Mr. Guéant states that it is perfectly normal for a lawyer in charge of a case – Ms. Degoul with his team of whom Mr. De Decker, suggested by the team itself (whose names Mr. Guéant recalled) – reports regularly since it is in France's interests. Different people will be interviewed: MM. Jean-Pierre Mazery, Stefaan De Clerck, Didier Reynders, Etienne des Rosaies... In general, the personality of M. des Rosaies will be put in perspective, M. Mazery saying, for example, that he is a capable person, with a good relational, but whose strong need for recognition prompts him to draw the cover on him, attributing himself to the successes of others, sometimes going so far as to write false things, so that he can, like that, get himself mossed. In the same way, others will be questioned, putting in perspective, in Mr des Rosaies' statements, the fact that he specifies, for example, Mr Reynders' speeches. The latter will come to say that he has no contact and beyond that, that Mr. des Rosaies' statements are to be taken with tweezers. In this part, another element was also highlighted, beyond the intervention of France and its team of lawyers, set up by the Élysée: the contacts of Mr Armand De Decker and the Sûreté de l'État. Information was transmitted to the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, citing the fact that Mr. De Decker ended up in a lunch with MM. Guéant, Loras, des Rosaies and Mrs Degoul, during which the progress of the case was reported, as well as information including Mr. De Decker was reportedly aware, possibly through the State Security. This information is related to a person, a Mr. Van de Weghe, who allegedly informed a Mr. Ibraguimov, whom he also knew, of the name of a lawyer other than Ms. Degoul, who had intervened for Mr. Ibraguimov in the various proceedings. Beyond that, simply because Mr. De Decker, during a visit to France, lost his gsm. This can happen. He then called the then Deputy Head of State Security, Mr. Winants, saying, "I lost my gsm, what am I doing? I have numbers in it. Can't you try to help me find my gsm?" Mr Winants told us that he took note of Mr. De Decker to be able to find his lost gsm, that he therefore requested the establishment of a special method of intelligence and that the ad hoc committee said that there was no reason to do this search to find Mr's lost gsm. De Decker, because of the lack of motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u12	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u13	Mrs Onkelinx, the clarifications have not been made. This question may not have been asked by the members of the committee. I can only tell you what is in the report. If you will allow me, if I can continue, this part being completed, I will not dwell on all the recitals in it. So I'm going to make a direct jump to tier 3. Following the clarifications given in the report by my distinguished colleague Sonja Becq on all matters relating to the case of Patokh Chodiev, Aleksandr Machkevich and Alijan Ibraguimov et al., relating to the transaction. I must say that this is much more important than anything that can relate to the transaction that was made in Antwerp concerning the general company Belgimont. Then, of course, I will end with the assessments and recommendations. First of all, beyond the transaction itself, there was a dispute between the three Kazakhs and the Belgian State. This is known as the tax component, from point 757 to point 759. You see, it's relatively short. I say this for the record: a tax investigation was carried out by the ISI against Mr Patokh Chodiev in 1998. This led to a charge imposed on Mr. Patokh Chodiev. In 2003 and 2005, tax agreements were therefore concluded between the Belgian State and Mr Chodiev, the latter having paid in full the taxes claimed by the Belgian State, as well as the tax increases of 20 %. Now let's move on to the most interesting part, beyond the tax side. This is obviously the criminal aspect. We're wondering how this case started. It began in 1996. I do not recall the report prepared by my distinguished colleague David Clarinval. In relation to naturalization, he probably put this into perspective earlier. On 24 June 1996, an alert was sent by the Financial Information Processing Unit to the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. CTIF detected a suspicious transaction involving the payment of a London account to an account held with BBL by Mr. Ibraguimov. The sum is US$2,750,000, and US$1 million is also paid from a Swiss bank account to an account held with the BBL opened on behalf of Ms. Kajegueldina. These funds in the accounts were used to finance the purchase of four real property. That is an important element to which I shall return. As a result of the investigation, as early as 1992, an important date to be retained, another property had been acquired in the same way, except that this had not been the subject of information transmitted by the CTIF to the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. This means that there is no opening of criminal information in 1992. This is important because we will talk about it later when we talk about the transaction and its motivation. The law enforcement case will therefore be opened to the prosecutor's office, which will investigate the case on 22 November 1996. A lot of investigating judges intervened: Dominique De Haan from 1996 to 1998, then Françoise Roggen from 1999 to 2001, Michel Claise from 2001, Frédéric Lugentz from 2002 to June 2009, Michel Claise from July 2009 until September 2009, to finish in the hands of Laurence Heusghem from 2009 until the case was closed. There have been a lot of international letters rogatory in Switzerland, the Netherlands, Great Britain, Kazakhstan, Luxembourg and Jersey. Indeed, a multitude of public limited bank accounts of screen companies are established in tax havens, Jersey Island among others, many transfers of considerable sums of money without justification are observed, etc. The case was brought to trial on 22 November 1996. Almost five years later, on 8 June 2001, Mr. Patokh Chodiev, Mr. Alijan Ibraguimov and Mr. Alexander Machkevich, in particular, but they are not the only ones, Mrs. Kazhgeldina is in the pack, are under investigation. On 12 June 2001, the investigating judge transmitted the case to the Public Prosecutor's Office. For many, the investigating judge considers his investigation to be over. The Public Prosecutor's Office receives the file to make the layout of a summons, either a dismissal, or a referral to the correctional court for a judgement. It was June 12, 2001. On 25 January 2007, almost six years later, a final indictment was drafted for the first time, requesting that the persons concerned be returned to the correctional court for offences of forgery, money laundering and criminal association. In April 2007, the case was decided before the Chamber of Counsel; it would be postponed several times. On 29 February 2008, a corrected final indictment was drafted with a relatively well-known difference: in the first indictment of 25 January 2007, tax fraud was the basic offence retained, whereas in the 2008 one, corruption was used as the basic offence for the charge of money-laundering. A request for a supplementary duty will be made by the persons who are requested to be returned, i.e. the three Kazakhs, on 6 October 2008. The case will be decided by a decision of the Court of Appeal of Brussels, Indictments Chamber, on 28 January 2009. It took about four months, which is relatively fast. The case will continue before the Board, with some delay, as there will be several postponements: on 5 February 2009, 7 May 2009, 3 September 2009, 12 November 2009, 21 January 2010, 1 April 2010 and 10 June 2010. These are systematically postponements to the board that are explained, according to the statements made to us by Mr. De Wolf, by the obligation to translate the numerous documents resulting from the letters rogatory. Between December 2010 and January 2011 Mr.Armand De Decker spoke. According to Mr. Godbille's statements, he and Mr. De Decker knew each other outside politics, they had a friendship relationship, went to the restaurant on certain occasions. Between December 2010 and January 2011, without further details, Mr. De Decker informed Mr. Godbille that he had taken over the lawyer's toge and that he was involved in a criminal case involving, inter alia, a Mr. Patokh Chodiev. Mr Godbille will immediately put an end to any discussion on the matter and tell him that he did not want to know anything about it, given that Mr. De Decker had taken over the toge and was involved in a case in which Mr. Godbille had intervened. There would have been, since this was not confirmed by Mr. Attorney General at the Brussels Court of Appeal, Mr. Marc de le Court, a meeting between Mr. De Wolf, Mr. Armand De Decker and Mr. Jonathan Biermann, 13 January 2011. Mr. de Le Court doesn't remember this meeting. I'll let you know for your own sake. It should be noted that we are still in front of the Chamber of Counsel where Mr Jean-Michel Verelst, who was at the time a substitute for the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, deals with the case, which is why he is going to plead before the Chamber of Counsel and follow the case. Mr Verelst has contacts with the group of lawyers of the Kazakh trio, who ask him if it would not be possible, for reasons peculiar to the Kazakh trio (you must know that beyond all the cases they may have, they have, among other things, a bank in England and that they must therefore provide guarantees of good repute to the English system) to have a suspension of the pronouncement in the Chamber of Council, thus allowing no mention to be made of the criminal record. These persons could thus continue to be reference shareholders of that company listed on the London Stock Exchange. Mr Verelst, hearing these proposals, said: "I, in relation to a request for a suspension of delivery, can possibly be considered, except that Mrs Kazhgeldina - whom I spoke to you about earlier - has no lawyer. No one said they were intervening for her. However, it is the final economic beneficiary of the real estate transactions and financial transfers which have led CTIF to report the information to the Public Prosecutor's Office. This means that it is she who must come to ask for the suspension of the pronouncement. Beyond that, there is still an injury that is present. There are valuable buildings that have been seized. I would have to obtain the equivalent confiscation of at least EUR 5.8 million of these buildings." These are the two conditions issued by Mr Verelst for a suspension of the pronouncement to take place. Since Ms. Kajegueldina does not have a lawyer, a Mr. Jonathan Biermann will appear as a collaborator of Mr.Armand De Decker in the Senate. He will declare to the Board of Inquiry that he had obtained this employment at the time of the appointment of Mr. De Decker as Speaker of the Senate, after he had served as Minister for Development Cooperation. Mr. Biermann did documentation work, wrote speeches, and carried out, among other tasks, missions within the protocol functions of the Speaker of the Senate. He was not following legislative work. His collaboration continued until April 2012. Beyond this, he did not provide information on her counseling activity with Ms. Kajegueldina, withdrawing behind the professional secrecy and direction of her sticker. We therefore only consider that he intervened in his favour, requesting the suspension of the pronouncement. From the moment other lawyers do not oppose confiscations, the obstacles to a suspension of the pronouncement in chambers of counsel are removed. Mr. Jean-Michel Verelst invoked the risk of prescribing some of these offences and exceeding the reasonable time limit. In that connection, he said that the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office had sent a letter to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which he chaired on 25 January 2011, referring to the possibility of consenting to a suspension of delivery. The prosecution pointed out that the trial judge, i.e. the Chamber of Counsel, might consider that there was insufficient evidence to lead to a conviction, except for part of the money-laundering activities. Advocate General Godbille indicated that he was replacing Mr. From Wolf, who had gone abroad - that he had not opposed this solution. The proceedings continue before the Chamber of Council. The latter said that if Mr Verelst had followed the request made by the parties without opposition from the prosecution, the case would have stopped there with a confiscation of EUR 5.8 million, plus the costs of justice. That would have been the end of the Chodiev file. We are still in the process of hearing postponements. No doubt, on February 17, 2011, according to Mr. De Clerck, Mr. De Decker, in a sitting of the Senate, spoke to him, Minister of Justice, saying that he must speak to him about an urgent matter. Mr. De Clerck replied that he did not have the time but agreed to meet him the following weekend at his private home in Courtrai. Rendez-vous is therefore taken for the following Sunday night. Mr. De Clerck states that at the time Mr. De Decker asked to see him, he didn't say he wanted to see him as a lawyer. It is important to recall this, because it may appear as paradoxical. It happened on a Thursday afternoon, when oral questions were in full swing in the House and Senate and the Minister of Justice had to come and go. There was animation. He said, "I need to see you urgently about a file without specifying which one." Mr Stefaan De Clerck then said: "If he had told me that it was an individual file or Chodiev, I would immediately have told him that I did not want to hear anything." Mr. De Decker then shows up on Sunday night in Courtrai. But be careful, he doesn't show up alone. Without warning Mr. De Clerck, accompanied by a French lawyer, Mrs Degoul. He told Mr. From Clerck that he works again as a lawyer, that he had been consulted in a judicial file. Mr. De Clerck says he didn't know when he asked for this appointment. Mr. De Decker states that he was mandated in an individual law enforcement case that he wished to maintain. Mr. De Clerck, as Minister of Justice, immediately replied that he could not intervene in the case, that he could not intervene in individual cases. The Minister of Justice has only the right to a positive injunction, i.e. the right to request an investigation and prosecution in a case, and therefore certainly not to do the opposite. Beyond these few exchanges on the file, however, the conversation extended and focused on a possible future legislative change, in particular the widening of the possibilities for criminal transactions, Mr. However, De Clerck stated that he had not taken any personal initiative in this matter. He put an end to the conversation by saying that he had to inquire with his chief of staff, Mr. Jo Baret, to find out where he was, not knowing the ins and outs. Mr. De Decker did not stop there, especially since, between February 17 and what was to happen after that, the order of the board was made on February 18. On 18 February, despite the unaccepted request for a suspension of the sentence and certain preventive measures, the detainees were released. That is to say, they will not be prosecuted since the request was declared inadmissible because of exceeding the reasonable time limit, while for other preventions such as forgery and the use of forgery, association of criminals with a view to committing crimes, money laundering, association of criminals with a view to committing crimes, MM. Chodiev, Ibraguimov and Machkevitch, on the other hand, are referred to the correctional court. As regards prescription, which is an important element, the board of counsel notes that the last fact is dated 10 September 2004. The statute of limitations was suspended on 29 February 2008. This means that the statute of limitations will take place five years later, that is, on February 28, 2013. However, the Board finds that the reasonable period of time has been exceeded. Like I told you, Mr. De Decker doesn't stop there because after arresting Mr. From Clerck, he's going to M's. De Wolf, who is a General Counsel and a member of the General Prosecutor's Office, on February 18 before noon, to meet him without having made an appointment. He appears as Mr. Chodiev's lawyer to see whether the Attorney General's Office and the Crown Prosecutor's Office intend to appeal the recently issued order. Mr. De Wolf claims that Mr. De Decker showed up wearing his toge, without making an appointment. Mr. De Wolf adds: "I have mentioned an imminent legislative change in the matter of criminal transactions." It's February 18, 2011. The date is relatively important. Everyone will draw the consequences in the debate. Mr. However, De Wolf stated at his second hearing that he was not aware of the development of the draft law on criminal transaction at the Belgian political level in February 2011. He pointed out that this point was included in the 2008-2009 action plan and that it was 100% formal, he was unaware of political developments in February. However, for the first time, he said that there was an exchange on the imminent legislative amendment. Mr. De Wolf announces this is the first and last time he meets Mr. De Decker's position as a lawyer. The name of Mr. De Decker does not appear on any of the pleadings to which the Commission had access, except for a letter sent to him on 22 February 2011 by Attorney General M. de le Court informing him of the appeal of the Public Prosecutor's Office against the order of the Board of Counsel. On February 18, Mr. Having been arrested by a lawyer of one of the parties, in any case having presented himself as a lawyer of one of the parties, De Wolf carries out his work as Advocate General and appeals to the King's Prosecutor in charge of the case, Mr Verelst, to ask him to report, which will then intervene. On February 17, Mr. De Decker's calling Mr. From Clerck. On February 18, he went to see Mr. From Wolf and on the weekend, on Sunday night, he goes to Mr De Clerck's home. Obviously this is not enough: on 22 February 2011, Mr. De Decker presents himself at the end of the morning, always accompanied by Mrs Degoul – it's Abbott and Costello – in the office of the Minister of Justice. Mr. De Decker, who wouldn't have an appointment with Mr. De Wolf, doesn't have an appointment with the Minister of Justice either. He came to the reception, according to the statements we were able to gather, not as a lawyer but as Speaker of the Senate, and asked to be able to meet with officials in the office of the Minister of Justice, Mr.Jo Baret, whom he will meet in his capacity as Chief of the Office of the Minister of Justice. Mr. Baret is assisted by Ms. Somers, who is Deputy Chief of Staff and Magistrate. Mr. De Decker states that he addresses them as a lawyer for the Elysée. Ms Degoul, on the other hand, was presented as counsel for Mr Chodiev. And the request to Mr Baret, the Chief of Staff of the Minister of Justice and Mrs Somers, his Deputy Chief of Staff, is for an intervention to be made in order for the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office to make a settlement for the benefit of their client, Mr Pathok Chodiev. Why? Because the commercial interests of France and Kazakhstan are at stake with regard to a market in aeronautics, the Chief of Staff and the Deputy Chief of Staff will be explained to us. The answer, which is the same as Mr. De Clerck, Minister of Justice, is that the minister never intervenes in individual judicial cases, that they had to contact the general prosecutor's office in Brussels. And while both lawyers continued to insist that Elysée attached importance to this issue, the Chief of Staff and the Assistant Chief of Staff recalled the principle of separation of powers, the distinction between positive injunctions and negative injunctions. Baret said: "In my many years at the Department of Justice and the cabinet, I had never seen such an approach. I also remember thinking that he was a lawyer and that he had to know that that was not possible. I thought he was probably acting to impress his colleague lawyer." Next, it should be noted that Mr. Stefaan De Clerck, recalling the discussion with his Chief of Staff and Deputy Chief of Staff, who obviously reported to him, stated that Mr. De Decker and Mrs Degoul (this is a report by Mr Baret and Mrs Somers to Mr Degoul). De Clerck) "said in a condescending tone that the process had been undertaken at the request of the Elysée." He also states that Mr.Armand De Decker had announced with some pride that he was being solicited as a lawyer by the Élysée, an announcement made in the presence of Ms. Somers and Mr. Baret. Mr. De Clerck states that he never told anyone about it, that he was in any case excluded from undertaking anything and that for him the incident was closed. He stated, however, that, in his view, they were clearly contacts through lawyers. This is about Mr. Chodiev's lawyers, solicited by the Elysée in Mr. De Decker and Mrs. Degoul. I come to another important point. I refer here to point 782 concerning the statement made by Mr Marc de le Court, former Attorney-General of the Court of Brussels, which states that if he had known at the time that Mr. De Decker acted on behalf of a foreign state, it would have intervened immediately. He states: "In so far as I take from the explanations given to me that there has been an attempt by a foreign power to interfere in the Belgian decision-making process, in this case the Belgian judicial decision-making process, be assured that I immediately send a report to the administrator-general of the Sûreté de l'Etat". He further states that, in his view, there is a provision in the Code of Criminal Investigation, namely article 29, which provides for such cases, namely the obligation to report such acts. I remind you that Mr. From Wolf, at the request of Mr. De Decker, asked Mr Verelst for a report. The latter gives his report to Mr. By counseling Wolf to bring an appeal against the order of the Board of Counsel because, for him, the Board is tainted by a vice, namely that the three Kazakh consorts were dismissed for acts for which they were not prosecuted. However, there is no objection to a suspension of the pronouncement. He said that the appeal was appropriate because there was still a concern that the case might end up emptying itself of its substance (problem of limitation and/or reasonable time) because of the inadmissibility of the inadmissibility of criminal proceedings against Ms. Kajegueldina. He therefore confirmed that the prescription should take place on 28 February 2013. In 2011, one of Mr. Chodiev's lawyers, Mr. Tossens presented himself to Mr. Wolf's asking if there was going to be an appeal against the order. Mr. De Wolf states that he prepares an answer and then confirms that an appeal will be brought. On 22 February 2011, he ordered Mr Verelst to bring the action. The Chodiev, Ibraguimov and Machkevitch parties will also appeal on 1 March 2011. A small event is taking place in the meantime, relating to a change of counsel. It also appears from the information provided to the committee that Mrs Degoul, in charge of the defence team, met with MM. Ibraguimov, Machkevich and Chodiev around 23 February 2011. At that meeting, she reportedly referred to a law under consideration in the Belgian Parliament which could help the three Kazakh consorts to find a solution to their problem. On March 6, 2011, Mr. de le Court received an email from Mr. From Wolf, the Advocate General in charge of the case, informing him that the lawyers of the persons concerned – except Mr. De Decker – would like to organize a meeting on 9 March 2011 concerning a possible suspension of the speech. I would remind you that Mr Verelst was in favour of suspending the speech. This is what was requested in the council's chamber and the prosecutor's office has consented to it. Mr. De Wolf will reply that the judges who have dealt with the case are in favour of it, as is Advocate General Jean-François Godbille. It is in this e-mail that this meeting between Messrs. From Decker and the Court, but this one doesn't remember, I'll remind you. Mr de la Court, in order to determine whether to respond favourably to this suspension of the judgment, will therefore review the file with his two Advocates-General. De Wolf and Godbille, Mr. Godbille replacing Mr. Wolf when it's not available. He informed the Court of the catastrophic state, according to them, of the case. If there is a possibility of suspending the pronouncement, that is what needs to be done. On 9 March, the consultation between the lawyers and Mr. From Wolf is taking place. A pre-agreement was reached by which the parties concerned would no longer challenge the materiality of the offences. The confiscation of 14.6 million euros – and more than 5.4 million – is decided, equivalent to the value of real estate. Let me remind you: at the beginning, it's 5.8 million. On 9 March 2011, that is, about a month later, 14.6 million were raised, again as part of a suspension of the pronouncement. On 10 March, while Mr. Ibraguimov, meanwhile, changed his lawyer, I told you, it was Me Véronique Laurent who was recommended to him by Mr. Van de Weghe; Mr. De Wolf informs his Attorney General, Mr. of the Court, of this pre-agreement. He states that the facts will not be contested. However, the possibility of an expanded criminal transaction is mentioned - it is 10 March 2011 - with the mention that the vote on this draft is placed on the order of business of the plenary session of the House of Representatives on 17 March 2011. On or about March 16, 2011, the case was referred to the Senate Justice Committee for the first time. One person, Mr. Grégory Matgen, said that Mr. Volders, a member of the Finance Cabinet, had allegedly mentioned that a case would be at issue, with the risk of a statute of limitations. It's not specifically identified. A case would have been prescribed. Mr. Volders said that his appeal, contrary to what Mr. Matgen had said, was intended to ensure that both files were voted on together, i.e. the restorative law and the first, since hearings were requested for judicial experts. Beyond that, if he mentioned an amount in the order of EUR 50 million, it was simply because that was what was set in a budgetary way. You should be aware that the bill with various provisions has therefore been passed in the House of Representatives, and that if the criminal transaction is included in it, it is because an amendment has been tabled to this bill with various provisions, it has been tabled in the Finance Committee, that the opinion of the Justice Committee has not been requested. Then he went to the Senate. In the Senate, there is a problem, namely, that although the perpetrators want crimes to be taken into account in the course of the criminal transaction, this is not the case and there is therefore a need for a law on reparation. In order to ensure that this matter is not delayed, it is proposed to vote on the bill containing various provisions and then on the law of reparation, with the Minister of Justice intervening in this matter to make a statement. The Court stated that, in the meantime, the Attorney General would be instructed to delay the implementation of the transaction until the amending law under review had also been published. I would remind you, therefore, that an order was made by the Chamber of Counsel. We are in the appellate process, with a legislative amendment contained in the bill containing various provisions and a restorative law that must be implemented. On 2 May 2011, Mr. De Clerck, Minister of Justice, sends a letter to the College of Attorneys General to the attention of Frank Schyns, President of the College. He requested to postpone the application of the extended criminal transaction law until the publication of the reparation law; the Minister of Justice asked the Attorney General presiding over the college to draft a directive to that effect. In this regard, during the month of May 2011, the Chodiev case is under way, and the investigating judge, Ms Heusghem, is contacted by Mr. From Wolf to find out the amount of court fees; Ms Heusghem said that it was relatively unusual for an investigating judge to be contacted directly by the Advocate General for information to be provided, but there was clearly an emergency. Mr. De Wolf requested a comprehensive record of all seizures, extended to all parties, and all court costs, in order to determine the amount to be paid. However, at the time, it must be noted, as stated in paragraph 801, that it was impossible to conclude a transaction which would include prevention A, which included the forgery and the use of forgery referred to in articles 196 and 197 of the Criminal Code. Point 802 is important. On 9 May 2011, Mr. De Wolf sends an e-mail to Attorney General Marc de le Court. I invite you to read it because it contains the reasons why the criminal transaction must be implemented. On the one hand, the amounts that could be obtained in connection with this transaction could amount to EUR 14.7 million by way of confiscation, in addition to the costs and fines that could be imposed. I would remind you that the last amount mentioned in connection with the suspension of the delivery is EUR 14.6 million. We have therefore increased from EUR 14.6 million to EUR 14.7 million. On the other hand, "if prosecutions were to be brought before the correctional court", said Mr. From Wolf, "all means will be used to arrive at the statute of limitations of the public action" which takes place in principle on 28 February 2013, i.e. about two years later. A problem of proof arises unspecified and the reasonable period of time is exceeded since this has been found by the board of counsel. Mr. De Wolf also states: "Warning! There are, in the context of the case, facts dating back to 1992." Let me remind you of the facts that date back to 1992. This has been noted. These are real estate transactions that have not been denunciated by CTIF and which have not been the subject of information by the Crown Prosecutor's Office or of indictments. The first facts are in 1996 and not in 1992. On the other side, Mr. De Wolf states: "A procedural problem also arises in the case because of the existence of another procedure under investigation in the office of Judge Van Espen. We may have to return all the seizures." These are the opportunity effects in Mr. From Wolf and therefore the justifications, in his view, for which - it is 9 May 2011 - it is therefore appropriate to conclude a transaction for the whole of this case. However, I would like to remind you that on May 2, 2011, the Minister of Justice addressed a request to the College of Attorneys General for a postponement of the application of the law that was passed. On 12 May 2011, the House of Representatives decided to seek the advice of the Council of State on the Reparation Act. On 12 May, Mr. De Wolf sends a letter to the Attorney General requesting the transaction in the file and this time moving to 20 million euros, without further explanation. He states that, on 12 May 2011, it is not possible for him to wait for a circular from the College of Attorneys General since all the legal provisions for applying the criminal transaction are combined. The meeting of the College of Attorneys General with the Minister of Justice takes place from May 12 to 14, 2011. This is the meeting of the College of Attorneys General, the Council of Attorneys of the King and the Council of Labour Auditors, under the chairmanship of the Minister of Justice. According to the internal report of 15 May 2011, it was decided that the Criminal Transaction Act would enter into force only after the publication of the Reparation Act and a directive drafted by the Attorney General at the Antwerp Court of Appeal. According to the Attorney General of the Court, neither the Chodiev file nor that of the Société Générale were discussed during this meeting. Since the Minister has no injunction to issue in specific cases, he does not feel that he has to disclose to him that negotiations are under way on a file or to seek his opinion. The decision is up to him, regardless of the framework in which the minister speaks. On 13 May, Mr. De Wolf informed the lawyers of the defendants - Mes Catherine Degoul, Jean-François Tossens and Dirk Libotte - that the House of Representatives had sought the advice of the Council of State. On 18 May, Mr. de la Court sent a first circular on the application of the new Criminal Transaction Act. He states that no transaction should be proposed, except in exceptional circumstances and with the consent of the Attorney General. A copy-paste of this circular will be distributed on May 24, 2011 in the head of the Attorney General of Antwerp, Yves Liégeois. On 26 May 2011, Mr. Schins, President of the College of Attorneys General, wrote a letter to the Minister of Justice stating that he would not adopt an attentist attitude and that, to the extent that a possibility of concluding an expanded criminal transaction would arise, that would not be excluded for him, provided that he was subject to special justification and submitted for consent to the Attorney General's Office. Mr. De Clerck will therefore state that this letter was sent at the end of May and that he did not react to it, in his head. He was not kept informed of the status of the cases or was not informed of the decisions taken. Secondly, on 10 June 2011, Mr. De Wolf will receive from Mr. Libotte, counsel for one of the parties, a draft criminal transaction, a draft indictment, a draft PV; the reference to article 21ter, preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure, will be mentioned for the first time, stating that due to exceeding the reasonable period of time, the criminal transaction, even under the formula voted, may take place. There will be some exchanges between the Advocate General and the various lawyers. The Advocate General, dated 17 June, will send the first part of his draft to the first Advocate General. From Lentdecker for confirmation. On 17 June, the transaction was signed. On 17 June, the Advocate General informed the Registrar of the Court of Appeal that he would report on 28 June at a hearing in which the accused would appear voluntarily, where he would request the termination of the public action, in accordance with article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation, in accordance with article 21ter of the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure. On 22 June, Mr. De Wolf will confirm to the first Advocate General that the amounts required for the transaction have been paid. On 25 June, he will send his final requisitions and, on 28 June, a transcript of the hearing is drawn up, from which it appears that the case was examined and deliberated for a delivery on 30 June 2011. On 26 and 27 June 2011, the Kazakh Prime Minister visited the French Prime Minister, Mr Fillon, and on that occasion several agreements and contracts were signed, including the contract for the sale of 45 French EC 145 helicopters in Kazakhstan. Let us now move on to the appraisals. We're coming to the end. After the appraisals, I will have the recommendations, that is to say a few pages. On the transaction in general, the committee notes, in terms of assessment, that it is a form of negotiated justice, that in law the proposal must come from the prosecutor's office and that in fact the realities can be more nuanced and that the parties can discuss them together. Proposals can be drawn up, drawn up and put into practice. The parties concerned play an important role in the negotiated justice process. As regards the tasks of the judiciary, in general, the Committee notes that cases involving financial crime are characterized by a very long duration of treatment, a large number of judicial changes, a large number of procedural acts provided for by law, a lack of specialisation of certain judges and, ultimately, by exceeding the reasonable time frame, in addition to an international dimension, in such a way that the transaction appears to be more of a mistake than an instrument that is integrated into a coherent and thoughtful prosecution policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u14	Bravo, that's the best way!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u15	Thank you Georges, I was sure and sure you wouldn't agree with some of the ratings. (...): It's a report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u16	Yes, it's a report. I'll share my point of view later. The Committee recalls the importance, from the point of view of the citizen's confidence in justice, of the latter's ability to reach judicial decisions, including extended criminal transactions, within a reasonable time. With regard to the reasonable time frame, article 21ter of the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure, justice must be rendered in time conditions that respect the independence of the judiciary, the rights of defence of the parties concerned and the general interest of both society and its members. Exceeding the reasonable time may lead the judicial authorities to act outside their traditional framework. This reasonable period of time, in the cases examined, is ultimately justified in legal terms and the Commission therefore considers that the use of Article 21ter of the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure is justified and that it should not be adapted. With respect to the College of Attorneys General, the Minister of Justice and the reports, the Commission considers that it is not for the Minister of Justice or the College of Attorneys General to wait before applying the law already in force on expanded criminal transactions, even though several members of the Senate Justice Commission had insisted on this point. As regards the intervention of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Commission considers that, in the context of the two transactions, Société Générale-Belgimont SCRL and Chodiev et al., the legal provisions in force have been correctly applied by the Public Prosecutor's Office and therefore the transactions have been concluded validly. In the case of Société Générale-Belgimont SCRL, the Commission finds that it was impossible to conclude a criminal transaction including also the prevention of forgery in writing and the use of fakes, except through the assimilation of most preventions to prevention number one. The consequence of this assimilation would have been that it was not impossible for the Public Prosecutor's Office to conclude a criminal transaction for a forgery of ordinary law. Similarly, in the judicial file Chodiev et al., the Commission notes that the Attorney-General's Office has applied article 21ter of the Preliminary Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which allows for reasonable overtaking in order to impose a penalty lower than a minimum penalty provided for by law. It was this approach that allowed a criminal transaction to be concluded without waiting for the drafting of a law of reparation. The Commission considers that the Public Prosecutor's Office has thus made a choice of opportunity which falls within its discretion. The Board of Inquiry was unable to establish with certainty who first suggested abandoning the trail of suspension in the Board Chamber and instead opting for an expanded transaction. As far as foreign intervention is concerned, the Commission considers it unacceptable that foreign authorities should interfere in any way with a judicial investigation under way in Belgium. With regard to the notable interventions, the Commission considers that it is not ethically acceptable that the then Vice-President of the Senate, Mr.Armand De Decker, should have allowed himself to have an intervention by the then Minister of Justice, Mr. Stefaan De Clerck, in order for the latter to intervene in an ongoing judicial case. The Commission also considers that it is not ethically acceptable for the then Deputy Speaker of the Senate, Mr.Armand De Decker, to have allowed himself, in order to find his mobile phone, to request an intervention from the former Deputy Head of State Security. The committee also considers that it is not ethically acceptable that the vice-president of the Senate at the time, Mr.Armand De Decker, had gone to Paris to meet with one of the deputies of the French National Intelligence Coordinator and had misrepresented himself as the chairman of the parliamentary intelligence delegation. I'm going to the liaison magistrates, seconded magistrates. As you know, there are two possibilities: the liaison magistrate retains all of his powers and duties at the General Prosecutor's Office, and the seconded magistrate will be part of the entire...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u17	I'm learning a lot about this. I may be wrong, but I thought that rapporteurs should report on the progress of the work. I have the impression that they are reporting on the facts behind this work. I thought that the debate on the facts itself was in front of the second part, but I may be mistaken. No problem, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u18	Mr Massin has announced that he will later express his own views and reservations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u19	I thought the usual procedure was for the rapporteurs to present the report first and then to discuss each group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u20	That's right. Mr Massin will have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u21	Okay, no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u22	The Commission concerning liaison magistrates and seconded magistrates refers to the recommendation of the Fortis Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. With regard to the criminal transaction in general, the Commission recommends the introduction of teaching and training modules with all the actors who may be involved in this transactional work. This is an opportunity to become familiar with specific methods, alternative methods of resolving conflicts in court. The legislator and the ordinal authorities will also have to question the desirability of establishing rules of ethics. The Committee of Inquiry proposes to allocate the human and material resources necessary to combat financial crime, to appoint and train judges specializing in these matters. With regard to liaison magistrates and seconded magistrates, the Commission calls for a more precise definition of how the liaison magistrate is to be appointed. The activities and methods of intervention should be determined, taking into account the case to be dealt with within the prosecutor's office. For the secondment, the recommendation of the Fortis Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry must be implemented without delay. With regard to parliamentary oversight, there is a need for a clear and uniform record of expanded criminal transactions so that everyone makes the recordings in the same way, especially for the prosecution. This is both compensation and the amount of the transaction, so that these elements can be compared with each other. The commission of inquiry recommends that the law provide that the public prosecutors' offices and public prosecutors' offices record in a uniform manner, each year, the criminal transactions they conclude and report annually to the House of Representatives through the Minister of Justice. I thank you for all the votes. As the first rapporteur on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank all the members of Parliament's staff - translators, bailiffs, secretaries, members of the legislative section, etc. - for all assistance to the commission in carrying out this work. This has not always been simple, nor easy. We have experienced small translation problems, poorly placed commas, a term in Dutch that does not correspond to the French word and vice versa, small phrases of a different value. We were not simple, easy with them. I would like to thank them on behalf of the Committee for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u23	So much for reporting. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank the reporters for their comprehensive report. Colleagues, the Committee of Inquiry was established on 1 December 2016. Today we are about a year and a half later, 177 witnesses later, many hearings, many meetings and 492 pages later. We are standing here today with the result of this parliamentary committee of inquiry. Expectations were very high when it was set up and started, but it did not deliver what some had expected or hoped for. You have just heard very extensively that the essence of the discussion was the law on the extended friendly settlement, the buy-back law. A law that was passed in spring 2011. Soon after, a repair law was needed. It is true that this bill was rushed by Parliament at a very rapid rate by means of a law laying down various provisions, a very important subject in such a mammoth law, and then by means of an amendment. It was discussed in the Committee on Finance and not in the Committee on Justice, where it actually belonged, and all in the period of current cases. So it was a lot of special circumstances in a row. Of course, the discussion itself about the buy-back law was not new, as we all know. There were the Justice Dialogues in 2004 and the parliamentary discussions following the Franchimont Act. Other legislative proposals along these lines have already been tabled, and there have been the recommendations of the special committee on tax fraud. At the public prosecutor's office, both locally and at a higher level, at the College of Attorneys General, they were in favour. The criminal policy expertise network wanted to do it and also the diamond companies let me make that clear immediately, so that we save ourselves a debate afterwards. After all, they lobbied for it, at first it was an important nuance by means of a legislative proposal on the seizure of corporate property, which one of the reporters said it was signed by almost every party except the PS. So it certainly wasn't a new idea. But, it may be said, there was a sudden acceleration after the link with the lifting of banking secrecy. For example, it came through an amendment in this Parliament in the spring of 2011. I would also like to stress that our group voted against at that time. Despite the fact that something has been said about this in government negotiations, despite the signing of the proposal on the seizure of corporate property, despite the diamond lobby and even the Jan Jambon diamond forum to which some people are so keen to refer. In doing so, the irrelevantness of that forum, certainly in the drafting of this law, has also been demonstrated immediately. Excuse me, Mr. Jambon. We did not vote against because we were against the principle of the extended friendly settlement, but because the principle was still too broad at the time. That is why we have limited that during this legislature. Our main reason for voting against was above all the way in which this was driven by Parliament at the time. You can check the reports. This means that our group has experienced this POC from a slightly different position and looks at it in a different way. In that respect, we may be the most neutral and unbiased. We have two reasons for that. We do not have a political agenda in this area, as some of us are well-known opponents of the friendly settlement and try to make this system suspicious in all possible ways or put it in a bad light. In doing so, it is easy to ignore the useful aspects of the instrument. Some have stepped into this POC with a very clear vision, with an opposition logic, to damage political opponents as much as possible or to make them suspicious. One can safely speak of a ghost hunt. It is also reflected in other cases, where equally gratuite accusations are made, for purely political gain. Another reason is that we were not actually involved in the drafting of the legal texts. At the time, we did not have Cabinets or Ministers responsible for these issues. We did not co-negotiate the texts. We therefore have no one to protect or hide in this story. We have entered this POC very uninhibited and waiting. What did we want? We mainly wanted to find out the truth, just like any of us. We did not want to get confirmation of our own truth or fiction, so for us no suggestive questions. Like everyone else, we were shocked by the press releases at the end of 2016 about possible interference from abroad in the legislative process, for the benefit of a certain trio or of its own economic interests. We were equally shocked by and concerned about claims that the law would have been tailored to individuals or certain files. Every Member of Parliament who has been through this process must be shocked, especially those Members who voted with it. They must have asked themselves what stage they had been in. What happened? What's all over our heads covered and agreed? That was the essence of our committee's task. It touches the core of the functioning of this Parliament, of our democratic process, of our work as Members of Parliament. The establishment of this committee of inquiry was very soon a fact, even though it was in itself very delicate, for various reasons. First of all, as a Parliament, we had to examine ourselves: our own workings, our own colleagues, our own ministers, our own cabinets. That's not obvious. Moreover, it had to be so many years later, with the knowledge that there is now, but which could not be known at that time. We had to try not to look through today's glasses at old facts. Another difficulty was that at the same time there was a judicial investigation, with which we were not allowed to interfere. That's always balancing on a very weak cord. We were not allowed to harm the judicial investigation and should always be on our guard. One of the difficult times for me in the workings of our committee is that we have very often departed from journalistic documents in our workings and hearings, from press releases which were launched a few days before the meeting and from which we could not always check sources, and some aspects of which fell within the scope of professional secrecy. Leaving from that was not always easy. As if it weren't difficult enough, before we started there was the news that the Order of Malta was also possibly involved. There may have been a link between the new President, Mr Delpérée, and that order. Of course, that created a new difficulty, because we then asked ourselves whether, in a case in which Parliament's operation was questioned, we could allow that appearance of a link to exist. This has created a new polemic. Mr Delpérée, I am sure you will remember this as I do. Our group was very concerned at that time. I dare say here that we were genuinely convinced that we should not take a false start in this, that there should not even be any appearance of a link and that it would be better for someone else to take the role of President. That is how Mr Van der Maelen became our chairman. Mr Delpérée, I really need something to say about that start. I said it in committee behind closed doors, but I am not too bad to repeat it here today. Our concern at that time was sincere and well-meant. However, I can also tell you today that we have been wrongly concerned. I realize that this must not have been easy for you at the time, but you must have been very hard on yourself at that time. I am therefore not too sad to admit that we were wrong at the time with the information we had at the time. Maybe we should apologize for that. However, I would particularly like to pay tribute to the attitude you adopted afterwards. I think this should also be said. Despite everything, you have been constructive, objective, worthy and critical all along. You have crossed the party political level and you have gone with us to find the truth, in a very dignified way. You have shown a great objectivity in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u25	Mr Delpérée, many in this House could learn something from this objectivity. Colleagues, we should not forget that none of us are entirely objective. You can't. We have an idea, a vision, and it is very difficult to judge colleagues or political opponents again. However, the subjectivity and bias shown by some in this committee was of a very special order. I am sorry that some have come up with their own agenda at some point. Worse still, some had already drawn the conclusions in advance, even before we started. This committee was actually more of a search to see those things confirmed. That was already noticeable at the hearings. There were insinuations about the questioning, preliminaries and accusations. I remember a hearing where the questioner just said flatly to a colleague from this house that he didn't believe him, that they were vesicles. I thought this was very punishment. In fact, I did not intend to discuss this subjectivity at this sitting; as far as you are concerned, Mr Delpérée, you can be sure. We have often tried enough during the committee to raise this issue and have asked us to stop doing so, in vain, by the way. I'm gonna have to call it in, and I'm gonna tell you why right now. Mr Van der Maelen, I also have a message for you. I admire your work force and your commitment. I think that the start of this committee was good in that respect, but the attitude you sometimes took has gradually undermined the workings of the committee. I'm declaring myself. Everyone has a point of view and an idea, but you have left from your own point of view and you very much wanted to see it confirmed. There have been preliminaries. You gave interviews during our operation, in which conclusions were already made. We were still questioning people and the conclusions were already read in Humo, and not just there. A witness who had yet to be heard was accused in advance. As a member of the committee, you are not allowed to do so, and it is a pity that you do so as chairman. Experts' opinions were almost contradicted or not accepted because they did not fit in with the picture. It is particularly unfortunate that there have been leaks during our operation. We could not afford to do that, because there was a judicial investigation that was compromised. We asked in committee to stop doing so, whoever it was. We have decided to make a complaint about this. You put that decision of the committee next to you. We've worked with numbered pieces. At some point, the day before we had to vote, we were given a numbered piece, under embargo. Everyone has their own number, I was number 3. This could not yet be communicated, which is not abnormal, because that is the case with every POC. Mr van der Maelen, you held a press conference on the day before, in which you communicated your alternative report. That of course means that you also communicate about the other report, because if you give an alternative, this shows that something is not in it. For example, you communicated a report that was still under embargo at the time, and that was not supposed to happen. You did that as chairman. I didn't like that, du jamais vu. This was totally unacceptable to the N-VA Group. I was not going to say that today, but I am doing so because we spoke to you about this just before the vote in committee. The other parties have also said that it is particularly unfortunate that this has happened. Your only reaction during the plenary session was that you would respond in plenary. That is why I think I can say today that I cannot accept your suggestions and the quote from a report that was still under embargo. I suspect we're going to have a big show, too. I have no doubt about that, Mr Van der Maelen. With your truth, your insinuations and your report. The word 'deafpot' will probably also fall, despite 177 days, 492 pages and the fact that almost all of the requested is included in the findings. Go ahead, Mr Van der Maelen. I don't mind if you keep chasing those ghosts, but I'm out. I can't convince you, I've understood that for a long time. Your conclusions were made even before we heard the first witnesses. There's only one problem. Readers of the report, as well as those who have followed the hearings and those who have the courage to wrestle through this pill here, will clearly see that the predefined conclusions have not been confirmed. I'll come back to that later. Colleagues, objectivity was not the only problem in this committee. There was another one, namely the leaks. I just gave it up. There were leaks from closed sessions, from state security reports, even from drafts for expert reports. Be aware, I know something about it too: Sophie the crocodile that taters. But for some it is apparently very difficult to just keep their mouths shut. The result was that people didn't like coming to the committee or saying anything. Two experts resigned and said that the Committee of Inquiry had to solve it itself, with all the consequences. I would like to thank the services and the staff who have taken up the role to sort out the report. That was a piece of music. I am very grateful to them for that. However, I would like to point out that the leaks put the judicial investigation at risk. We will have to wait and see what the impact is, but a dangerous game has been played there. Moreover, there was also the very invigorating tactic to launch something in the media one or two days before the meeting and then to say in committee that we had to investigate it, that we had to work in this way. That too has happened. We have tried to steer the committee in a certain direction. Eventually they tried to use these press articles as evidence. In all honesty, that could have been completely different. Despite all this, I realize that what I am saying now sounds a little negative, there is a very heavy and balanced report before it, with countless pages of observations, with reports of a lot of hearings. For some it may not go far enough, we will hear it later. This is also apparent from the motion which will be put to the vote shortly. But, as has been said, our group is not interested in a cover-up, nor is it interested in a scandal. We are not interested in insinuations either, because with suspicions we are nothing. We can only deposit what we have been able to establish with certainty today. Nothing more, but nothing less. In all honesty, I do not think that we have gotten out of the way of much relevance, not at all. Except for one case, or maybe two, I'll give it to you immediately, I want to get ahead of the critics. We didn't allow a search at the AWDC, with the diamonds. Mr President of the Committee, you felt that there was still a lack of mail traffic and you wanted a search. We have indeed set a limit there. And we weren't alone, you were the only one who wanted it, no one else on the committee wanted it. Why didn't we want that? No, you might say that later because it was about the diamond, not at all. Because there was already a whole pile of mails delivered, with a lot of information, with very interesting information, where one can occasionally frown the eyebrows. You know what I'm talking about. We didn't want to do that because the diamonds later, in response to our request for more e-mails, appointed an ict-er and bailiff, who made a report of this. I'm not questioning a police officer's report. I don't do that. I don't want to do that. Who are we to do that? Moreover, the investigating judge who accompanied us also stated that we should not do this. There are still principles of law in the country. The ban on phishing is one, even during judicial investigations. And that could have been one of those. Everyone was on this line, except for the chairman. For the sake of completeness I may have to add the following: this is actually part II. You will not find much of it in the report, I will give it to you now. A diamond club has indeed been set up by Mr Jambon, which is quite right. It is also true that Mr Verherstraeten was Vice-President of this House. So was Willem-Frederik Schiltz. Even Maya Detiège was a member of that club. For the sake of completeness, I would point out that Green had no members in the club. However, everyone was invited to join the club. The club has carried out two activities. That's it. At the time, the club was conceived as a means of giving a voice to an organisation or an economic sector, one of the most important in Antwerp, by the way. In the end, however, the club did not turn out to be the big thing that some have made of it. The opposite is true. Two activities ended up with that forum. The reason why you do not find much of this in the report is that there has been no link between that diamond club and the legislative process that we have had here. That link wasn't there at all. Furthermore, should you have considered that we would have wanted to implement legislation through that forum, it would have been very silly of us not to have adopted that law. I'd like to remind you of that. Moreover, we should perhaps have used the criterion of relevance in drawing up the report a little more often. There are a lot of things in the report that are very interesting, that have some spectacle value, sound juicy and may be fun, but for which we have to admit at the end of the journey that the great relevance was not there. However, they have been included in the report. It's mostly about the French piste. They have been included in the report because we did not want to avoid discussing them. However, there is a lot of peripheral information in the report. That's why it's not a cover-up. For us, it's what it is. For us, what can be objectively established is true. No more and no less. Colleagues, what has been established? The rapporteurs have already mentioned this very extensively. So I can only repeat a few things very briefly. There was the naturalization of Mr. Chodiev in 1997. We are now in 2018, so that's 20 years ago. In this respect, we had to note that the opinions were positive and that naturalisation had been approved. Afterwards, there turned out to have been problems with police reports. The P Committee has examined this. Will we remember the real deal 20 years after the date? However, something has indeed gone wrong. There was indeed also a letter of recommendation from the MR politician Serge Kubla, which some people had a lot to do. This was not unusual at the time and had no influence on the procedure for naturalisation. Ibraguimov then, who did not get the naturalization, the system did work there. That was rejected by a connection with the Russian criminal environment. The parquet had warned us about that. So there was nothing special to report there too. Much later, in 2005, a declaration of nationality was submitted by Mr Ibraguimov and it was granted. This procedure has been successful and it has gone wrong, because the advice of both the State's office and the State's security has come out of time. The parquets didn't communicate with each other at the time. Apparently that was in the time when the animals were still talking, although that was not so long ago at all. If those advices had been there, that story would probably have gone differently. However, that did not happen. The procedure there was therefore correct. It is not obvious to make recommendations when matters are established 20 years after the facts. There are many findings, but much less recommendations, even though the legislation on the acquisition of nationality has now been completely amended. We can say and stress that there has been a communication error, that there has been some error in the organisation, that there have been certain and certain dysfunctions in the flow of information. It is therefore necessary to make the necessary recommendations on transparency, better organisation and better flow of information or information. It seems obvious to me. Then there is the second part: the legislative process. For me, this is the most important part, because it affects the foundations of Parliament. We have made a law, but have we been fooled? As far as we are concerned, there were three key questions. The first: was there any influence of the diamond sector? That was called the Antwerp piste: the lobby of the ADWC, the diamond forum of Jan Jambon, the intervention of the professors who were also lawyers and experts and wrote texts. We must dare to say that there was lobbying, that is certain. The diamond sector has certainly lobbied firmly, just as other sectors do. That's what we've been through in this house before. Greenpeace, the League, unions, bailiffs, everybody lobbies. That did indeed happen, but at first it did with the bill of seizure, which the prosecution did not want. That's an important nuance. Then came the friendly settlement in place, but that was certainly not their initial commitment. As the report has just shown, the professors would have been better informed about the status they have always acted in, especially when they have been heard as experts in Parliament. Those double caps make me feel uncomfortable. That is not transparent, it should not have happened. They should have reported that or done other business. They have cooperated in the legislation, they have written texts. The question we must then ask ourselves is whether they have actually had the decisive influence on the law, including for their clients? It may be me, but we didn't find that evidence. Before all this, apart from the legislative process, they had already written texts on it. I am thinking in particular of Professor Verstraeten, who has been working on this theme for a long time. They used to be active on the timeline, but there was a very strong support for other actors, such as the parquet and the expertise network. Recommendations on this matter have already been made in other committees, and they have been discussed for years. As Mr Becq has just said, there were so many texts that almost all of them wanted to be first in line to say that he or she was the author. Is that law really because of their determining influence? No. Everything has finally accelerated because of the blockage, because the removal of banking secrecy could be linked to it. Suddenly it happened very quickly. This lobby and these professors did not have a hand in it at the time. They had nothing to do with that at the time. Second, was there any foreign influence? That is the so-called French piste. It's a special story anyway. There is a trio, there are the economic interests of France that wants to conclude contracts, while that trio here in Belgium is still in a criminal story. That's not a good time. Something has to be done about it. When one considers that the secretary of the Elysée has a lawyer appointed, who assembles a team, in which our former colleague, President of the Senate, De Decker, comes up through lawyer Degoul, who ended up on that team, I think: what happened there? That's a special story, isn't it? France wanted to interfere in a legislative process, and perhaps even afterwards in the judicial process, out of its own interest. That was very clear in committee. That was very disturbing. I don't like that thought. That's not right at all. There is also much to be said about the role of Armand De Decker. Mr Massin has dealt with this very extensively just now. It's not nice what he's done. There is indeed colored outside the lines. That colour outside the lines and the will that one had in France, has that had a decisive influence on the implementation of this law? Determinating: sure. Are there any evidence of that? No. Moreover, there was a lot in the press about the French slopes, with sources that we could not control. If the journalist in question came to the committee and gave his statement, he said: I still have information but I do not give it because that is for my next scoop, for my next article. One gets the feeling that one plays in a story with spectacle value. It reads like a thriller, I read somewhere. All good and good, but the real determination of that link, besides the spectacle value, wasn't there. That's what people wanted, but she wasn't there. The third question to which we wanted an answer was whether the law was adopted on the basis of a number of dossiers? Yeah, I think Armand De Decker, for his client, was waiting for that. He also went to the minister's office. He went to the cabinet. I do not think this was a democratic process. They've been working on it a long time. There was support. The legislative procedure in this house has been followed. It could have been. Can one have questions about the technique used? Yeah, it is to me. That one works through an amendment, which one works through a law on various provisions, that one does not ask for the opinion of the Council of State, that one does not pass through the Committee on Justice, one may ask questions about that. I find that absolutely not elegant, not for the majority and certainly not for the opposition. I didn't think that was elegant at the time, and I still don't find it elegant. I do not think this is the right way to work for this house, but we all know that it happens more often here and that everyone has already worked on such legislation. I don't think this is elegant. I don't like the story either, but I could. What recommendations should be made after the findings and assessments? It seems clear to me that the capacity of the speakers and experts needs to be made much clearer. I also think it is right that we should know what activities they carry out in other ways. It seems to me that it is only natural to make recommendations in this area. The fact that we agree with the Working Party on Political Renewal on the lobby register and the code of conduct for lobbyists seems to me to be only natural, this is self-evident. I am actually very pleased with the recommendation that an opinion can be requested from a competent committee on the technique used before approval in another committee. If the comments are of a more technical nature, it seems logical to me that a committee responsible should be asked for an opinion if a third of its members so request. The fact that we are all reminded of our deontology, namely that the public interest must take precedence over private interests, is self-evident. I know that some of them wanted to go much further, especially for lawyers. If we do that, I think we should go through with it. I believe, however, that this is too far-reaching and that it must be extended to every profession and activity. It is certainly not right to target a particular profession. We have already decided in committee to remind everyone of the deontology and the fact that we are all committed to it. As far as we are concerned, the technique, which is to rush something through Parliament by means of a law laying down various provisions, can be reduced as much as possible. I come to the third part: the application of the legislation. After all, the legislation was adopted in the spring and had to be repaired, but that did not happen until the summer. There was then a letter from the Minister asking for the scheme to be applied as little as possible, which is, of course, absurd because the law had already been passed. Of course, then we cannot ask the Minister not to apply them. I don't think this happened with malicious intentions, but that's a difficult thing. It was interesting to see how the law was applied then, because Armand De Decker was active there too. In the meantime, everyone knew that France wanted a settlement, because it absolutely didn't want a conviction and neither did the trio. There have therefore been discussions and negotiations with the prosecution, in which Mr De Decker has appeared in a toga. You just heard that very well from the reporters. What friendly solutions have been concluded during that period? That was two of them. The first was a settlement with the Société Générale, an Antwerp file. We have looked at this and, above all, have it checked. Our experts have also checked this and it appears that the friendly settlement has been applied in a legal way. Actually, there was no problem there. The same applies to the settlement with Mr Chodiev, a dossier from Brussels. There, too, the scheme was applied in a legally correct manner. I will repeat once again that Armand De Decker behaved inappropriately in this story: he mixed up the qualities of lawyer and senator, he had talks with the Cabinets, with the Minister, with the Public Prosecutor... But did he influence the course of the proceedings? If we get this straight, there's no evidence of it. Nor has there been any evidence that the French law team that has been constituted has been able to stamp the legal proceedings. What recommendations should we suggest? That is also very difficult. At least there must be uniformity in the registration of friendly settlements and in their application. It can't be that one arrondissement judges differently from the other. There must also be an annual report so that Parliament can look at it and keep an eye on it. The debate is about whether or not that law should be there. There may be differences of opinion on this. We all know that the law has been passed, because a lot of financial procedures or files are very complicated, we lack specialisation and time is lacking, thereby jeopardising the reasonable period of time. A friendly settlement would rather be concluded than be faced with a statute of limitations or an acquittal. It is a pragmatic solution, one can be in favour of or against. However, it is still better to have something than to have nothing. If we are to avoid and remedy this in the best of the worlds, then we must and can only recommend that more people, resources and opportunities be given to justice in the fight against financial crime. Colleagues, I'm finishing up. When we pass our uniform of ghostbuster or ghost hunter and the dust of the committee finally lays down, it will appear that, despite the leaks, despite the legal procedure which made it not easy to work, and despite a number of preliminaries, we have tried to make the best of it. I repeat that I am aware that it does not go far enough for some people and that they would have preferred to have seen their vision or idea confirmed. They'd rather have been a ghost hunter a little longer. There are songs about that, namely Ghostbusters. But if we leave all the insinuations aside and put them away and if we reduce all the alleged spectacles to their true proportions, then we find that we have not found any ghosts. At most a little Casper, a little Armand De Decker, with a costume from Casper, who has come to squeak. We may have found it. Also, a number of people have not been transparent. Maybe they should have known better. That's right. However, we must note that there is not much left of the great spectacle. If we ignore the honking and base ourselves on what is really evidence, what is our job, we must find proof; with suspicions we are nothing, we must admit that for some the pieces of the puzzle fell exactly right. A number of individuals or bodies have been given what they wanted, without having had to do much for it. I am not too bad to admit that this even applies to the diamond sector. This sector wanted a solution for the seizure of their business goods and was given the possibility of an extended friendly settlement. So the sector was working on a point and got something else. The same goes for Armand De Decker, who in my personal opinion has been well paid to do as little as possible. He sold that well to his clients. We must dare to say that a number of people and certain bodies have been reprehensible, at least not transparent. We also have to admit that the legislation was not elegant in this Parliament, even if it was permitted and nothing illegal has happened. At the same time, I think we can also see that, despite everything, the usual legislative process, the democratic process in this house, has not been affected, certainly not in the way we feared at the start of this committee. That is what we were all about, and that was what we were all so worried about in December 2016. I am personally very happy about that. I'm glad we didn't find that ghost. Some might prefer to see more spectacle, the big story about a different conclusion, the bankruptcy of Parliament and of our democracy. Perhaps this debate would have been a little more interesting and interesting, more colleagues would have come to listen, more press would have been present, would have lured more people than it is today. I am very pleased that we have not been able to establish this. Like the Members of Parliament who were involved in the legislative process at the time and who asked themselves whether we were fooled here. Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues. It was a year and a half an hour and a half, but it was a very pleasant time to be together. It was heavy and not obvious, but it does create a connection, with some people on a committee sitting together at a time when others are already home. I would particularly like to thank the members of all the political groups who have contributed to this. I would particularly like to thank our services: interpreters, staff and our secretariat, because I do not think the ladies have had it under the market. We weren't easy customers. They deserve that figurative flower. We can look back on a turf from a report, which contains a lot of interesting and interesting things and which we can all learn and have learned from, but in which the ghost, apart from the little Casper, has not been found.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u26	Mr President, I shall try to be somewhat less long than the part of the report I have made. But you will agree with me that this was a particularly long job. However, I did not want to be as exhaustive as our colleague Van Quickenborne. Unfortunately, there was a lot of material, and you will quickly understand why. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a fantasy is how Armand De Decker called the Kazakhgate when he was questioned by the press. Today, the masks have fallen. The lie is unmasked. No, Mr De Decker, Kazakhgate is not a fantasy out of the imagination of journalists and opposition parliamentarians. Yes, the Kazakghate is a real state scandal, which was made possible by the active complicity of the former President of the Senate. Yes, Armand De Decker shamefully confused his activities as a politician and lawyer to obtain an indecent remuneration of more than 730,000 euros. He has thus compromised himself in a conflict of interests unworthy of a politician whose duty is to serve the citizens. Yes, Armand De Decker asked the then Minister of Justice, Mr. From Clerck, to illegally intervene in favour of Chodiev and his associates. Yes, Armand De Decker is involved in the payment of 25,000 euros to one of the magistrates who handled the judicial file of the Kazakh oligarchs. Yes, the French government was manoeuvring. All these facts are serious and must be politically denounced in a firm manner. I would add that our work in committee is not limited to the Chodiev et al. dossier. We have indeed highlighted an incredible lobby in the diamond sector, in favour of criminal transaction. Diamond trees planted the tree on which Chodiev, thanks to Armand De Decker, will come to pick the fruit, which will not be his redemption. We will see that this is the real lesson of our committee of inquiry. Our democracy and justice are still too vulnerable to the forces of money and our duty must be to strengthen them. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's work has therefore been divided into three parts: the acquisition of Belgian nationality by Mr. Chodiev and Ibraguimov; the legislative process leading to the adoption of the law on criminal transaction; the judicial work leading to the signature of a criminal transaction by MM. Chodiev et al., at the initiative of their lawyers. I will therefore follow this division in the body of my intervention. With regard to the first part, the report traces the events of the time. On 14 March 1996, Mr. Chodiev submitted an application for naturalization to the House of Representatives. If you have been attentive to the report, on 24 June 1996, the CTIF denounces to the prosecution abnormal movements for real estate transactions, coming from Swiss accounts - $1.5 million - and English - $2.5 million. On 22 November 1996, the case was brought before Dominique de Haan, an investigating judge. On 14 March 1996, Mr. Chodiev therefore submitted his application for naturalization. In accordance with the procedure, the naturalization service requires the opinion of the Office of Foreigners, the Nivelles Public Prosecutor's Office, and sends a request for information to the State Security Service. The responses received were all positive. No body objects to Mr. Chodiev's application for naturalization. However, in the course of our work, we found, with the assistance of the R Committee, that at the time the State Security Agency had information that established a link between the general problem of the Russian mafia and Mr. Patokh Chodiev. CTIF also provided information to the Public Prosecutor's Office. I therefore believe, and my group too, that the State Security had a duty to transmit this sensitive information to the Chamber, since it was of course such as to alter the Chamber's opinion on Mr. Chodiev's application for naturalization. A second malfunction was also observed in the naturalization of Mr. Chodiev, but this time at the Nivelles Public Prosecutor's Office. On 7 March 1997, the Nivelles Public Prosecutor's Office gave a favourable opinion, whereas in 1996 the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office had received information from CTIF concerning Mr Chodiev, as a result of possible misappropriation, money laundering and forgery, and a decision was taken on 22 November 1996. The investigating judge had therefore opened an investigation, inter alia, against Mr Chodiev, in connection with a possible money laundering operation in connection with suspicious real estate transactions in Brussels. In addition, this was akin to similar operations, dating back to 1990, not followed by a pre-trial investigation. Here too, the House of Representatives has not been properly informed. MEPs were therefore unable to take a decision on Mr Chodiev's application for naturalisation with full knowledge of the matter. You will agree with me that this is particularly regrettable. In the case of Mr Chodiev's partner, businessman Alijan Ibraguimov, there were also shortcomings in the procedure for acquiring Belgian nationality. Mr. Ibraguimov arrived in Belgium a little after Mr. Chodiev in 1997. He then initiated two proceedings with a view to obtaining Belgian nationality. The first application for naturalization was made in 1997, after his arrival. He made his request via the far right MP, Philippe Rozenberg. The latter, on a fee-for-service basis, is making a great deal of effort to obtain it, and in general for the people of the former USSR. Of course, it was a scam. During the examination of Mr. Ibraguimov's application for naturalization, the Chamber was informed of his relationship with the Russian mafia this time and, of course, rejected the request. Despite this refusal, Mr Ibraguimov became, despite everything, Belgian in 2005, but through a procedure of declaration of nationality made to the civil registry officer of the municipality of Braine-l'Alleud. He is known for his links to organized crime, with the Russian mafia. That is why the Chamber refused his application for naturalization. He thus became Belgian because the Sûreté de l'Etat, which had all the elements in hand, and the Nivelles Public Prosecutor's Office had not opposed his request. In conclusion, we can see on this aspect "Naturalization", our investigation highlighted the rigorous work of the services of the Chamber dealing with applications for naturalization. Failures have been caused by the State Security Service or the Nivelles Public Prosecutor's Office, but not by officials or members of the Chamber. It is important to stress this because this has the consequence of making a series of populist discourses lie in relation to naturalization, which are sometimes developed by some to the right or the far right arguing that naturalization is too easily granted. When the State Security or Public Prosecutor's Office malfunctions, this can happen. Colleagues, I turn to the analysis of the legislative process that led to the amendment of the criminal transaction mechanism in 2011. Our committee of inquiry has carried out a particularly thorough work. Members of Parliament, ministers, attachés and heads of cabinet were questioned, all those who could pass were heard to trace the original texts amending the procedure of the criminal transaction. A first major observation highlighted by the commission of inquiry is that it cannot be denied that the Antwerp diamond sector has conducted an intense lobby to obtain legislative amendments and to put an end to the legal proceedings against certain diamond miners. The objective was also to recover the seized diamonds. It can be said that this sector has not spared its efforts: it has intervened with local and provincial authorities, Flemish party presidents, the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office, the College of Attorneys General, deputies and federal ministers. For this lobbying work, the Diamond Federation (AWDC) used the services of university lawyers and professors: Axel Haelterman and Raf Verstraeten, two names that I hardly knew. Once I know what was going on, I have to admit I was impressed. What a job they have done! In 2008, they will draft a draft law on seizures by equivalent, to recover diamonds, and forward it to several federal deputies. It was eventually filed by CD&V, Open Vld, sp.a., MR, and cdH. In February 2008, in a notice sent to Minister of Justice Jo Vandeurzen, the College of Attorneys General will oppose this legislative amendment. The investigating judges who will be consulted will also not be in favour. In the face of opposition from the judiciary, what will Minister Vandeurzen decide in April 2008? He will organise a consultation in Antwerp, bringing together his cabinet, the Antwerp prosecutor's office, investigative judges and who else? The diamond sector, of course! Secondly, because the baby needs to be redressed, citing economic repercussions – for example, in terms of employment – it will be combined with the FEB, which will thus serve as an excuse to generalize the file and avoid that the "poor little" diamonds are the only ones to be targeted. During this consultation, the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office proposes to extend the mechanism of the criminal transaction. Of course, this is of interest to diamondmakers. What do lawyers do then? They immediately draft legislation to achieve this objective. This bill will then be reviewed by the College of Attorneys General and will form the basis for a draft bill that Secretary of State Carl Devlies will have discussed within the government in 2009. Mrs. Penne told us about this. This preliminary bill to expand the criminal transaction will finally be blocked by the socialist bad guys at an intercabinets meeting in July 2009. The PS opposed it. Ladies and gentlemen, the sequence that I have just described to you appears as it is in the report. You'll still agree that she's amazing. At the very moment when some diamond dealers, who are being prosecuted by the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office, are being seized, what happens? The Federation of Diamonds, the Antwerp Prosecutor's Office, the College of Attorneys General create a genuine sacred union to obtain an expansion of the possibilities of criminal transactions. All this with the blessing of Justice Ministers Vandeurzen, first, and De Clerck, second. Let me not be told that the independence of justice has not been compromised by this episode! It's really amazing! You will agree with me, ladies and gentlemen, that very few litigants have such a red carpet carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office, by the legislature when they are prosecuted. This sequence demonstrates the inequality that still prevails among citizens and litigants. Unfortunately, this is far too common, but it must never cease to question us. Don't let anyone tell me that Class Justice is a boat formula! Let's go back to the process of passing the Criminal Transaction Act. As I explained to you, the preliminary draft of Secretary of State Devlies on the criminal transaction is therefore blocked by the PS in July 2009. As a result of this blockage, the plan to expand the criminal transaction will almost never again be mentioned in the government until January 31, 2011, when the Chief of Staff of the Minister of Finance, Didier Reynders, called for it to be included in a bill of various provisions. This request will not be agreed within the government. To skip the obstacle – let us remember that we are in the business – the Council of Ministers decides that the whole will be dealt with at the level of Parliament with a bill containing various provisions containing bank secrecy and amendments that will have to be discussed in Parliament to see if a majority emerges regarding the criminal transaction. Everything will be done in early March 2011. I will not go back to the details of the parliamentary debates at the time, which were presented to you almost in extenso, just now. Regarding the way in which Parliament dealt with the Criminal Transaction Act, in 2011, I can tell you that during my short parliamentary career, since I was a Member of Parliament from 2003 to 2007, that I have been re-elected since 2014 and that I resign next week, I have seen ill-born laws, but the one on criminal transaction is a synthesis of the worst habits that can be observed in our assembly. It is, first of all, the result of a political linkage at the level of government that binds two subjects that have no relation to each other. You'll agree with me that it doesn't really make things easier. Second, this legislative amendment is made through a parliamentary amendment, by the government in day-to-day affairs, to a bill containing various provisions. This, of course, makes it possible to go beyond the Council of State since – I would remind you – it is a parliamentary amendment. And it is integrated into a tote law that limits the quality of parliamentary work. The opinion of the Council of State is not requested and the opinion of the Justice Committee is refused. The debate is dispatched in one evening. That is a beautiful image of democracy! All of this cannot lead to a good result, as the rest of the events will show. Fortunately, Mr Delperee, my dear colleague, at the time, bicameralism was still a reality. The Senate is therefore also considering the bill. What is the Senate doing? He said he was going to do a real parliamentary job and invite three university professors. No luck, without knowing it... But I may be a little too naive, because I still wonder whether some members of parties in the Antwerp lobby were not in a position to know it. But let's be generous, and let's say that, without knowing it, honourable senators are inviting two professors who are diamond attorneys and who drafted in 2008 the bill that Devlies supported in 2009. And these lawyers who come here as experts, as university professors, do not consider it useful to warn senators of their conflict of interest. They will even conceal it and pass their opinion as only academic, while, not only, they act on behalf of their diamond customers but, in addition, they are being paid to come to the Senate to give an informed opinion to this noble House which must judge a particularly important matter, namely the criminal transaction, which obviously does not concern them in any way, and especially not their customers! What a fine illustration of the incredible diamond lobby in favor of the criminal transaction! During these hearings, it was pointed out that the draft contained an error, a legal problem. Indeed, the scheme could not apply to crimes, whereas the explanatory memorandum indicates that it is the intention of the authors. Faced with this inconsistency, the majority at the time decided to immediately draft a restorative law and to have it passed in parallel with the bill at the same plenary session. This is justified by the desire to avoid the parliamentary shuttle, which will cause a lot of problems in the future. Colleagues, with regard to the parliamentary path to the criminal transaction law in 2011, we must all note that it was unworthy of the seriousness with which the House must work. I regret that, in our report, the majority refuses to learn all the lessons from this chaotic legislative process. I am not saying that there is nothing good in this report. I welcome the recommendation on the register of lobbies and the recommendation to require the experts heard by the Chamber to state their possible conflicts of interest and to disclose whether they are paid and by whom. I think, however, that the recommendations voted in committee are totally inadequate. In particular, I had tabled a recommendation to prohibit the use of tote laws that pollute parliamentary work. I wanted amendments to the bill containing various provisions to be systematically submitted to the Council of State. If this is not accepted, I have said that we are in favour of having important amendments, such as the one on the criminal transaction, systematically be the subject of an opinion of the Council of State. All this was rejected by the majority. I'm sorry, but I'm giving you a second chance. I repeat the amendments in order to see if you also consider these recommendations necessary, in order to bring true quality into democratic work, and to guarantee our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to the third part of my speech, which deals more specifically with the judicial file against Chodiev et al. Thanks to numerous hearings, almost as numerous as on Part 2, including that of Claude Guéant, but also thanks to the valuable assistance of the R Committee, we were able to trace some of the activities of the Chodiev et al. team of lawyers. Of course, we have not been able to know everything because of professional secrecy, the right to silence and the policy of the empty chair. But despite everything, we got some information. Then, thanks to the hearings of the members of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office and the General Prosecutor's Office, we were able to analyse the negotiations on the criminal transaction that Chodiev and his associates eventually benefited from. On this basis, our Committee of Inquiry was able to re-establish a particularly troubling time line. It all began in October 2009, when Kazakh President Nazarbayev told French President Sarkozy that it would be good for trade relations between Kazakhstan and France, that the prosecution of Mr Patokh Chodiev in Belgium should be stopped. In Belgium! This is clearly an economic blackmail and a request for intervention in the affairs of a third country. The Kazakhs asked the French to put an end to a procedure in Belgium. Without being a great specialist in international relations like the chairman of the committee, it is still clearly a request for intervention in a third country! It is now understandable why Mr Sarkozy accepted in 2009. He should have refused this Kazakh request directly. He should have said: "No! Not at all!" Mr Guéant chose to set up a team of lawyers to intervene in Belgian judicial cases. Guéant denies having intervened in the legislative process. Let's take note of it! Let us limit ourselves to judicial matters! It's already serious enough as a state affair! In the team composed, we find a few collaborators of Mr. Sarkozy, not least: Mr. Guéant, who is still his right-hand man, Mr. Damien Loras, who deals with diplomatic relations, Mr. Jean-François Etienne des Rosaies, a sulphurous character, a barbouze in chief of the Élysée and lawyer Catherine Degoul, as well as a prominent Belgian lawyer well known for his competence in criminal law and criminal proceedings, Mr. Armand De Decker, who was no longer a lawyer, who no longer pleaded because, of course, when he was Minister of Development Cooperation and then President of the Senate, then Vice-President of the Senate, Minister of State, there was no need to plead. However, at the end of 2010, he took over the dress, probably because he needed some money, and joined Ms.Degoul's team set up by the Élysée at the end of 2010. And the events are going to go on, but at V-V' speed! On 17 February 2011, Mr. De Decker, Deputy Speaker of the Senate, the questions and answers, said: "Ah, but here's the Minister of Justice, I'll go see him! Hey, Stefaan, you don't want to come near me, I need to talk to you about a case, it's important, it's urgent. I'm not telling you what, huh! But we need to see each other right away." Stefaan De Clerck, in a hurry, not knowing what to answer, will say to him: "Well, come to my house, come and see me on a Sunday night!" A Sunday night! Meanwhile, on February 18, 2011, what did the board do? She referred Chodiev et al. to the Correctional Court for forgery, forgery, criminal association and money laundering. And don't tell me these are "rikiki" preventions! Don't come here to tell me that it doesn't weigh anything! Don't tell me we're facing a small file that doesn't mean much! And on February 18, what does the "bel Armand" do? He's going to the office of attorney general Patrick De Wolf to unannounced. It's true, they "guarded the sheep together"... but no, it's to talk about the Chodiev file! And what do they say? A future amendment to the Criminal Transaction Act is mentioned at this meeting. Yes! Do you have to know that anyway? We still need to be slightly informed: nothing is yet deposited. Important discussions have taken place in intercabinet, but it is still difficult... Of course, there is a notification, but bank secrecy, as we know, is included in a bill containing various provisions. But the next step will be an amendment. It must follow its course, there may be the Council of State, it can... And Patrick De Wolf, ah yes, that's right, he's a magistrate in the office of the Secretary of State. And Armand De Decker, maybe he knows, I don't know, I don't say. And two days later, following the small informal meeting in the Senate, Armand De Decker went to the Minister of Justice Stefaan De Clerck. He doesn't go there alone. He's going with Mrs. Degoul. And what's he doing, Armand De Decker? He asked the Minister of Justice to intervene in the Chodiev case. He is a lawyer, he has still completed a few years of study (it must be five years, if I remember correctly, since I did the same). The principle of separation of powers, he must know what it is. The right to a positive injunction must know what it is. And he must still know that a Minister of Justice, in principle, does not intervene in an individual case. A Minister of Justice cannot, above all, tell the public prosecutor, while in the Chamber of Council, to stop or accept a suspension of the pronouncement. We cannot yet speak of a criminal transaction, since it has not yet been voted on. What is at stake at that time, February 20? It is an appeal from a decision of the board, which partially refers the Kazakh trio to the correctional court. These people risk losing their qualifications in the eyes of the London Stock Exchange, which would endanger a large company in London that weighs hundreds of millions of euros or more. That's the call, of course. What's the point of the appeal? It is that the case is not in the correctional court with publicity. But on the other hand, we leave time to move towards something else, whether it is a suspension of the pronouncement or, if it is voted, a criminal transaction. What does Stefaan De Clerck say? "I refuse this request." But at this meeting... Luckily, Stefaan De Clerck does not fall behind his right to silence. He doesn't do the empty chair policy. He said that a future amendment to the Criminal Transaction Act had been mentioned. Mr. From Wolf, two days before Friday 18. Mr. From Clerck, Sunday night at his home. Two days later, on February 22, Mr. De Decker doesn't stop there. We can tell him that he really has a lot of ideas. It is true that we are talking about more than 700,000 euros. Always accompanied by Mrs Degoul, arm on arm under arm, he goes unannounced to the Minister of Justice, say Mrs Somers and Mr Baret. They introduced themselves without having an appointment. Mr. De Decker, to see the doors open, said: "I am the Speaker of the Senate, I must be able to meet the Chief of Staff and the Deputy Chief of Staff." Once inside, he presents himself as a lawyer for the Elysée, I suppose, to show his full importance, the importance of his approach and the fact that he must sit down and face up to his request and probably respond positively – at least I suppose that's how he sees things. But he says he defends France's interests in a market with Kazakhstan. They were received that day by the minister's chief of staff, Mr. Baret, who was going to call his deputy Mrs. Somers - because it was a judicial case. Both will respond that they refuse to intervene in the Chodiev file. In this connection, I cannot help but recall a statement by Mr de la Court, Attorney-General of the Brussels Court of Appeal, who told us: "If I had known this, as it is an interference in Belgian judicial cases, I would have resorted to Article 29, denounced the facts to the Public Prosecutor's Office and warned the State Security, since there is a small diplomatic problem". What's Mr going to do? Clerck? Nothing! What about Mrs. Somers? Nothing! The same goes for Mr. Baret. They told us that they returned their interlocutors and said that they could not intervene in this type of case and that, therefore, the case was closed. We lift the carpet to slip the dust underneath and then go back to his occupations. It's still amazing! You'll agree with me. While legal provisions must be applied, the Chief of Staff of the Minister of Justice and a magistrate who is deputy chief of staff, deliberately and knowingly, do not apply a provision requiring them to denounce such interference in the affairs of our State. On the same day, 22 February, the Public Prosecutor's Office brought an appeal against the order of the Board of Counsel. On March 6, Mr. de le Court will receive an e-mail from Mr. Wolf, the attorney general De Decker went to see who's supposed to follow the case. From the long and particularly painful hearing of Mr. From Wolf, we note that he followed the case without really following it: at one point it was him; at another, it was Mr. Godbille or another magistrate. Still, he did not answer my question: how did Mr. Could De Decker know that he was the one handling this specific case? His only answer is, "I don't know." Then at some point, the answer becomes "perhaps because I am president of the Economic and Financial Section of the Attorney General's Office (EcoFin). Maybe that's why he came to see me." Without any certainty! Understand my frustration! The element is probably not important but how to explain that Mr. De Decker's just going to see Mr. De Wolf and the latter take the case and give the instructions to Mr. Verelst. The Attorney General receives this e-mail from Mr. De Wolf, who states that the prosecutors (including Mr Verelst) who have dealt with the case at first instance, that Advocate General Jean-François Godbille, who has intervened from time to time in the case (perhaps when Mr De Wolf did so). De Wolf was absent) but not following the case, are in favour of the idea of a suspension of the sentence in the Chodiev file. In this letter, reference is also made to a meeting between Mr. De Decker and M. de Le Court. But he says: "I don't remember. The agendas don't seem to fit. That's why I'm telling you that a meeting didn't have to take place." I do not call it affirmative. He didn't say, "I'm sure and sure she didn't stand." From 10 March - I would remind you that the law on the criminal transaction has not yet been passed - the Attorney-General's Office and Chodiev's lawyers are considering concluding a criminal transaction to put an end to the prosecution. And this is already being debated when the new law has not even been passed by Parliament. We ask the question and the people in the prosecution say they've anticipated. Admit that the answer is a little short in the head of the prosecutor's office to say that they anticipate a vote in favour of a proposed amendment contained in a bill of various provisions! It is only on 17 March that the House will vote the law on the criminal transaction and on 31 March, the Senate will vote the same. On 2 May, the Minister of Justice will ask the College of Attorneys General not to apply the new Criminal Transaction Act until the publication of the Restorative Act. You remember the report I made earlier. Initially, between 12 and 14 May with the PV of 15 May, the College of Attorneys General will not object to this request by the Minister. The President of the College of Attorneys General, Attorney General Schins, will issue a directive to this effect. Very quickly, four days later, on 18 May, Mr de la Court, Attorney General of Brussels, will send a circular saying that, except in very exceptional circumstances, with the consent of the Attorney General, send me a report justifying the particular circumstances and you will be able to apply the law, and therefore consecrate a criminal transaction. It must be remembered that on 9 May, Mr. De Wolf sent a letter even before the meeting of the College of Attorneys General with the Minister, justifying the entire criminal transaction, the financial means obtained, the reasons for applying the criminal transaction, the reasonable period of time and the risk of statute of limitations, and even making a mistake by referring to the facts of 1992 which had nothing to do with the file. There is a case in Justice Van Espen, but there are other cases. To believe that it has been more or less tailored for this project, how to put it in place! When I tell you that the time line is particularly challenging, agree with me that there are dates and facts that are not to be called into question when they are put together, which may suggest that things have been arranged. In this case, we can ask ourselves questions. Some of them are underlying. There can be agreement on the reasonable period of time or on the prescription. But money is important! If you paid close attention to the report I made to you earlier, in the chamber of the council the attorney of King Verelst said that he will get 5.8 million euros of seizure per equivalent, of the buildings in the file Chodiev. It is against this EUR 5.8 million that it will agree on the suspension of the speech. On March 9, we are still on the suspension of the speech. In an e-mail, Mr. De Wolf says he's going to get 14.6 million euros. Waiting for delivery, good work! Between Mr.Verelst, Board Chamber in February 2011, and March 9, 2011, we went from 5.8 million to 14.6 million! And we are being justified on 9 May, and even on 17 June, the criminal transaction for 14.7 million euros by telling us that this is an exceptional result, that we absolutely must not miss, that it must be signed because we will never get that amount! Except that two months earlier, 14.6 million had been in the context of a suspension of delivery. But the suspension of the sentence and the criminal transaction are not exactly the same in legal terms! In one case, if you commit offences, you are at great risk, while in the other case, you are not on the criminal record. It's all over, we're white as snow and we're going back to zero! Let us remember that in the Chodiev case, it is the lawyers who will suggest the legal solution. Indeed, there is a legal problem since for crimes it is not possible. We will do the same in the case of Société Générale in Antwerp. But to believe that in Antwerp they are more imaginative since they will make an assimilation while in Brussels it is the lawyers who make the suggestion. On the other hand, the transaction cannot be concluded when the law is not yet in force, unless section 23ter is applied, if I recall correctly. Despite the minister's request, despite the impossibility, a transaction was concluded on 17 June 2011 for the 14.7 million euros, plus fines plus fees. According to Mr. From Wolf, it's about 20 million. The agreement therefore takes place on 17 June, the payment is made on 22 June, the hearing is held on 28 June, the judgment is delivered on 30 June. I know we're not all lawyers, not all courts and tribunals, but I can tell you that, in my life as a lawyer, I've never known that. However, I have been pleading for more than 30 years. I have never known this – an agreement reached on 17 June and a judgment delivered on 30 June – especially at the end of the judicial year where cases tend to accumulate on the benches of courts and tribunals and, more particularly, at the Brussels Court of Appeal, which is known for the speed at which it renders its judgments and the speed at which it manages to obtain fixation hearings. But it's not the most important thing, even if I'm told by the deadlines that we've set foot on the accelerator. We were as fast as we could. Ten days after 17 June, on 26 and 27 June, a Kazakh gentleman made a state visit to France. He does not meet Nicolas Sarkozy but Prime Minister François Fillon to sign a lot of documents and contracts, which include 45 helicopters in Kazakhstan and the railway. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of concern. Doesn't this chain of events bother you? Don't you ask yourself a few questions? Although it is true that there are still areas of shadow, in particular because of the refusal of Armand De Decker, Catherine Degoul and Patokh Chodiev to answer the questions of the committee of inquiry, our work, it seems to me, makes it possible to draw a number of major conclusions. The first important conclusion, when collaborators of the former French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, intervene in order to free three oligarchs linked to the Kazakh power from their judicial troubles in Belgium, is called interference. This is unacceptable! of the court says it himself. He was attorney general at the time. For him, this is called interference. And when we talk about interference, it seems to me normal that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should contact his French counterpart to show that Belgium is ready to defend the independence of its justice system. It is to defend our democratic institutions that we go to meet the French Foreign Minister or the French Prime Minister to say: "It is unacceptable! It's intolerable!" That's the least I can do! And what does the majority do in that case? "No, I refuse!" You'll have a second chance. Please, grab it! I find it lamentable that such an attitude of the former President of the French Republic can be seen and that we do not decide to react at the diplomatic level. I therefore table a new amendment calling for the intervention of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I hope that this time you will respond positively. As my group leader said earlier: "Five minutes of political courage". I don't think it's asking too much in a case like this. Second important conclusion: the complicity of former Speaker MR of the Senate, Armand De Decker, has been clearly demonstrated. With the prestige of his former position, Mr. De Decker has in fact preferred to use and serve the financial interests of Sarkozy's France, rather than preserve the independence of Belgian justice. Let us imagine for a moment that the Belgian government secretly recruits a former president of the French assembly to intervene in a case dealt with by the French justice system. I think the indignation would have been total in Hexagon, with good reason. In this case, Mr. De Decker behaved like a barbouze and not as a minister of state! As far as the criminal aspect of the facts is concerned, it is not for Parliament but for the judiciary to clarify the exact role played by Mr. De Decker, in particular with regard to the payment of EUR 25 000 to the association of one of the judges involved in the handling of the Chodiev case. On these aspects, justice must be allowed to work. On the other hand, from a political and ethical point of view, it is up to Parliament to say that the attitude of the former Speaker of the Senate is unworthy and that, in the future, the ethical rules governing the work of parliamentarians must be strengthened. The third important conclusion concerns the work of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office and the Brussels General Prosecutor's Office. I find it disturbing that they decided to conclude a transaction at an incredible speed, without waiting for the restorative law. In addition, I find it particularly disturbing that the prosecution has demonstrated legal engineering by applying article 21ter of the Code of Criminal Procedure, with the sole aim of not waiting for the restorative law, as the House, the Senate and the Minister wanted. In conclusion, these events demonstrate the pitfalls of the criminal transaction mechanism. Justice does not have the human and material resources to deal promptly and seriously with complex cases of serious fraud. The use of the criminal transaction is, in this respect, a palliative, justified by the Public Prosecutor's Office as an emergency measure in order to avoid the statute of limitations and not as a coherent and thoughtful prosecution policy. I would add that entering into criminal transactions with individuals or organisations that have almost unlimited financial means, and often acquired fraudulently, as in the case of Chodiev et al., is not such as to prevent recidivism, as the sums collected are ridiculous in relation to the assets of the defendants and the benefits they derive from their manoeuvres. In order to deal with these pitfalls, we propose to allow the licensing judge to learn about the negotiations between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the litigants prior to the conclusion of criminal transactions. We also submit a recommendation to exclude cases of serious financial crime from the scope of the Criminal Transaction Act. This means that justice must always deal decisively with the great financial crime that the perpetrators, if not, could handle with a transaction, which could lead to recidivism in the head of organizations or individuals with significant financial means. Ladies and gentlemen, in 16 months of work, we have shown that Kazakhgate, contrary to what Armand De Decker claims, is not a fantasy. We have also demonstrated that our democracy is not sufficiently protected against the forces of money. These forces of money can take many faces. We have seen that Antwerp diamondmakers have engaged in incredible lobbying to obtain tailor-made solutions to their legal problems. We have seen that commercial contracts can be used to practice economic blackmail, so that billionaires escape the normal course of justice. We have seen that these same billionaires are in a position to debaucher a former Speaker of the Senate to provide interventions to the Minister of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Finally, we have seen that these billionaires can negotiate the most complete opacity with the prosecution, to put an end to the prosecution, against the payment of a large sum of money for the small citizen, but which is a pecadille for them. In the face of all these observations made during 16 months of work, our duty is to strengthen our democracy. Unfortunately, the final report is not up to date, which is why we are again tabling a series of amendments. I hope that my colleagues in the majority will be able to emerge from the defensive attitude they have adopted in recent weeks to draw the real lessons from the work of our committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u27	Mr. President, "the MR on all floors." With this quotation from our chairman as an introduction, I think everything has been said about the climate in which the Kazakhgate Committee worked for 16 months. Everything was said about the political nature of this committee of inquiry, which was the alibi, for some Commissioners, to maintain a climate of suspicion towards some members of the MR and, more particularly, our Foreign Minister. It was an opportunity to dump in the media, in a shameful way, counter-truths and try to defile the MR in its entirety. In this respect, I agree with Mrs De Wit's remarks, first of all with regard to our colleague Francis Delperée, to which the MR obviously apologises, but also with regard to the biased attitude of the chairman of this committee. A detestable climate has been fed as work progresses. MRs were accused of not communicating their e-mails. However, the MR is the party that has communicated the most documents in the course of the work of this commission. Some Members have worked hard to plan off-the-spot hearings that could splinter the MR. I am thinking in particular of this episode concerning Jean-Claude Fontinoy, whose hearings focused on events which occurred largely after the criminal transaction. The MR was accused of brakering Mr. Reynders' early hearing. However, the committee had decided by consensus, on the advice of the chairman, that all ministers would be heard at the end of the day, so that they could submit all the questions raised by the proceedings. Later, some of the opposition returned its jacket and criticized the majority for not agreeing to postponing the ministers' hearings to September 2017 and for forcing the commission to work at the forcing to close the hearings on July 21, 2017. It was necessary, however, for the committee to have a global vision and use the parliamentary truce to digest the information gathered in order to resume the hard work from the start. I obviously go over the leaks always targeted at charge which obviously put oil on the fire. I would like to say that Mr Massin has very faithfully reported the facts which have been studied by this committee. I congratulate him on his intellectual honesty. I obviously do not share the recommendations or conclusions. We agree and we can discuss it, but the way in which Mr. Massin recalled all the facts is of total intellectual honesty. I wanted to say it here. As far as the MR is concerned, this commission of inquiry has ultimately only put into perspective the actions of a member of the party, Mr. De Decker, who was already prosecuted by the courts in this matter. Nothing else! Mr Gilkinet, on television channels, argued that the report was too careful in view of the facts that Mr Gilkinet had. De Decker committed. However, the report clearly condemns Mr. De Decker! There's no wood tongue. The MR has played the fullest transparency, but the Commission is not a judge and it is happy when we see how some Commissioners have investigated the case, without objectivity. It is now up to the judiciary to decide in a fair trial on the facts that fall within the scope of criminal law. Each has its own role within the limits of its constitutional prerogatives! All for this! No! Fortunately, the committee highlighted the real role played by Mr. Kubla in the acquisition of the nationality of his neighbour, Mr. Chodiev. A neighbor doesn't choose himself. From this famous letter from Mr Kubla in the first part, we learned, but I think that here, in all the political groups, we already knew, these letters were very frequent at the time that they came from politicians, associations, priests, embassies. Mr. Eerdekens told us, amused, the champion of this type of mail. Do you know who that was? Anne-Marie Lizin! In any event, Part 1 of this report, which was unanimously voted on, notes that this letter could not have had any influence on the outcome of Mr Chodiev's naturalisation dossier. Indeed, the games were made. The four opinions required to obtain naturalization were favourable and according to the jurisprudence of the Naturalizations Commission of the time, naturalization was granted ex officio. The Naturalization Service had already issued a favourable opinion when Mr. Kubla's mail was sent. As far as the first conclusion is concerned, there was no MR on the first floor of Kazakhgate! What about the role played by Mr Reynders? He was one of Kazakhgate's attention centers following the writings and comments of some, including Mr. des Rosaies, who claimed that the criminal transaction had been applied to the Chodiev case through his cousin Armand De Decker, who allegedly raised awareness among the Ministers of Justice, Finance and Foreign Affairs, Messrs. From Clerck, Reynders and Vanackere. These are the famous writings that are, as we know, completely farfelus and which are at the base of Kazakhgate. How can these documents be taken seriously? All the ministers mentioned categorically deny that they were influenced by Mr. De Decker. Only Mr. De Clerck had contact with Mr. De Decker and that, while the legislative amendment as it will be voted was already in the pipeline. The contact had no influence on the passing of the law since Mr. De Decker was firmly evicted by Mr. From Clerck. By the way, let's remember that Mr. De Decker denied being M. des Rosaies' cousin. Mr. des Rosaies still writes in these documents that the lawyer he proposed, Ms. Degoul, drafted the Criminal Transaction Act. That's all! This is ridiculous! He added that it was the Minister of Justice and the King's prosecutor who had asked Ms. Degoul to draft the law. I'm going through with some of the best. As his former employer Mr. Mazery sums up, Mr. des Rosaies is able to say things that are wrong in order to get screwed up. He has a huge need for recognition. The committee has not been able to hear this "nuclear reactor" as an expression of one of my colleagues. It would have been interesting to know whether his statements were intended to be mossed, whether it was the fruits of his mythomania or whether it was information that was actually communicated to him and, if so, by whom. In any event, one positive thing that emerged from this committee was to clarify how the criminal transaction came back to the agenda in 2011. It is a return to the vague memories for some and clear for others: many documents of the time, notes to ministers, meeting briefs, very interesting e-mail exchanges. This is how the puzzle is reconstructed. Much has been said about the term "coupling" between the file "removing bank secrecy" and that of the criminal transaction. Can we talk about a coupling in 2009? Or should we wait until January 31, 2011 to be able to talk about coupling? For my part, I note that the only document of the time in the possession of the commission is a debriefing note drawn up by Mrs Hildegarde Penne in 2010, judicial adviser, to his Minister Mr. From Clerck. It states that the criminal transaction file was linked by the PS to bank secrecy following the 2009 budget conclave. In any event, linkage or otherwise, these two files are linked long before January 31, 2011. As Mr Clerfayt has explained, of which, I suppose, no one here is questioning the floor, these issues are also linked to issues of political balance. A PS advisor will say that the criminal transaction is the dada of the right; the lifting of bank secrecy, that of the left. They are linked for pragmatic reasons. If bank secrecy is lifted, it is necessary to provide for this measure so that the courts are not drowned. Finally, these files are linked for budgetary reasons. Mr. Clerfayt explained that at each budget conclave, these two files returned to the table. But it is not only Mr. Clerfayt who indicates that these two files are linked. There is also Mrs Rutten, Mrs Van Cauter, Mrs Milquet, Mrs Onkelinx who will say, for her part, that in her memory, the Liberals return with the criminal transaction in each fiscal year to balance the budget. Why is the case coming back in 2011? Because the momentum is here. In 2011, as a result of pressure from the OECD, the Minister of Finance was required to introduce the lifting of international banking secrecy into the various provisions of the law. However, in the House's Finance Committee, the PS, sp.a, Ecolo and cdH groups are pressuring to go further. They want an end to internal banking secrecy. They refuse to limit themselves to the lifting of international banking secrecy. However, we are in day-to-day business and the risk of an alternative majority in a government is ubiquitous. Having to assume the lifting of bank secrecy, to which we did not hold, and wishing to master its implementation, the MR therefore puts the criminal transaction file on the table on January 31, 2011, which will serve as an element of negotiation with the CD&V and the Open Vld, both depositaries of a bill on the same subject. As Mrs Milquet points out, these were two long-known political demands, as they often were, in a desire for a conventional compromise, which was finalized in a political agreement which seemed to us quite logical and classic. Ms Milquet added: "There was no surprise, given the systematic links between the two cases and the problem of combating tax and social fraud." It's a perfectly classic coupling. Exchanges of e-mails and notes from different cabinets are consistent; they allow us to understand political tactics and, in delicate cases, to reach compromises that would satisfy each party. The fact that the momentum which led to the adoption of the amendment to the legislation on the criminal transaction corresponds to the moment when the case of MM. Chodiev et al. is sent back to correctional is a coincidence. The MR has no control over the timing of the OECD peer review.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u28	Mr. Clarinval, it's a coincidence. This is finally the conclusion of your operation. Finally, we can sum up this Kazakhgate commission to Operation "Saving Private Reynders". Maybe we should say "General Reynders." You're saying the commission cleared Reynders. But who launders Reynders in the commission? Its advisers, its relatives, its friends or other politicians who stand by the barbichette because some have problems on the issue of diamonds. Is it a coincidence that Armand De Decker works in the Chodiev file, works for a certain Nicolas Sarkozy, has as great friend Didier Reynders, just like Nicolas Sarkozy and just as we have to save Chodiev, the same Didier Reynders introduces the criminal transaction into this bargaining? Right at that time! He dares to claim and that is what is strong, that he is not aware that he is playing a Chodiev affair. He is close to Sarkozy and De Decker but he completely ignores that there is a Chodiev case that runs behind the criminal transaction that he himself introduces. Who do you want to make believe that, Mr. Clarinval?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u29	It is a pity, Mr Van Hees, that you did not participate in the work of our committee. You didn't attend any meetings. You don't know anything. You're giving away nonsense and slogans, because that's it, slogans! You're continuing the conspiracy theory. You know, this kind of theory isn't serious. Here, you're not aware of the file. You did not participate in the work and you allow yourself to cast names of people in pasture. I think you should apologize, Mr. Van Hees, for this infamy. Now, let me continue!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u30	Mr Clarinval, I give the floor to Mr. Van Hees for two minutes. Indeed, it is interesting to have interruptions but it is necessary to limit itself to one or two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u31	I think that's a strong answer, Mr. Clarinval! First of all, you're telling me that I had to be there, but who didn't want the PTB and the small groups to be there? It's you! You voted against our presence. So it is still strong after reproaching us for our absence when you voted for it! I read the report! Secondly, you are using this formula not to answer me. I asked you a real question. Is it possible that Didier Reynders was not aware of the Chodiev case that was going on behind the criminal transaction, given his ties with Nicolas Sarkozy and Armand De Decker? You haven't answered my question!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u32	The answer is in the report. The report has clearly responded to this. That's not true. Your insinuations are really outrageous, Mr. Van Hees. That is what is shameful. If you'd read the report, you'd have that answer. You keep getting people dirty. It's really outrageous! I'm asking for an apology from you! And let me continue because we are not going to continue to debate this issue! The MR has no control over the timing of an OECD peer review – Mr. Van Hees will be able to notice it like I did. We are not yet in a position to influence the OECD! Nor has the MR chosen the time when certain political groups are prepared to resort to alternative majorities in a current government in order to demand that proposals on the lifting of bank secrecy be put forward. Mr Gilkinet may say that Mr Reynders was not afraid of OECD pressure. He was neither a member of the government nor a Finance Advisor in a cabinet. The hearings were clear and the OECD pressure was real. There was a fear of being on the grey list. Prime Minister Leterme's tax advisor gave the commission the administrative letters that were alarmist. It is always easy a posteriori to repeat the story!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u33	Mr. Clarinval, I confirm that at the time I was not a member of Mr. Reynders' government or cabinet. On the other hand, I was already an assiduous parliamentarian and member of the Finance Committee, very interested in the question of lifting bank secrecy. You yourself said that we, like other political groups, had tabled bills calling for the lifting of internal banking secrecy. I have never felt, I confess, that Mr Reynders was very supportive of the idea, let alone that of including in the principle of the lifting of internal banking secrecy the establishment of a central register of accounts, a tool par excellence that can make the lifting of bank secrecy effective. I was pleased with his change of mind in March, and I was rather surprised. As a natural positive one, I have taken this good news and we have voted for the amendments concerned. On the other hand, we strongly opposed the principle of criminal transaction. We didn't know, at the time, why she presented herself. We were thinking about the diamond sector. Today I have a slightly different view of the case. But don't deny me a certain vision of the question from Mr Reynders' point of view on bank secrecy! In fact, he and his collaborators later said: it was not the thing that enchanted him the most. To each his political positions! We are seeking and proud of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u34	I didn't say that. The MR was not in favour of lifting bank secrecy. Mr. Reynders wasn't either. There is no equivocality. What I said earlier was that you seemed to underestimate the OECD's pressure. But it existed. It is true that, as you were not in the government, you could not know how important this pressure was. It should also be noted that the first linkage between the lifting of bank secrecy and the criminal transaction is carried out in response to the proposals PS, sp.a, Ecolo and cdH on the lifting of bank secrecy by the firm Clerfayt, on 20 January 2011, in the bill MR and Vld. Mr Clerfayt said in committee that this linkage was justified by the search for partners to advance his vision of bank secrecy. He claimed that he had never been asked to worry about the Chodiev case. The extension of the criminal transaction incorporated in the bill, moreover, did not apply to crimes and was therefore not applicable to the Chodiev case. Mr. Massin quite rightly reminded him. As for the choice of the text concretizing the criminal transaction in the amendment to the Various Provisions Act, according to Ms. Van Cauter's testimony, it was the CD&V that insisted that the choice should be the text of Mr. Verherstraeten's bill, the argument being that it was a text of the law firm in which the College of Attorneys General had participated. I would remind you that when this law is passed, it still has to be applied by the judiciary. It is not a personal law, as it is suggested, but a general law. The Prosecutor's Office decides independently on the appropriateness of its application to specific cases. To conclude the second part of our work, I would simply say that there is also no MR on the second floor of Kazakhgate. When I hear some Commissioners – this is the case with Mr. Van Hees – say now on the air that Mr Reynders is not whitewashed, it is either intellectual dishonesty, or that they have not heard the same hearings or read the report. These hearings were conducted in a non-suspecto tempore. I hope that it is by distraction that they continue to say that. In any case, I am astonished that, without charge, we come to demand negative evidence: "Prove to me that Reynders did not talk about the criminal transaction with Mrs Degoul when he met her about the Bemba case!" Now we're there after the transaction! How do you want to prove we didn't do something? "Prove me that Mr. De Decker didn't approach Mr. Reynders about the criminal transaction! Prove to me that when he was inducted Armagnac Musketeer, as well as MM. Wathelet and Freddy Thielemans, they didn't discuss it with Mr. Aymeri de Montesquiou!" These negative evidences are all confessions of weakness, as they are the last clues that some think they will find in this file. In any case, they are groundless and aim to hide the total absence of load elements. What about France's intervention in this case? All parties, including the MR, find it unacceptable that Kazakhstan did not veto Kazakhstan when the latter told it that it would be good for their commercial relations to have the prosecution of Chodiev et al. suspended or stopped. However, proposing a lawyer and monitoring the progress of a judicial case does not constitute interference in the internal affairs of a State. This is a private file. We categorically disagree with this approach, this interference by France, but we cannot use the notion of public law of "interference" in this case. Let us make it clear that the law has not been amended at the request of France in favour of Mr Chodiev. Besides, Mr. De Wolf, the Advocate General in charge of the case, stated that he did not understand these insinuations, since on 9 March 2011 – notification of 3 February of the same year – when he discussed it with Chodiev et al.'s lawyers, the criminal transaction was never mentioned. Negotiations on the Act begin on 5 May 2011, after the final vote of the Act in Parliament. Should the Attorney-General's Office, which did not wait until the restorative law came into force, be rejected in order to conclude this transaction? The Attorney-General's Office is of the opinion that it does not. Dura lex, sed lex. Once a law comes into force, it escapes legislative power and can be applied by the judiciary. For me, clearly, this justification is without appeal. Mr. Wolf concludes that the law was not created for Patokh Chodiev but that he benefited from it. This case will have brought back 22 million euros to the State, which is unexpected for a case for which the reasonable period of time was exceeded and which was prescribed two years later. Should the criminal transaction be applied to the case of major tax fraud? That is the crux of the problem for some Commissioners. But the opportunity to keep the criminal transaction in our legislative arsenal was not the subject of the committee of inquiry. He was still pleased that such a decision was not taken on the basis of two specific dossiers. Unfortunately, we had to find that some did not know how to do the part between this ideological debate in which left-right cleavage has always existed and the analysis of the objective elements of Kazakhgate. In conclusion, in the third part of Kazakhgate, we find an MR, that's right, Mr. De Decker but no other member of the MR is present on any of the floors of this case. There is no theory of great conspiracy. He is an isolated actor whose attitude was unacceptable. Sanctions will have to be taken. There are still outstanding issues. How Mr. Has De Decker become aware of the amendment to the Act? I share this question. How have the fees of the various lawyers, if they prove to be correct, been justified with Mr. Chodiev? What was the objective of Mr. De Decker's request that DCRI collaborate with Mr. Van de Weghe? Why was an amount paid by Ms. Degoul to Mr. Godbille at the request of Mr. De Decker? These questions are likely to be clarified in the context of the judicial investigation. Until then, let's stop writing novels, scaffolding hypotheses on the basis of piecemeal information! This renders the serious work of our committee unimpaired. On the contrary, let us remain objective and await the verdict of the judicial investigation! Mr President, I come to the end of my speech in this particularly difficult debate which has occupied our parliamentary work for almost 16 months. At the time of the report, I have already thanked the services, the secretariat, the translators and our staff who have done a remarkable job on this dossier. I wanted to say it again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking our services for the translation work and, in particular, our committee secretariat, Catharina Offeciers and Karin Huybens, who have been very patient and very active in supporting our committee, as well as our staff, of all the parties, who have finally contributed very hard to the report, because that was also very much to our committee. We have set up the committee of inquiry in response to reports in the media about the possible role of Armand De Decker in the implementation of the law on friendly settlement. The Committee of Inquiry was a special committee of inquiry, a special committee of inquiry. Other committees of inquiry have already dealt with matters such as the attacks, Fortis, Dutroux or Sabena. Our committee of inquiry focused on the drafting of a law. As far as I know, that's the first time. Our committee of inquiry was supposed to investigate how Members of Parliament act, gather information and take initiatives. Everyone does that their way. Often it is done on the basis of a memorandum, personal contacts, service or sympathy or antipathy for a particular sector or group. Lobbying is part of that. That is why that was also the focus of our committee of inquiry, with all the difficulties that had to be done. I am thinking of groups that are regularly defended here. Whether it concerns cyclists, footballers, the unemployed, people with disabilities, e-commerce or any other economic sector, MEPs regularly take an initiative for certain groups, but always with the general interest in mind; that is what we are assuming. That means that the functioning of Members of Parliament had to be examined. Indeed, in 2011, a majority of the members of the Chamber ruled on the law on the amicable settlement and thus also took a position for or against the law. In the meantime, political positions have not changed either. That made the committee and its mission particularly delicate. That also made the composition of the committee difficult. Several people who had participated in the debate on the law stated that they would not take part in the work because this would make matters more difficult. Mr Delpérée was avenged, despite the fact that there was no constitutional objection to his presence or participation. Because it was such a special committee, we also left with a false start. There were chaotic rounds of voting and an opinion from the Conference of Presidents. In the end, Mr Delpérée did not become chairman, but the committee chairman went to Mr Van der Maelen. I also share the appreciation of my fellow Members. This was chaotic and we had to vote several times. I don't need to repeat what happened. The committee is also particularly concerned that the report was almost entirely written by our staff and not, as is normally the case, by the experts. The long duration of the Committee of Inquiry was certainly not conducive to their availability all the time, nor the style of the committee, with which they also occasionally struggled. The committee was established at the end of 2016, five years after the creation of the law. That too was a handicap for our committee. Witnesses were questioned about facts from five years before. Some could base their testimonies on emails, reports, notes. Others had to rely on their memories. I understand that some witnesses don't remember everything. Many will have been honest and in good faith, others will have thought that what doesn't know doesn't matter. Sometimes I think they were right. Those who did provide a lot of information, such as CD&V employees, who did keep notes, were heavily attacked because they might have said things wrong or otherwise. Perhaps it would have been easier for some people not to remember things, even if that would have been a handicap for our committee. Moreover, as is often the case, the Committee of Inquiry ran along with a judicial investigation. This does not make this clear, because we wanted to avoid obstructing the judicial investigation. The fact that Mr De Decker, the subject of the judicial inquiry, read in committee a statement which was very tendentious, unjust and incorrect and did not want to answer any questions shows the limitations of a committee of inquiry. I would like to make the comparison with another committee of inquiry of which I was a member, namely the Fortis Committee. Years later I read in the book of investigative journalist Van den Eynde that the discussion there was actually provoked in connection with possible interference and non-respect for the separation of powers. Indeed, the judicial investigation and not the committee of inquiry showed that everything was to lead to a problem in the judiciary, namely discussions between magistrates of the 18th Chamber, who had different views and fought that way. In short, a completely different story emerged from the Committee of Inquiry than from the judicial investigation. I am afraid of a repeat of the Kazachgate Committee of Inquiry. Our committee was also special because of its chairman and the way he took up his role. I expect a chairman to be objective, correct and honest and lead the committee in this way. I will not repeat the facts to which my fellow Members have referred, but I do think that there is something or something that can be very hard on. The President knows that his role must be played in a very objective manner and that his and his opponents must be brought to justice and that his and his opponents must be made to draw their conclusions. If we cannot do that, we must draw our own conclusions. Using a Presidency to get its own agenda right and to push through its own agenda dissipates the functioning and credibility of a committee. It also makes it difficult to operate, because everyone in such a climate is braced. I regret that and do not think it should be repeated. I shall return to the functioning of the committee. It has just been said: 177 witnesses we have heard; 171 public hearings and 31 hearings behind closed doors. All hearings were concluded before the summer. It has just been referred to that there were accusations of blackmail and cover-up. It was feared that the Tour de France would receive more attention than the Committee of Inquiry. I think we've heard all the witnesses we wanted to hear. The questioning of the ministers, for which we thought we needed a great deal of time, eventually went faster than expected. What do I remember from the committee work? I shall begin with the chapter on Belgian nationality. Discussions on nationality legislation had been held a long time ago. In any case, we could conclude that information was misjudged and delivered late and that there were some dysfunctions. That is why, like the Committee of Inquiry into the terrorist attacks, the recommendations unanimously advocate the creation of a crossroads bank and better organisation of access to information and its distribution between the public prosecutors. With regard to the emergence and the debate on the amicable settlement of legislation, we have found that, unfortunately, consensus on Parts II and III proved impossible. However, we are convinced that no tuxedo gun was found in this whole story. There are a number of things that we were all very surprised about. One of these elements is Mr Armand De Decker's démarches. On the one hand, there is the demarche to the political world. Among other things, he, as President of the Senate, will go to former Minister of Justice, Mr Stefaan De Clerck. He also spoke to someone during the plenary session, but apparently in the capacity of a lawyer. The Minister has a conversation with him and says that he does not go along with it, but is, of course, 'contaminated' in this way, if I may put it that way. That is deontologically unacceptable. I refer to the statements made by Mr Stefaan De Clerck on the discussion he had at the time. He is not aware in advance of those demarches by Mr De Decker. He also assumes that it was a file that the prosecutor is working on and he does not want to infect the magistrates with it either. Mr De Clerk comes from the Forti period, he talks about the separation of powers and does not intervene. There was also Mr De Decker's démarche to the court on 18 February, which was referred to earlier. There he goes to Mr. Patrick De Wolf, he wears his gown and introduces himself as a lawyer. If a lawyer says he's a client's attorney, it won't be checked. That's accepted, that's the rule. But it turns out that Mr De Decker is nowhere to be found in the procedural documents. That too goes against the deontology that we can expect from Members of Parliament. He was also sent to the cabinet of the Minister of Justice. I still hear the story of the head of the cabinet, colleagues, who said that their mouths were falling open, because a lawyer and Senate chairman repeatedly insisted on intervention in a private matter. They couldn't. Armand De Decker also referred to the Élysée. I refer to the documents in the report in which they say that they thought that was a bit bizarre and that they actually laughed a bit that he came to them with the support of the Élysée. That story wasn't credible to them. That is also one of the reasons why it was not given any more importance or that there was no further communication around it. Has Mr De Decker's lobbying work, which can certainly have questions and which one can certainly say very clearly that it cannot be deontologically, actually affected the vote in 2011? We don't think that's true. We believe that this has not affected the legislative process. One of the most hallucinating cases I've ever found, perhaps it has to do with my own naivety, the testimony of Claude Guéant. I did not really go along with the idea that France was interested in the legislation that is being discussed in Belgium. I've been looking at Guéant's statement, a former minister in the French government. He finally said that an effective law team was set up in France for Mr Chodiev. He also referred to the fine work that could happen in order to stop a prosecution. I found that fact in our committee hallucinating. For colleagues, too, it has probably been one of the most captivating moments. However, has this effectively led to a different vote and a different way of achieving the legislation? That's another question. Really interfering in Belgian law or an ongoing Belgian judicial investigation is of course reprehensible. We do not know how far they have gone. That, too, should be possible for a judicial investigation to be carried out. I've talked about the law in detail in the coverage. There are two parts in that. On the one hand, there is a whole past in which we want to organise an extended friendly settlement. Work is being done in different ways. This eventually falls silent and is then triggered by the whole debate on banking secrecy legislation. It was also referred to earlier. The MR has made that link, but several other parties have also clearly said that the two dossiers are, as it were, related. Different people, from different parties, from both the right and left wings, can score. In addition, they can realise more together. On the other hand, there is the whole procedure in the Chamber, the fast vote and so on. I understand that an outsider doesn't always understand this. It was during a period of ongoing business. It all happened chaotically and alternative coalitions were closed. Laws have been passed that could not have been passed in a simple majority. It is true that it has been chaotic, that it has gone unorderly, that it has gone off with hordes and bumps, but that too is happening today in legislative processes. Each party has proposals that have been pending for years and come back to life because something is happening or because they can be linked to another file. We do not believe that there have been any wrongdoings in this area either. It has also been made very clear about the closed transactions that they have not been carried out in an illegal or wrong way. There, too, we recommended that uniform registration should be carried out. There are other recommendations as well, but I do not go into everything to avoid repeating myself. The conclusion is that no tuxedo gun was found. We know there's another investigation going on and there's no negative evidence. Our conclusion is also that our people here, on these banks, have not been consciously involved in supporting some sort of lobby. If there is any doubt, I hope it can be brought forward by the judicial investigation. I hope that after this committee we will stop looking for all kinds of traces which cannot be made clear on the basis of what we have established in the committee of inquiry. So I look forward with you to the results of the judicial investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-plenair-ip224x.u36	Colleagues, as announced, we are going to take a 15-minute break for technical reasons. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 25 April 2018 at 7.40 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Wednesday 25 April 2018 at 19.40 a.m.
