ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u1	Mr President, Mr Minister, unfortunately, as we were presuming, the last legislative reform of reprographic rights was not going to be painless for artists, but was going to be in favour of multinational photocopier manufacturers. Last November, it was reported in the press that Reprobel estimated his shortfall to be several million euros, more than half of his annual income! You also transferred part of the question to Auvibel with regard to reproductions in the family circle, although this perception was not a problem. You have launched a study to assess the harm suffered by authors and publishers. But some are already concerned about the methodology used by the consulted company, whose objectivity must be certain when this methodology is applied. Minister, do you confirm a current shortfall for Reprobel? What is your estimate? Does the situation call for corrective measures? In view of this loss of profits, should the system not be reviewed to consider a fairer distribution of remuneration, which is not only the responsibility of the most visible users, but also of the manufacturers of the machinery, as the previous law allowed? In view of the State's obligation to achieve results in this area, as several Belgian and Dutch cases have shown, when, for example, will you be able to reactivate the authors' remuneration for reproductions in the family circle? Do you not think that publishers should also be compensated when your law omits it? Minister, do you ensure that the methodology defined by the body responsible for carrying out the study presents all the guarantees of objectivity and thus allows to produce results consistent with the reality of the reproductions performed? When do you expect these results? Isn't there some urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lalieux, as far as your first question is concerned, it is still far too early to assess and conclude that there would be a loss of profits. Perceptions for 2016 and 2017 are not yet closed. It is true that, in view of the teachings of HP v. Reprobel, a clearer distinction was made between exceptions for reprography, private copying and for teaching and scientific research. This change will therefore have to be taken into account in order to make a correct comparison. If a change is already visible in revenues, they will certainly not be halved. It should also be recalled that the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the HP v. Reprobel case wrongly or correctly invoked an overcompensation in the context of the collection which involved both flat-rate remuneration and proportional remuneration. As I have just indicated, it is not established that there is currently a loss of profits for Reprobel. Secondly, the introduction of a flat rate remuneration is not ideal given the requirements laid down by the European Court of Justice in HP v Reprobel. The reimbursement and/or exemption mechanisms imposed by the Court are complicated to put in place and would be a source of administrative burdens and additional costs for the debtors of remuneration for reprography. Legislative and technical developments have taken place in recent years concerning the private copying exception. A discussion will be held with interested circles next year in order to determine the damage suffered by the authors as a result of copies of literary works made in the family circle and possibly to provide for a change in remuneration. The results of the study launched by the SPF Economy will also be an important element in this context. The study is carried out by an independent study office and is almost finalized. The methodology used has been consulted by the relevant advisory commissions and the results obtained will also be presented and discussed in the committees. I intend to present to the Council of Ministers, in the first half of 2018, new tariffs based on this independent study, as part of the exception for reprography.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u3	Maybe it's too early. Nevertheless, Minister, it seems to me that Reprobel knows better how to calculate the loss of profits than you do. It's 2018. Your answer may not have been updated as the question has already been tabled in 2017. I think they can already have the 2016 figures. You know very well that there were alternatives to your bill. We've had enough of this. It's always the administrative burden for the biggest people that bothers you. Again, you defend the multinationals, not the authors. Compared to legislative developments, you say that the discussion will take place "next year". Was your answer written in 2017 or 2018? The question was tabled in 2017. Are you talking about 2019 or 2018? I don't know when your staff wrote the answer. I tabled the question in November. Is it this year that you're going to work on it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u4	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u5	You talked about next year. But as the question was introduced in 2017, I don't know if you're talking about 2019 or 2018. I just want to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u6	(...) I gave the timing to organise a first debate in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u7	So it's the first half of 2018. Minister, in total, I hope that you will correct all these laws, because, once again, there is a loss of profits. In addition to reproduction in family circles, you should also review the law you have amended regarding rights related to reprography.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u8	Mr Calomne is not here. His question No. 22755 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u9	Minister, the issue of direct injection is not new. The demands of authors and performers who demand fair remuneration for their performances, too. Last May, I asked you about the need to clarify the concept of direct injection. At the time, an IP Council opinion was to be published on the issue. You then undertook to return, after the publication of this opinion and before the end of this year, with a bill that would respond to the legal uncertainties raised in particular by the judgment of the Court of Cassation of 30 September 2016. The issue is not just technical-legal, since several million euros of remuneration for authors and performers are at stake. Meanwhile, Playright, a society managing the rights of performers, denounced a desire in your leader to exempt the liberal professions from paying fair remuneration for the exploitation of works. This would represent a shortfall of EUR 1 million per year. It would add to this a plan to go back to a acquis of the previous legislature: the incessibility of fair remuneration for the actors. This incessibility was necessary since, given the weak position of the interpreters, their rights were too often transferred contractually, which prevented a balanced distribution. Such a measure would deprive actors of several million euros per year. If they confirm themselves, these measures, together with the reforms already made to the right of reproduction and private copying, will make this federal government – and you in particular, Minister, since you hold the pen – the greatest fosseur of artistic creation that has ever been known. Neutral reforms for the state budget, but to the benefit of enterprises that enrich cultural creation. Minister, do you intend to introduce a bill on the concept of direct injection for the transmission of works by cable? If I'm well informed, there's one in preparation. Is it true that you intend to exempt the professions from the payment of fair remuneration for performers? Do you intend to amend articles XI.211 and XI.225 of the Code of Economic Law, which guarantee the incessibility of rights to equitable remuneration for performers? What impact will these different measures have on the loss of profits of authors and performers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u10	I was indeed aware of the campaign launched by Playright in December, in which the initiators made a number of comments. Secondly, with regard to fair remuneration, in 2017 we had an intense consultation with the various parties concerned, including Playright. As an illustration, let me mention a few elements. The new decree provides for a proportional sanction mechanism. Thus, under the old rules, in case of late declaration, the youth associations had to pay an increase of 125 euros. This time, below the basic amount of EUR 25 for example, the new regulation provides for temporary activities, an increase of 15%, or a minimum penalty of EUR 35 in the event of late reporting, and a minimum of EUR 75 when no declaration has been made. It is also intended that the cost of a controller may be passed on. With the exception of annual indexation, tariffs for the various sectors have not been changed. As is already the case for copyrights, a declaration obligation was introduced for equitable remuneration, which was a long time ago an application by performing artists which is taken into account in the new Royal Decree. As far as the professions are concerned, and contrary to what has been communicated, no overall exemption from fair remuneration has been provided. It has only been stipulated, as the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union requires, what criteria must be met in order to be subject to fair remuneration. This regime had already been proposed by my predecessor and has now been implemented. From 2018, performers will be able to benefit from the perception of neighbouring rights for the public broadcasting of music within companies. For example, they will receive 50% of the collection of neighbouring rights, which in 2016 amounted to approximately EUR 3.4 million. As a result of the new regulation, public institutions will also be required to pay fair remuneration, this amount will increase further significantly in 2018. The impact of this and other measures on the position of artists, performers and performers is certainly not negative, on the contrary. If it turns out that the perceptions of fair remuneration have declined sharply, in 2019 I will carry out a tariff assessment, which I communicated to the representatives of the performers, including Playright, during a consultation on January 10 last, on the above-mentioned regulation. As far as the third question is concerned, some reforms are needed in the audiovisual sector for greater legal clarity. The various initiatives have been the subject of considerable consultation. The most recent consultation took place on 9 March 2018, within the framework of the Audiovisual Concertation Committee. The bill that I will shortly be presenting to the government includes a number of aspects: on the one hand, a solution is offered to the problem created by the "direct injection" technique, which will allow a balanced, legally valid and lasting solution to the copyright and related rights concerned, which will put an end to legal and economic uncertainty; on the other hand, through this preliminary bill, the status of these artists, performers in the audiovisual sector will be greatly improved. The principle of proportional remuneration is concrete. The obligations of transparency for producers vis-à-vis the actors are introduced and if a production acquires much success, the artist, performer or performer will also benefit from this success. In addition, through the Audiovisual Concertation Committee, a possibility is offered to conclude collective agreements on working conditions and related remuneration between the organisations representing the performers and the producers. These measures allow performing artists to receive better remuneration in the future for their hard work. With regard to your fourth question, there is currently no concrete project to amend articles XI.211 and/or IX.224 of the Code of Economic Law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will read your long answer to my specific questions with rested head. Your project will not introduce a pure exclusive right?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u12	I gave the answer, Mrs. Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u13	I will read the answer and come back to you with more specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u14	Mr President, this was a December issue and I believe that an agreement has been reached since then. Minister, the question was about the single price of the book at bicultural outlets in Brussels. The Flemish Community and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation have each adopted decrees to impose this single book price. These decrees are aimed in particular at helping independent booksellers, who have for years been confronted with the unfair competition of large areas, thus preserving the plurality of sales channels and literary creation. However, in Brussels, the implementation of the decrees is problematic. It was a question of not seeing any inconsistencies in Brussels territory and it would appear that a cooperation agreement has been signed. Minister, what about this cooperation agreement? When will it be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u15	Mr Minister, my question dates from 4 January and, on that date, the information came back to us that you were opposed to this cooperation agreement allowing the regulation of the price of books – the single price of books – to the benefit of the cultural diversity and the survival of the economic actors that are the booksellers. In Flanders, for more than ten years, a system regulating the price of books has been in place. The Wallonia-Brussels Federation is only in the process of implementing a decree on the subject. Mr Minister, in your opinion, there would have been no respect for the rules of free competition. Since then, however, we have learned that this cooperation agreement will be signed with your consent. What are the arguments that led to this positive position, which I appreciate? Can you give us more concrete information on its entry into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u16	Colleagues, I'll be brief. Earlier this year, I held a meeting with the other ministers responsible at the regional level and we reached an agreement, which is good news. Now this agreement must be signed by the federal government and that of the two Communities concerned and then submitted to the Concerted Committee. In order to enter into force, the agreement will then have to be approved by a federal law and by decrees of the Communities concerned. Finally, it will be published at the Moniteur belge. In practical terms, this cooperation agreement means that for bicultural bookstores in the Brussels-Capital Region, the Flemish regulation will apply to books in the Dutch language and for books in French, the decree of the French Community will apply. We believe that the single price of the book in the Brussels-Capital Region will be effective in early 2019. There is therefore an agreement, we have worked well and we must now follow the procedure laid down. I think this is good news for all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u17	Minister, I also think that this is good news in the direction of protecting cultural diversity and booksellers for 2019. That's not always the case! I hope you will ensure that we can vote on this legislation very quickly at the federal level. You will have the support of the PS group in this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u18	You will also have the support of Ecolo-Groen as it is the realization of a fight of more than 15 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u19	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u20	Of the parliamentarians who supported the issue 15 years ago, there were members of the CD&V. Flanders was ahead of us. This Agreement must be implemented by 1 January 2019 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u21	As Mrs Galant is not present, her combined questions will lapse. 22597 and 22759.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u22	Minister, this question dates back to 18 December. In December, the deadline for announcements of price reductions in the clothing, leather goods and footwear sectors continued to apply. But at every barrier period, we find that the shopkeepers circumvent that ban and, for example, link price reductions to the purchase of a second product. You said earlier that you are considering abolishing the barrier period. In response to previous questions I asked on the subject, you indicated that the FPS Economy would investigate how sanctions in the case of misleading price promotions could be made more stringent. In addition, you indicated that you would examine all the consequences of abolishing the rules. After all, small retailers are in favour of the barrier period to improve their competitiveness over large chains. Firstly, do you still believe that abolition of the barrier period is necessary? Secondly, should you receive any further advice or studies on the subject? What conclusions do you draw from that? Thirdly, can we expect initiatives in this area? Which one and do you have in mind an agenda for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u23	Mr Janssen, I have indeed commissioned an additional inquiry and have received the results in the meantime. If that's what you're interested in, I'd be happy to get them to you. This clearly shows that there is no support for traders to abolish the barrier period. I'll give you the most relevant figures from the survey already. Fifty-five percent of traders are in favour of maintaining the barrier period. There is a noticeable difference in vision between the North and the South of the country. In Flanders, two out of three is for conservation, in Wallonia it is one out of three. The same percentage does not know that the Belgian rules do not apply to foreign companies and websites. In the south of the country, that's one in four. Only one out of five traders know exactly what the prohibition of the barrier period means. Forty-eight per cent of those questioned believe that the abolition of the barrier period would not have any adverse effects on them or on sales of solders. Finally, almost six out of ten traders replied that they did not make tying during the last bond period in December. So the search doesn't give a clear picture, to express it gently. We will look into this in the government. I have also organised a consultation with the self-employed organisations in order to obtain more clarity on the basis of the survey. As agreed, I will discuss the issue further in the government with a view to an agreement based on the questioning and reactions of the organisations in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm sure you can get me that questioning. I note that you haven't quite figured out what you want to do. I will put a question again shortly when it will be finalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez-Fernandez's 22706 lapses as she has not notified. Questions Nos 22830 and 23056 by Mr Lachaert and Mr Klaps are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament No 24669 by Mrs Galant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u27	Minister, in the end of the year there are traditionally a lot of electronic banking transactions. Equally traditional attention is paid to the interbank payment periods. There is sometimes a gap of several days between the moment a transaction is authorised and the effective crediting of the beneficiary's account. In October 2017, Febelfin announced that so-called flash payments will be possible from November 2018. Between the moment of debiting account A and the crediting of account B, almost no time will be allowed to pass. This can already be done in countries such as Denmark, Sweden or the United Kingdom, which is of course a good thing for consumers and traders. However, it was unclear at the time how many and which banks would participate in the initiative. Meanwhile, we have read in the press that ING would start with it, but perhaps you can give us a general overview of that valuable project? Will it be able to enter into force? How come ING is suddenly bringing the project forward? Will other banks participate? Will it also apply to transactions within SEPA?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u28	Mr Klaps, it is still the ambition to start in November 2018. The project is in full development and the pilot banks have started testing. I can tell you that not all payments will be instant as of November. For which customers and which types of payments instant payments can be used and whether charges will be charged, is a commercial decision of each bank. Today seven banks have already signed a contract to use the instant payment platform of the Exchange Centre and Settlement. This is the central hub that channeles the transactions between the commissioning and beneficiary banks. Three more are expected to follow. Two other banks announced that they would start in the course of 2019. The UCV will also connect to the instant payment system of the European Central Bank TIPS, the TARGET Instant Payment Settlement. It is expected that many banks in the SEPA area will be able to be reached. In other words, instant payments will be possible from Belgium, but it will take some time before it becomes possible throughout the SEPA area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u29	It is a good thing that we continue to make progress in this area, so that our technology remains at the top. Belgium is one of the countries with innovative payments. Of course, it is up to the banks themselves to decide whether or not they will charge the customer for this. If they charge costs, this must be made very clear, so that customers do not suddenly come across surprises at the cost statement, especially if they do not arrive at the end of the calendar year, as is traditionally the case, which could lead to a lot of discussions. I am very pleased with the progress made in the dossier on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u30	Minister, the PSD II directive which obliges banks to open up their data is now in force. This already happened in 2017 but by January 2018 that directive had to be transposed into Belgian law. So this too is a question from a few months ago. The Directive requires banks to grant third parties access to account information and payment data. It is a directive that aims to focus mainly on further innovation in the financial sector, without underestimating the impact on banks. In the open banking landscape created, fintech companies are ready to build user-friendly and bank-crossing financial apps. In your policy paper, you mentioned that the preparatory work has started. In the meantime, we in Parliament are fully engaged in this transposition. I'd like to get an update. What are the consequences of the failure to transpose the directive for the classic banks and the new fintech players?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only ten Member States are already ready to transpose this technically complex directive. The transposition of PSD II is carried out by means of two draft laws, including the draft law of the National Bank which regulates prudential aspects. After discussion in Parliament and signature by the relevant ministers, the law will be published as soon as possible. The draft law which falls within my competence and regulates the relationship between payment service providers and users was adopted by the Council of Ministers and will now follow the further legal procedure. It is therefore the mandatory opinion of the Council of State and the discussion in Parliament. The draft law will continue to be followed with the necessary priority. Depending on the course of the further procedure, the law will be published as soon as possible, hopefully before the summer recess. With regard to the draft law under my jurisdiction, I can tell you that there has been a consultation of the various interest groups, such as Febelfin and Test-Achats. Representatives of traders such as Comeos, UNIZO, UCM and NSZ were also consulted on the options of the Payment Services Directive or the so-called PSD II Directive. Indeed, Member States have the option of moving ahead and introducing a general ban, for example for business cards or triple cards such as American Express. The interchange fees of these latter cards are not limited. They're still expensive cards for the traders. For commercial reasons, however, the hotel sector in particular feels obliged to accept these cards. The trader's prohibition to charge additional charges for payment with the most common debit or credit cards..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At government level, the discussion on whether this ban should apply to tripartite cards has not yet been concluded. The control agents of the General Directorate of Economic Inspection will be competent to monitor compliance with this prohibition. The monitoring of compliance with this prohibition will then be subject to the normal supervisory powers of the Economic Inspectorate. Work will mainly be carried out through active market monitoring and on the basis of consumer reports. Legislation will provide for sufficiently dissuasive sanctions, as they already apply to infringements of existing legislation on payment services. In concrete terms, the framework of the new players providing payment initiation and account information services in their relationship with the banks is governed by a draft law of the National Bank. It should also be taken into account that implementing provisions, namely regulatory technical standards on authentication and communication, will soon be published at European level. These regulate inter alia the communication between the banks and the new players and provide a comprehensive test phase. On today's day, the new players, including the banks, are already preparing themselves thoroughly, taking into account everything I have already said. In the current state of affairs, no significant impact of lateness on potential new players is expected. Following the publication of the law of the National Bank, the new players will be able to submit their application file for a licence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u32	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply and, of course, look forward to discussing the drafts together with you in Parliament. With regard to the passage relating to credit card charges, it does not seem logical to me to charge for one type of card, but not for the other. I believe that every trader is free to decide whether or not to accept certain types of payment cards. If he accepts them, that is under the contracts that apply and I would rather opt for them during the discussion of the draft, we shall come back to that in order to keep it as simple as possible. If there is a ban on charging credit cards, let it apply to all credit cards. That's just an opinion. We will look at this as soon as the texts are in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u33	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the Immotheker-Finotheker real estate consulting office has found that young people about twenty years of age are becoming less and less active in the real estate market. In 2007, about one in two customers in the market were under 30 years of age. Since then, the proportion of young people aged 20 years and over has ceased to decline to 25.3% in 2016. Also, between 2007 and 2016, the average age of the purchaser of real estate increased from 31.1 to 36.9 years. What are the reasons for this decrease in the opening of the real estate market to young people? Why has the average age of a real estate buyer increased so much? What are the reactions of banks to young people wishing to acquire real estate?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u34	Minister, as Kattrin Jadin has just said, fewer and fewer young people are buying real estate. In ten years, the average age of buyers has increased from 31 to 37 years. Banks are less likely to finance the entire purchase of real estate. Despite low rates, real estate has become less accessible to young people. In this regard, I would like to return to an exchange that we had last November. In response to a question, you indicated that the Economic Inspectorate had launched, in October 2017, a general investigation into compliance with mortgage credit regulations. You had instructed your administration to carry out checks to determine objectively whether the legislation is being properly enforced. Particular attention should be paid to the pre-contractual phase. A total of 152 checks would be carried out. An interim report will be sent to you in December. Have you received this interim report? What are the main conclusions? Is the regulation being properly complied with? Are you considering concrete actions to review regulation and/or promote young people's access to property?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Jadin, Mrs Lalieux, I would like to point out that the figures you mention must be nuanced. According to the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers, 36 per cent of those who had entered into a new mortgage credit in 2016 were under the age of 35. In 2017, this percentage was 44%, but in absolute terms, in 2016, an additional 50,000 young people contracted a loan compared to 2017. Developments should therefore be monitored in terms of absolute figures and not only in relative terms. For example, according to the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers figures, the number of people under 35 with a new mortgage credit increased from 154,000 to 206,000 in 2016. Secondly, according to the National Bank of Belgium, the increase in the average age at which a loan is made can be explained by a large number of elderly people who have used the lowest interest rates to invest in residential real estate, since they have used mortgage credit to finance this investment. This has automatically led to a lower proportion of the younger age group in recent statistics. Credit refinancing using a new credit has also resulted in an artificial increase in the proportion of the relatively elderly group in the new mortgage segment since 2014. Third, bank analyses confirm the trend that some young people continue to live longer with their parents and acquire housing at an older age than in the past. In addition, the ability of borrowers to repay their loans is a stumbling block for the granting of credit. The potential borrower's own contribution also plays an important role, since banks must, as a precaution, take into account the risks involved in credit. I understand that we must ensure that our banks have sufficient capital and that we must prevent the creation of a real estate bubble. However, we must also ensure that young families can obtain an affordable loan for their own home, even if they do not have the chance to have a significant start-up capital from their parents. In the same vein, I made sure to cap the cost of files for mortgage loans. In addition, at the level of federated entities, some measures already exist to help families acquire, maintain or improve their housing. With regard to controls, an interim report on compliance was produced by the Economic Inspectorate on the basis of the results adopted on 5 December 2017. As of that date, a check had been carried out or was being carried out on 115 mortgage intermediaries of two types: credit brokers and related agents. The first results show no marked difference between the two. I would point out that these results are preliminary. Infringements mainly concern the provision of the prospectus, tariffs and pre-intermediation information. There were few offences in the area of mortgage credit advertising. This survey was launched six months after the coming into force of a major legislative amendment that imposes new obligations on mortgage credit professionals. In general, it is clear from the checks that verbalised companies are quickly correcting their practices to comply with the legislation. However, warning reports have been prepared for each of these offences and not pro justitia since they were minor offences.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u36	I thank the minister for his response. I do not think there is a real estate bubble to be feared since the repayment rate is very good and there is no increase in the rate of non-repayment of mortgage loans. There is therefore no problem at this level, except that banks require more or less 20% of their own contributions. For young people, it's difficult. Fortunately, the Regions are working on it. When the final report is available, will it be available to the Commission? Will it be on the FPS Economy website? It would be interesting to check the implementation of the new laws that we have voted here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u37	The final report will be published in May.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u38	And it will appear on the site, with public access?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u39	Normally no, but I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u40	That would be good, at least to get the results, even without the names. The Commission must be able to consult this report as it is law enforcement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u41	Total transparency!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u42	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u43	Minister, dieselgate has broken out for more than two years now. A recent study by Test-Achats and its Portuguese, Spanish and Italian counterparts on 10,600 vehicle owners, including 3,000 Belgians, shows that half of the vehicles on which the update to neutralize the cheater software has been carried out are experiencing technical problems as a result. The two main problems would be an increase in fuel consumption and a decrease in engine power. There are also reports of mechanical problems as well as deficiencies in the on-board computer. The results of this study are denied by D-Ieteren; however, if they are proven, it is very challenging in terms of environmental protection, road safety and consumer protection. In March 2016, the Special Commission for the follow-up of the 'dieselgate' case had produced a report which made a series of recommendations to the government and to D-Ieteren. In the first place, we recalled that the consumer was in no way responsible for the scandal and therefore could not in any way be penalized by it, which is why we asked this company to limit the inconvenience caused to the consumer as a result of the recall campaigns. The federal government, for its part, had a responsibility to ensure that these campaigns were carried out properly. The information submitted by Test-Achats, if proven, tends to show that the requests made to D-Ieteren have not been complied with. I therefore ask you, Minister, what will be your reaction to these alleged shortcomings. Are you going to ask your administration to conduct its own investigation? If the facts are proven, what action will be taken against D-Ieteren? I would also like to ask you to keep us informed of the follow-up given by the federal government to the recommendations made by the above-mentioned Commission. As far as your skills are concerned, I am thinking in particular of measures aimed at: - Improving the quality of consumer information. These included two components: information on the exact content of the modifications made to vehicles equipped with the cheater software and that consumers are kept informed of the consequences; and information that is provided to consumers when purchasing a vehicle so that it can assess its financial and environmental impacts. - Simplification of the 'class action' procedure - Assessment of the provisions of the Code of Economic Law relating to consumer protection in order to guarantee the protection of all injured persons, using their vehicles for private or professional use. - The introduction of a system to monitor the evolution of values on the Belgian market for the resale of vehicles affected by the dieselgate scandal. - Finally, the establishment of a legal mechanism for whistleblowers and their legal protection. More generally, Minister, what is the status of the action plan to be tabled by the federal government in accordance with recommendation 58 by the end of 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u44	Mr President, Minister, I have two questions on this matter. In 2015 it became known that cars of car builder Volkswagen were equipped with software that manipulated the emissions of diesel cars. Many cars were hit in Belgium. In our country, a voluntary recall was organised. Test-Achats found in January that figures show that 45% of the Audi A6s undergoing software modification were subsequently affected by malfunctions or changed driving behaviour. The most common complaints are higher fuel consumption, mechanical problems and loss of power. Thirteen percent of drivers would then go to the garage again, according to Test-Achats, to have the problems resolved, with 75% having to pay the costs themselves. The Belgian importer of the Volkswagen Group denied the figures and stated that many of the reported problems are not caused by the software update. As a result of this communication, you suggested that you speak with those concerned in order to resolve the problems. Have you already made an assessment of the mentioned figures of Test-Achats? When will you consult with the actors involved? What possible measures do you provide for to help the affected consumers? Then I come to my second question. This one's also about recalling the shuffle trucks. In our country, a voluntary recall was organised. From the outset it was shown to start slowly. Recently, figures from Test-Achats showed that a quarter of drivers fear problems when they would update their car. Figures released by the European Commission show that 22% of these cars are still driving around in our country. At Skoda, which is part of the Volkswagen Group, it appears that 39 % of the chasing cars are still driving around. Can you also give an assessment of these figures? In your opinion, does a mandatory recall of the affected cars force themselves to do so? Do you see any other measures to speed up the adjustment of the software to the remaining Audi Q5s?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although the Economic Inspectorate has not yet received any direct complaint, the figures published by Test-Achats are worrying. I requested detailed information from Test-Achats and I had a conversation with the responsible D'Ieteren on 8 February to discuss the file. However, the problem posed by Test-Purchasing mainly requires a European approach to Volkswagen. This is currently the subject of discussions at European level within the CPC network of the competent inspection services, in which my administration also participates. The European authorities of the CPC network have invited Volkswagen to better manage the complaints of the vehicle owners, both before and after the repair. If the facts quoted by Test-Achats are proven, solutions at European level will also have to be considered, including any financial compensation. These elements will undoubtedly play a role in the assessment of the class action that Test-Achats has initiated. The fear of negative effects undoubtedly also occurs when owners decide not to respond to the request to have the update run. The percentages that Test-Achats mentions are in line with the data that D'Ieteren provided me during the interview on 8 February. D'Ieteren showed that 77% of Belgian owners have already had the software update run. The number of formal complaints related to the software is 1.17 %. D'Ieteren pointed out that certain repairs could be financially covered under the Trust Building Measure. All owners who responded to the Test-Achats survey and said that they have technical defects after the update can report to an official concessionaire or directly to D'Ieteren Costumer Care, which will examine each complaint case on a case-by-case basis. From the point of view of consumer protection, I do not see the immediate usefulness of a mandatory recall. The opportunity of such an obligation for environmental or health reasons is left to the assessment of the competent federal and regional ministers. With regard to Mr de Lamotte's question, concerning the recommendations of the Special Parliamentary Committee on Dieselgate, I can inform you that the Prime Minister has sent complete follow-up tables in his reply to a written question from Mr Nollet and a written question from Mrs Maes to the Senate. I will, of course, give you an up-to-date table for the points within my competence. I would also like to add that with regard to the environmental information provided to consumers, the new European tests according to the WLTP standard are closer to reality with regard to CO2 emissions and fuel consumption of new vehicles. They shall apply progressively until they are mandatory on all vehicles from 1 September 2019. During the controls carried out by the Economic Inspectorate on 12 January at the Auto Show, no infringement of this new regulation could be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u46	I thank the minister for his response. If he sends me the documents, I'll be happy. Minister, if I have heard correctly, you are going to ask for more information about Test-Achats and D'Ieteren. I'll come back to you or you'll send me the additional statistics because this was one of my questions. Depending on the statistics, there will be conclusions to be drawn and decisions to be taken. We'll go back to the file. I will also contact Test-Achats, who said that he would use these statistics in the action class action that will be carried out. I will therefore have additional questions to ask. Thank you for the documents you've just given me. If I have any further questions, I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u47	Mr President, Minister, I note that this needs to be dealt with at European level and that a number of decisions are made by Mrs Marghem and at regional level. I'm going to ask Mrs Marghem a few more questions to sort this out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u48	Mr President, this is not two questions, but one. This will make our work easier. For each of us, shopping at the supermarket ends in the same way: check-in, payment and receipt of the check-in ticket. This last stage seems quite natural, as it seems to have always existed. But she's asking me. Indeed, it is only necessary to see the bins located at the exits of the large surfaces to realize the large number of people who throw away their ticket immediately after receiving it. I am sure Mrs Gerkens is very sensitive to this. Many are also those who, after having accumulated them for a long time in a bag, in a pocket or on a piece of furniture, will finally decide to get rid of them without taking care of them during large storage. I therefore wonder about the real usefulness of these small pieces of paper. Taken together, it is indeed tons and tons of paper that are wasted each year. At home, some brands have already decided to switch to an electronic version of their guarantee ticket. At our French and Dutch neighbours, some have decided to make the issue of cash tickets optional and to print them only on request from customers. In the vast majority of cases, this request does not come. This makes it possible to save money for businesses, but also to avoid a significant waste of paper. Minister, what is your view on the matter? Do you think it would be wise to encourage traders in our country to draw inspiration from the examples cited?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u49	Mr Flahaux, the issue of a cash ticket is not in itself mandatory for sales of goods. However, it can be a useful means for the consumer. Indeed, it can serve as proof of payment. Similarly, it serves to attest to the price actually taken into account in relation to the price that is displayed in shelves or on advertising. It also testifies to the fact that the product was actually purchased in such a store. Finally, it provides proof of the date of delivery and purchase of the consumer goods, from which the legal and commercial guarantee applies. This does not mean that it must be a printed piece. On the other hand, for the reasons I have just listed, it is important that proof of purchase be instantly provided on a durable medium such as a cash ticket. A move towards digitisation is to be applauded, but people who do not have access to or are unable to use the information technology must be able to continue to have the necessary evidence to assert their rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answer. I wasn't asking for the check-in ticket to be completely removed. However, at the time when it can be printed, the customer should be asked whether he wants a paper version or - since many consumers purchase by automatic means - to ensure that the store card includes the digitization of the payment. I understand that, for the elderly - but not only - the possession of a paper ticket can be comforting. However, a significant volume of paper would be avoided. Every time I see one, I think of the tree that was cut down to produce it. And it makes me cry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u51	Minister, the integration of Record Bank into ING Belgium has been affecting us for over a year now. The drastic restructuring struck us all with silence. After the announcement of integration on 3 October 2016, you joined the Professional Association of Independent Financial Intermediaries, Fedafin and the bank. We now find that ING has started communication to the customer about operational integration. Customers will be informed in this way about the fact that their Record products will be converted or replaced by ING products. They are also informed about the impact on the deposit guarantee. It is also emphasised that customers who do not agree with the fact that their products are now all ING products can terminate their contract immediately and free of charge before 1 April 2018. The latter is, by the way, a legal obligation. Many customers respond to this communication by canceling their contract. Record Bank's agents are also overwhelmed with questions from their customers to which they cannot answer themselves. The agents in question still do not know when their contract with the bank will be terminated, when the transfer of the customer to a new office is planned and, finally, they do not know which office the new customers will be sent to. The fact that the customers are angry makes sense. They don't believe their agent when he tells them he doesn't know this information himself. Despite discussions between you, Minister, and the professional association BZB-Fedafin, communication to the customer is still being stepped up and the agents continue to lose customers. The professional association advised its agents to default the bank. Some of them have done this in the meantime. In addition, the trade association informed its members that a further meeting was planned. Mr Secretary, can you give us an update on this dossier? Is there any commitment from the bank to deal correctly with the agents of Record Bank? Will you address the bank on the arrangements made in the code of conduct between credit institutions and bank agents? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u52	Mr President, at the beginning of February I had a meeting with the BZB and a number of individual bank agents to get a better view of the problems they face as a result of the integration of Record into ING. Based on the information that was provided to me during that interview, I also had a meeting with ING/Record a few days later. ING has committed itself to the following points during this interview. I'll run them over. Firstly, the codes of conduct that have been concluded will be respected. Secondly, the applicability of collective agreement No. 32bis will be further examined by the Cabinet, in collaboration with ING. Thirdly, ING will have the issue of the tax treatment of the fees received by the agents who signed an amicable settlement examined and, where appropriate, contact Finance. Fourthly, the uncertainties that have been pointed out to us by the agents about costs, communication and so on will be resolved by ING and communicated to the professional associations. By the end of February at the latest, ING will formally terminate all agents, including ING's commitment to communicate the migration weekend applicable to the agents. Fifthly, a new proposal will be made by the agents who have signed an amicable settlement, but are therefore financially disadvantaged in relation to the agents who get their notice. Sixthly, ING will clarify to professional associations and agents when the competitive clause applies. All this was agreed at the time. However, I have to note that I still receive many complaints from professional federations and intermediaries who complain about how they are being treated in the context of the integration of Record into ING. They state that the agreements made with ING are not properly respected in practice. In view of all these elements, I have taken a number of measures to safeguard the position of agents and consumers. I have instructed the various administrations under my jurisdiction to carry out the necessary inspections. These inspections will include the application of collective agreement No. 32a, unfair commercial practices and the application of credit legislation by the relevant institutions. It has also been pointed out to me that by linking certain products, such as mortgage credit, to other products, the consumer now receives less favourable financial terms than those that were part of the original agreement with Record Bank. I'll have this examined further by the Economic Inspectorate. Should this prove to be the case, I will re-evaluate the legal authorisation for joint offerings. In addition, I will take a legislative initiative to make the code of conduct legally enforceable in a B2B relationship and therefore to create a power of control for the Economic Inspectorate. This will therefore apply to the codes of conduct that have already been concluded, such as between Febelfin and ING. I am following this file closely, as you are, because a number of things have caused my and probably your eyebrows to frown.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer and your position on this dossier. When one hears some stories, it is about more than the eyebrows frowning. It really went very far. The question then is what has been achieved in long negotiations with difficulty if they are not respected afterwards. If ING had paid as much attention to its independent banking agents as to the employees she had to fire, these problems could have been largely avoided. An additional aspect is that consumers should not be harmed in any way by this transition. For example, if it turns out that the policy conditions of linked insurance are less favourable, both in terms of coverage and in terms of rate, this can only mean that the customer can cancel them without adverse consequences for his mortgage credit. I hope you share this view. I will not solve this issue until it is resolved in a proper way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u54	Minister, Frans Timmermans, Vice-President of the European Commission, called on catering operators in January to offer free tap water in their restaurant or café. This could improve the image of tap water and reduce the use of plastic. Of course, nothing's free. That is also the reason why Horeca Flanders previously rejected the proposal. After all, the catering operator must charge all its costs in order to keep the catering business profitable, including water consumption. For this reason, the free choice for every catering shop to offer free tap water seems obvious. It is, of course, important that consumers are properly informed about the water they are getting. Minister, what is your position on the awareness of drinking tap water by offering it free of charge in catering shops? Have you received any views on this matter from other Member States? What good examples were shown? What measures do you find useful to better market drinking tap water?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u55	The objectives of the Commission's recommendation on the environment are commendable. In that respect, there is nothing against encouraging catering shops to offer tap water, often also called homemade water, to customers. Whether or not they do so is a commercial consideration which I believe they should make themselves, as well as the consideration of whether or not they do so free of charge. After all, it is more than just the price of the tap water itself. It is also about cooling, operation, possible investment, the cost of an installation to make the water vibrant. In my view, it is important that we ensure that everything is done in full transparency for the consumer. The consumer must know that the water offered to him is not bottled water or is not of a particular brand. He also needs to know the price he's paying for it. Horeca Vlaanderen has already explicitly repeated these principles in her member's magazine following a contact with my cabinet. I have not received a position on this from other Member States. It is normally the regions that are competent for water distribution. The Commission's approach is neither economic nor consumer protection. That is why it is not for me to propose measures to promote the drinking of tap water. From consumer affairs, when tap water is offered, consumers must also know at what price. The catering operator is best placed to give that transparency if he wants to offer tap water.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u56	Minister, the answer is very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u57	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, under the Act of 22 May 2014 relating to the costing by the Federal Office of the Plan of Electoral Programmes presented by political parties during the election of the House of Representatives (MB 22 July 2014), each political party represented in the House or in a Community or Regional Parliament must have its priorities quantified, the latter to be forwarded to the Bureau of the Plan no later than 100 days before the election. The Federal Office of the Plan calculates 60 days before the elections. Political parties, who may consult with the Planning Office in this regard, must submit their comments no later than 30 days prior to the elections to the Planning Office, as the exchange remains confidential. Then, 15 days before the election, the Office of the Plan publishes the final figures. The Act defines the "list of priorities" as the document in which a political party identifies the political proposals for the electoral programme that should be carried out as a matter of priority, taking into account the maximum number of priorities set in consultation with the Federal Planning Office. "Crossing" is defined as a short- and medium-term calculation of the impact on public finances, on the purchasing power and employment of the various income groups, on social security, and on the impact on the environment and mobility that could be generated by the implementation of the list of priorities, the modalities of which are determined in consultation between Parliament and the Federal Bureau of the Plan, twice a year. The legis ratio of the proposed law at the time dealt with the budgetary consequences of the priorities identified by political parties, although the authors were aware that the proposed measures could have consequences in other areas. Here are some examples. What would the decision to halve fuel excise duties have in terms of mobility? What would be the consequences, in addition to the proceeds of this operation, of the privatisation of SNCB in terms of public service (possibly removal of unprofitable lines)? The chair of the working group on "Political parties" in the Chamber, Inez De Coninck, said, on the margins of the meeting on 3 May, that the Federal Bureau of the Plan was not able to carry out the figures due to a lack of staff (8 persons per 90 persons for the benefit of the Centraal Bureau, a similar body in the Netherlands). This poses a problem of effectiveness and applicability of the law for the 2019 elections, despite its entry into force since 26 May 2014. As a result, Minister, what is the current status of this issue? Will any adaptations be implemented to ensure the correct application of the law in the 2019 elections?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u58	Mr. Chair, Ms. Caprasse, as you have pointed out, there are a number of questions about the application of the Act, which also explains why the Act explicitly provides for biannual consultation between Parliament and the Federal Office of the Plan to clarify it. Since 2015, the Federal Office of the Plan has been working with Parliament on several occasions, including the working group "Political Parties". The current law provides for a very wide range of electoral programmes to be numbered. Not only are all parties represented in the House of Representatives or in a Regional or Community Parliament required to participate in the figures. All other political parties participating in the elections may also voluntarily request to participate in the figures. In 2014, 68 political parties took part in the elections, including 46 in the elections to the House of Representatives. This wide range also applies to the number of priorities to be highlighted by each political party. The current legislation allows for a broad interpretation. During the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016, the federal government decided to recruit 8 new collaborators with specific profiles for the modelling phase. Pending the conclusion of structural financing agreements, it was decided to allocate appropriations from the interdepartmental provision for this purpose. In this way, the Federal Planning Office can make the necessary arrangements for the implementation of the Act. In the meantime, staff members have also been recruited. In light of the current situation, the BRP is making every effort to prepare, by the end of 2018, the instruments necessary for the costing in 2019. But, as he has already communicated to the Political Parties working group of February 3, 2016, he believes that the encryption exercise is only feasible if the figures are limited to the political parties currently represented in the House. To this end, it is urgent to amend the law of 22 May 2014. Encryption is limited to a list of clearly defined priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u59	I am satisfied with the answer. Maybe we'll rest the question later to make sure it's in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u60	Questions Nos 23755 and 23775 by Mrs Jadin are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u61	Mr Minister, the new consumer agreement in the liberalised gas and energy market contains strict rules on good marketing practices, whether telephone or otherwise. In addition, it explicitly provides that third-party energy suppliers for the sale of their products (sealing) must now ensure that their contracts with those third parties include provisions under which third-party energy suppliers contractually undertake to comply with the rules set out in that agreement. However, it appears that the number of complaints about these practices in the energy supply sector continues to increase. Thus, according to the Energy Ombudsman, consumer complaints about their energy supplier increased by 37% between 2015 and 2017. Such an increase would be partly explained by "some questionable market and sales practices that are increasingly common". According to the Ombudsman, energy suppliers would have "more recourse to external providers, for telephone lock-up or door-to-door" and some of these providers would have no scruples at using the most dishonest schemes to lure the most gullible consumers. The worsening of this problem therefore raises some questions. Given the particular nature of consumer goods such as electricity and gas, the 14-day standard withdrawal period provided for in the law for off-premises sales seems far too short. Too often the consumer becomes aware of the implications of the contract that he has passed long after that time. I am well aware that this is the result of the transposition of the European Directive of 25 October 2011 on consumer rights. However, should we not enter into negotiations with the European authorities in order to extend it for energy supply contracts? All the more so since the objective of harmonisation under the abovementioned Directive seems less crucial in the context of these contracts since they are concluded with national suppliers. The new consumer agreement provides that energy suppliers are civilly liable for the mistakes committed by the sellers they use. However, not all energy suppliers have signed this agreement. Moreover, it came back that most complaints came from consumers who had entered into contracts with non-signatory suppliers. Should not the agreement be made legally binding for the whole sector? Or at least impose transparency obligations so that everyone can know clearly which suppliers are not signatories to the agreement? In Great Britain, OFGEM, the United Kingdom's gas and electricity regulator, has sentenced various energy-supply companies to record fines because the management of their sales was insufficient to protect consumers from abusive sales by sellers. Since then, UK energy suppliers have completely stopped the use of direct sellers to acquire new customers. Does this example not demonstrate that, at least under energy supply contracts, these practices should be completely prohibited?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr de Lamotte, the European directive on consumer rights imposes a right of withdrawal on contracts concluded at a distance, and also on contracts for supplies of electricity and gas. It makes no distinction between products supplied by domestic or foreign companies. I do not think that the problem you raise should be at European level. The consumer agreement must provide for a longer period of time in the energy sector. Indeed, the energy supplier itself must reconfirm the energy contract concluded outside the establishment. The withdrawal period shall not begin until such confirmation and not after the conclusion of the contract. As I have said on several occasions in this committee, the "unfair practices and consumer rights" directives are of a maximum nature. A Member State is therefore not in a position to go any further. Thus, a code of conduct cannot be made binding in general. I do not know the context of the case in Great Britain, but I assume it is based on the rules on unfair practices. I do not think that this case leads to a total ban on off-premises sales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I am still hungry. Because, as I said in my question, not all suppliers have signed the consumer agreement. Therefore, when one realizes what the problem is, it is obviously in those. Shouldn't the agreement be made mandatory and mandatory? Leaving people out of the norm, makes consumers most vulnerable likely to be fooled in this context. I really wonder, and I consider the content of your somewhat chilly answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u64	Mr Minister, the trafficking in human beings, with the necessary controls, causes dangerous situations to arise around the parkings on our motorways, both for those who try to escape the controls and for those driving by on the highway at that time. In the event of an accident, as we have seen, Article 29a of the Act on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance, the LMO, the compulsory civil liability insurance of the driver of the vehicle in question automatically interferes with the costs incurred by the victim as a result of physical damage. After all, the law protects weak road users. Anyone liable must not have been established at the time of payment. The autonomous fee obligation is a good arrangement. That's why she's public order. However, that does not mean that it is absolute. The law also provides that if the victim, at the time of the accident, was over 14 years old and wanted the accident and its consequences, he or she cannot rely on the provisions of Article 29a of the WAM. Should we understand this unlikely case, where a pedestrian suddenly crosses the motorway or sprint, whether under that exception or not? Minister, I would like to hear your views on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u65	Mr President, the legislator wants the provision 'victims who wanted the accident and its consequences' to be interpreted very narrowly. Parliament's work clarifies that the concept is very close to suicide. This implies that a sudden pedestrian crossing or sprinting on a highway can only be excluded from Article 29a of the WAM if he or she has wanted the accident and its fatal consequences. It is up to the party called upon to pay to prove that the exception is applicable and thus there is an intentional error of the weak road user. If there is a discussion about the application of that provision in a specific case, it is of course up to the courts and courts to decide. Nevertheless, Mr Klaps, I have already tried to give you some insight into the way in which we understand the legislation, in particular Article 29a of the WAM, with the parliamentary documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u66	Mr Minister, it is not easy, of course, to talk about an individual case in general terms. However, I believe that when applying every rule we should try to ensure that reasonableness prevails. When crossing a highway, the chances of getting across are very small. So it may be very difficult to find out afterwards whether or not it was intended to commit suicide. It is an extreme case and we need to think carefully about whether we should not apply this exception. After all, it can never be justified to cross a motorway and let the driver, who cannot avoid the accident, take the blame for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u67	Mr President, Minister, the Act of 24 March 2003, as amended on 1 April 2007, imposes a basic banking service. On the SPF Economy website, this service is presented not only as a solution for those who are denied opening a bank account because of their financial precariousness, but also as a solution for those who are experiencing difficulties in carrying out transactions by electronic means. This service entitles 36 manual operations. Of course, this can be useful for seniors and for anyone who has problems with electronic operations. However, I have doubts about the effectiveness of this solution. In addition, the number of manual operations is limited to 36. Moreover, it is not necessarily known to the general public. In addition, it is not necessarily free. Each year, the maximum price of the basic banking service is adjusted to the consumer price index. Since 1 January 2018, the bank can claim a maximum amount of 15.76 euros. In addition, the cancellation announcements of banking agencies follow. In some parts of the country, there is concern that there may be a shortage of banking services nearby. I fear that banks will systematically favour cities over rural areas and areas inhabited by the citizens who have the highest incomes, compared to those where more low-income people live. Finally, I am also concerned about the situation in rural areas that are referred to as "white" areas, i.e. areas with little or no access to the telephone network or the Internet. This would concern 39 rural communes, all located in the Walloon Region. Minister, what is the current situation with respect to basic service? Has the Act of 24 March 2003, as amended on 1 April 2007, been recently evaluated? Do you have other tools to guarantee or promote equal access to banking services? Is the Banking–Credit–Locations Mediation Service, mentioned on the FPS Finance website about the basic service the same service as Ambudsfin or is it a separate service to manage only complaints related to the basic service? Through which channels are the basic banking service and the mediation service made known to the general public? Is there a monitoring of the accessibility of banking services throughout the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u68	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse, the 2003 Act was incorporated into Book VII of the Code of Economic Law. The provisions of the Code were recently amended by a law of 22 December 2017, following the transposition of the European Directive on payment accounts. In particular, this Directive provides for access to a payment account with basic benefits. The basic banking service is now a payment service available within the European Union. The Code of Economic Law prohibits any discriminatory condition that would apply to the holding of a basic banking service. In this sense, the consumer must be guaranteed access to the basic banking service regardless of any assessment of his financial situation, personal status, income level, credit history or personal bankruptcy. In addition, the consumer must be able to use this basic banking service without being too difficult or burdensome. To this end, all credit institutions are legally obliged to offer the basic banking service in order to guarantee to the consumer the possibility of opening an account in a credit institution which is within a reasonable distance of its home and in which the services can be actually carried out on the spot at the counters and terminals, which implies a deployment throughout the country. The Banques-Crédit-Placements Mediation Service, which is mentioned on the SPF Economy website about the basic service, is also called "Ombudsfin". Following the December 2017 law, it is noted that the Umbudsfin's decisions on basic banking services are legally binding. The credit institution must make available to the consumer, free of charge, in a clear and accessible manner, all information on the basic banking service available, at least on paper in premises accessible to the public. If the credit institution is available via a website, this information is also clearly and visibly placed on this website. In addition, the credit institution shall make free assistance available to the consumer. The information and assistance shall cover the specific characteristics of the basic banking service offered, the fees, the conditions of use, the procedures to be followed to exercise the right of access to the basic banking service and the access routes to the out-of-court dispute settlement procedures. I do not have the figures to know precisely the number of basic banking services distributed by geographical area, but the figures for the whole territory. In 2016, Ombudsfin received two complaints regarding the basic banking service and seven complaints in 2017. Credit institutions shall provide Ombudsfin annually with statistics on the number of accounts opened, the number of refusals and terminations and their reasons. In 2016, there were 1,545 open basic banking services and 1,248 in 2017. Three were refused in 2016 and none in 2017; 1,496 were terminated in 2016 and 1,439 in 2017. The number of basic banking services in 2016 is 8,645 and 8,444 in 2017. Book VII of the Code of Economic Law now obliges credit institutions to transmit annually to the Economic Inspectorate of the SPF Economy information on the number of accounts opened, the number of refusals and cancellations and their reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u69	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. I still have questions about how banking services are distributed in rural and more populated areas. This is somewhat unclear, and we will probably come back to you with more detailed questions later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u70	Debates of the European Parliament No 23823 by Mrs Smaers and No 23823 by Mrs Smaers and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the Debates of the European Parliament Mr Friart's 239445 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u71	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, my question follows on from an exchange that we had during the budget work on what happened to the former Consumer Organization Research and Information Centre (CRIC). You replied that he had been put into liquidation in 2015. Meanwhile, the Belgian Association for Research and Expertise of Consumer Organisations (AB-REOC) has been launched. It has annual resources and the structure, you said, works properly. I would now like to refer to the significant title of an article published last July in the magazine Alter Échos: "AB-REOC: to live happily, live hidden". This article describes the circumstances of the signing, in June 2015, of a new management contract which requires the association to be discreet. The statutes state that she does not engage in marketing and does not communicate directly with the media. As a result, no information is available on the Internet and no public information exists on the work under way within the association. Poor consumers! This article further indicates, with respect to funding, that the new government has changed the balance. While Minister Vande Lanotte was planning an initial budget of 1.7 million, you gave with your lips a planed budget and imposed a full-fledged operation of the organization. The association's balance sheet is not invalid, it is said. It operates, meets in multiple advisory commissions, and has carried out several studies. The chairman of the board of directors is confident. However, "no visibility, no communication, a small team, housed within the SPF Economy, somewhere under close supervision of the subsidizing power", is in the end the image given of this new body. Minister, what is your vision of the role and future of AB-REOC? What is the picture in terms of the representation of consumer organisations in advisory bodies and commissions? Can you – possibly in writing – provide me with a list of the opinions and studies that have been carried out by the association since its inception? Finally, what are the opportunities for the public interested in its work to learn about it? Why not give them more visibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lalieux, the role and tasks of AB-REOC were determined in the management contract signed on 15 June 2015. Since then, my vision has not changed. It is the responsibility of consumer organisations that are members of AB-REOC to decide on the advisory bodies in which they sit. Choices are needed and priorities need to be set in this regard. I did not receive any signals that consumer representations in the advisory bodies provided for in the matters assigned to me posed problems. AB-REOC is an independent association run by consumer organisations. They are the ones who set the programme of work and decide on studies. In the article to which you referred, its chairman already lists. I have to send you back to him for more details. It is up to consumer organisations to decide to what extent they are communicating externally about the work of AB-REOC, which is intended to support them. This has indeed been agreed with the aim of avoiding the repetition of the anomalies of the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u73	The opacity of AB-REOC is the opacity of the Minister's response. It's a little surreal! We don't know anything here. We don't know anything about what she's doing. We don't know anything about education. We don't know anything about the tests. No, you didn't answer me! There's nothing on his website! How do you want us to know at some point how a federally funded association works – perhaps, at least much less than before – how it works in favour of consumers, what are its studies, its analyses? Indeed, she cannot communicate in any way, minister! If this is your way of talking about consumers, it is not mine! You don't even know yourself! If you knew, I imagine you would have answered something clearer instead of your completely opaque answer!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u74	We had a lot of problems with the old CRIOC!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u75	Is that why consumers are being silenced now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u76	We've settled everything. Today, consumer organisations are responsible. It's not me!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u77	I don't know why he screams. I'm just asking for some transparency, minister. That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u78	I gave you my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u79	I can say that I am not happy with your answer. Then you don't have to answer me. I am not asking for a dialogue, Mr President!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u80	Mr President, Minister, by royal decree of 13 December 2017, you have incorporated certain advisory bodies into the Central Economic Council and abolished other advisory bodies, known as "non-active". For example, the Commission on Improper Clauses is integrated into the Central Economic Council. The composition is not changed, but the President and Vice-President are no longer required to be judges. Article 3 no longer provides for the Commission to be able to invite outside experts to attend its meetings. Article 7 no longer provides for an annual report. The terms of office of the members shall be terminated prematurely. Similarly, the Consumer Council and the Consumer Safety Commission are merging. They are integrated into the Central Economic Council as a special Consultative Commission on Consumer Affairs. Article 4 no longer provides for outside experts to attend meetings. Article 7 no longer provides for an annual report. The terms of office of the members shall be terminated prematurely. Minister, can you justify these changes? What is the expected effect from the point of view of operation? What is the expected gain in financial resources? As regards the Ecolabelling and Advertising Commission, it is repealed, and Article 6.36 of the Code of Economic Law is repealed. This commission was originally established and this article was the basis of an Environmental Advertising Code. What's the matter with him? Can you justify these changes? Is it true that this commission was not active?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u81	Mrs Lalieux, the Code of Economic Law explicitly provides that each special advisory commission shall draw up an annual report and invite experts to attend meetings in accordance with the rules laid down in its rules of procedure. It was therefore superfluous to include these provisions in the Royal Integration Order. As regards the expected effect and gains, the integration of bodies rendering general opinions of an economic nature within a single dome will enable: - greater visibility within a single body with general economic advice; - a wider scope of these opinions; - simplification of operation when the same request for opinion is addressed to several advisory bodies; - standard procedures; - efficient use of means. The Ecolabelling and Advertising Commission has not been active since 2003. It therefore confirms the existing situation. Its powers of advice and recommendations on advertising and labelling relating to environmental effects are taken over by the Special Consultative Committee on Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u82	Minister, thank you. A reading error may have occurred on my part; indeed, the royal decree no longer provided for the annual report and the use of experts, but I did not go to review the article of the Code of Economic Law. My first questions were incorrect, I admit. However, I hope that the powers of this committee, which no longer meets, are well taken over and exercised by the Special Consultative Committee on Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lambrecht's 23966 is deleted. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 24017 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u84	Mr President, Mr Minister, at the beginning of March, the press told us that bpost had sent a letter to its suppliers offering to pay him 2% of the amount invoiced last year via a credit note. The practice may be surprising: is bpost not taking advantage of its strong position to put pressure on its suppliers for a possible renewal of contracts? According to some suppliers, this would seem like blackmail, although this practice seems to be common in large companies. Your colleague, the Minister in charge of Public Enterprises, considers it to be a good business management, even though you consider it unacceptable. You declared it the same day. Minister, what is the government's position on this practice? This widespread practice seems to favour large enterprises in the face of SMEs. Do you confirm this balance of power? To what extent can it be considered not to be an abuse of a dominant position? Has this practice ever been challenged by representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises in court or with competition authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u85	Ms. Lalieux, you should ask the Prime Minister the question about the government's position on this. My point of view is clear. I find this way of putting suppliers under unacceptable pressure. Soon I will take a legislative initiative to regulate these business-to-business practices, say B to B. Thus, the rights and competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises will be strengthened. This will enable suppliers to better defend themselves in the future. The balance of power has always existed between companies and does not necessarily represent a source of obstacles to the proper functioning of the market. On the other hand, it is unfair business practices towards smaller businesses that arise from these power relationships that are problematic. As I told you, I will be introducing a bill on this matter soon. bpost is an actor with a strong position in the markets in which it operates. However, it is not up to me to classify his position as dominant or his practices as infringements of competition law. This role is legally vested in the courts and the Belgian Competition Authority. To the best of my knowledge, it has not yet been seized about the bpost practices that are the subject of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u86	Minister, thank you. I think that the Prime Minister is already very much in demand and that it would not be appropriate to ask him a new question. We hope the government speaks with one voice. For when a bill is signed by three ministers, it is said that the government is represented by only one. That was the idea here. I will not ask the Prime Minister the question. As I understand it, you intend to put an end to this type of practice to defend small and medium-sized enterprises, which is important. I imagine that this will be the government's position if the bill passes the ramp of first and second reading to the government. I think it is important to do so because it undermines the economic fabric of SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u87	Minister, in September 2013, China presented its ambitious project for the new Silk Road. The latter is characterized by massive public investment in the development of land and maritime logistics infrastructure, which should eventually link Asia to Europe and Africa. I am pleased that the Chair of the Infrastructure Commission is here. You expressed your enthusiasm for this project at a meeting at the Chinese Embassy in November 2016. I don't think Prince Laurent was present! You hoped that our country would join the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, which is one of the instruments set up by Beijing to carry out this project. The idea of including our country in the project of the new silk road seemed to seduce the Chinese ambassador who explained in this regard the interest his country had in the port of Antwerp through the construction of a Europe-Africa-China transhipment centre. You were also there – you see I'm tracking you – when the port of Zeebrugge hosted the first train from the Volvo factory in China in June 2017. I had the opportunity to question your Secretary of State, Mr. From Crem, on the situation of our country's candidacy in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. This was a question asked in plenary session. His answer states that we will become an effective member once we have made a first payment. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you whether Belgium intends to become even more part of the vast plan of the new silk road. Has there been any concrete progress in the project to establish a transhipment centre at the port of Antwerp, referred to above?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u88	Mr Flahaux, I would like to draw your attention to my answer to Parliamentary question 6518 by Mrs Durant of 6 July 2017 which shows my nuanced position which was also clear in my speech...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u89	Mrs. Durant?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u90	Excuse me, Mrs. Güler Turan. I thought so, too. I know him from somewhere else. Let's check it out, Mr. Flahaux. Maybe we made a little mistake. This is a parliamentary question in the Senate. To complete your understanding of what Obor means to the Chinese authorities, I can quote from the very interesting words of the Chinese Foreign Minister. Wang Yi said at a press conference on 8 March 2018: "However, I am of the opinion that the European Union must start the debate with China on the conditions and circumstances under which the Obor project is defined and executed. In addition, the European Union can use its funds from the European Investment Bank to develop projects related to Obor, projects stimulating its own connectivity." Infrastructure development is therefore an aspect of the Obor project's strategy. Strengthening trade links, in particular through high-quality infrastructure, is a crucial aspect of the European Union's future relations with Asia. For Belgium, Obor is an instrument for strengthening bilateral relations with China. The ports of Antwerp and Zeebrugge are already strategic centres. At present, there is no initiative on the part of the government to involve our country in Obor initiatives through concrete investment projects. Our companies obviously follow the various projects and markets developed within this framework. Here, we must stress the importance of the principle that European and Belgian companies must obtain access to the Chinese market identical to that of Chinese companies in the European Union and in our country. As for the concrete trans-shipment projects, particularly in the port of Antwerp, they are part of the promotion of foreign investment, which is the exclusive competence of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u91	Thank you, minister, indeed these powers are both regional and federal, which always complicates things. In terms of infrastructure, whether port or rail, any coordination that can be achieved, whether in Europe or between Europe and China, is in the right direction. I will carefully read your answer as well as the intervention of the Chinese Foreign Minister, in order to see how I can possibly, either in the federal or through a regional parliamentarian, contact him to try to approach him. I believe that this "new silk road" is an extremely important issue that will grow in the coming years. The more we know, the better.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u92	Minister, on Thursday 22 February and Friday 23 February this year, European Industry Day was devoted to the future of European industry by 2030. At the initiative of the European Commission, 600 participants, all key players in industry, finance, research and innovation, met in Brussels to take stock of the strategic approach to industrial policy presented last autumn by Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker and to discuss the future of European industry by 2030. All these economic actors discussed creating common visions for the future, including the launch of an industrial forum on clean energy. The presence of the Vice-Presidents of the Jyrki Katainen Commission (Employment, Growth, Investment and Competitiveness) and Maros Sefcovic (Energy Union), as well as Commissioners Elzbieta Bierikowska (Internal Market, Industry, SMEs and Entrepreneurship), Carlos Moedas (Research and Innovation) and Mariya Gabriel (Digital Economy and Society) was announced. European industry is strong and maintains a leading position in many sectors in world markets. Industry accounts for two thirds of EU exports and totals 32 million jobs, 1.5 million of which have been created since 2013. Minister, what were the Belgian contributions to this economic forum? What were the political actors, both regional and federal, present in these discussions? What are the main competitive advantages of Belgian companies in the areas discussed at this industrial forum, such as clean energy, battery industry, renewable energy and low energy construction? On the other hand, what are the shortcomings in the competitiveness of our companies in these areas? What measures are being taken to modernize and boost these industrial sectors? Minister, thank you for your answers and the follow-up you will give to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u93	As industrial policy falls within the competence of the Regions, my services were not involved in the forefront of this European Industry Day. However, I can inform you that, following a consultation between regional governments, on the one hand, and the federal and regional governments, on the other hand, Belgium drafted last October a strategic document in which we shared our priorities and our ambitions for a forward-looking European industrial policy. This document serves as a guide for our collaboration with the European Commission in the framework of the new industrial agenda drawn up by the Commission which was recently discussed at this European Industry Day. With regard to our country's priority policy actions in the field of industrial policy of the European Union, I refer you to the eleven priorities that Belgium published last October in that document.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u94	In this area of economics and foreign trade, our country has the size of a confetti and is further divided into a range of skills. I have no problem with extensive regionalization, on the condition that we coordinate between entities. Sometimes this coordination seems to me to be a little lacking and the fact that you have confessed that you were not initially involved in this forum on the future of European industry by 2030 also brings me a little frustration. All the more so since you are a former Minister-President of Flanders and this is a bit of a catchy, because with strategies of this kind, it is important that you fully participate in your role as coordinator, even if it is only that role.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u95	Minister, a while ago, this theme was quite prominent in the news. Insurance company AG brought the Feminapolis on the market, whereby women can receive domestic help if they are affected by breast cancer. In other words, they will receive a certain amount, which will allow them to buy other things as well as domestic help. In order to keep this insurance affordable, a risk analysis was carried out by the insurer, whereby certain target groups are excluded. You stated that you had an investigation of this policy carried out by the control body FSMA. Would I like to ask if this investigation has taken place in the meantime? Have you also consulted with AG? What are the further steps in this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u96	Mr Klaps, I have also taken this dossier to heart. On 5 October, in response to your question, I expressed my concern because a large group of women were excluded from Femina insurance in advance. If there is an effective need for additional financial support in the case of a serious condition such as cancer, additional coverage through insurance products may be interesting. In my view, there is a social need in this area. The question of whether this need should be met by statutory health insurance or by a private initiative is a matter of choice which, first and foremost, belongs to my colleague for Health and Social Affairs. However, it must be clear to the public that this is a mere lump sum which is paid when cancer occurs. It is therefore certainly not a full substitute for health insurance. Moreover, such insurance may not be discriminatory unless the possibility of such discrimination is provided for in the rules. In this context, as I explained in the Chamber's plenary session and in order to objectify the discussion on Femina insurance, I asked the FSMA to examine this product. The FSMA qualifies Femina insurance as a mere invalidity insurance and not as a health insurance. Taking into account that the Femina insurance is merely an invalidity insurance, insurers should not comply with the provisions on the segmentation of the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance when concluding such insurance and the FSMA is not empowered to review the accreditation conditions against these articles. However, it is not because the accreditation conditions do not fall within the scope of those provisions that they should not be objectively justified by a legitimate purpose and the means for achieving that objective should not be appropriate and necessary. Therefore, the FSMA asked Unia for an opinion on whether the discrimination applied in respect of certain groups could be considered admissible when defining the product Femina. Unia has also given an opinion. Unia concludes that today, based on statistical data and scientific literature, it is not sufficient to assess whether the segmentation criteria used are disproportionate. Unia will only be able to do this over time. Unia asks AG Insurance to monitor its development through a periodic review and a permanent exchange. Unia considers an annual evaluation of the Femina insurance scheme to be appropriate. In short: Unia does not say that there is discrimination here. The FSMA's opinion therefore refers in the first instance to Unia's opinion. Second, the FSMA has examined whether further measures can be taken against the commercialisation of the Femina product within the FSMA's powers. The FSMA concludes that there are no grounds to act in the context of the product intervention. Apart from that, my administration also asked for advice from the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. You see, Mr President, how much effort I am making to answer your questions. The Institute concludes that there may be direct discrimination between men and women because Femina insurance is limited to women. From information available through the Foundation against Cancer, it is true that, although the condition is rather rare in men, men can actually get breast cancer. On 8 March last I therefore consulted AG Insurance on the Femina insurance. AG Insurance explained more about the background to the Femina insurance and the VIVAY marketing campaign. During that consultation, AG Insurance explicitly undertook to cooperate constructively and to provide Unia and the FSMA with all necessary information for the annual evaluation. In addition, AG Insurance has also clarified that it is possible for men who would like to register in the Femina insurance scheme. Following the consultation with AG Insurance, we contacted Unia again, but also the organisations Think-Pink and Pink Ribbon that are committed to cancer patients. These contacts show that the organisations working for cancer patients have very different views on Femina insurance. One organisation is clearly in favour of the product, the other finds the product discriminatory. Following our meeting with AG Insurance and following another meeting between AG Insurance and Unia, AG Insurance informed me that it will make some adjustments. So all this energy hasn't been useless after all. What adjustments will AG Insurance make? Firstly, the medical acceptance is revised and limited to two simple questions that are clearer for the applicant insurance company. Secondly, those who have not had backgrounds in the last ten years will soon be able to sign up, while previously the principle of backgrounds has been applied indefinitely over time. Thirdly, if the premiums are not paid, the cancellation will be done by registered letter and not by e-mail. Finally, AG Insurance will continue to investigate very quickly and I hope very quickly whether raising the age to register is a viable card, taking into account the intention to keep the insurance affordable for a wide audience. On the basis of an in-depth study of the file and the various opinions I have obtained on that insurance, I note that there are currently no elements in this file that indicate an infringement of insurance legislation or the law on discrimination. I will continue to follow that file, along with you and many others. If the follow-up by the supervisory authorities concerned would show that the insurance is in breach of the rules, I will of course, whether or not you have asked, not fail to take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u97	Thank you for your very detailed answer and your thorough work on this matter, Minister. The fuss that arose a few months ago, I thought it was a bit of an exaggeration. I understand that this matter attracted attention, but the occurrence of a particular cancer in that policy is only the reason to pay a certain lump sum, which is indeed not comparable to our ordinary health care or other cost-covering policies that would exist. That seems to me to be an essential difference. I never thought there was anything structurally wrong with that policy. Of course, I will leave it in the middle as to whether it is appropriate to register. That is what every consumer must decide for themselves, after having given equally thorough thought to the costs and benefits. If even Unia can't find discrimination, I'm pretty sure it's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u98	Debates of the European Parliament 24260 by Mr Calomne lapsed. Debates of the European Parliament 24274 by Mrs Grovonius will be converted into a written question. Questions No 24338 by Mrs Temmerman and No 24504 by Mrs Dedry are postponed and Question No 2450 by Mrs Dedry 24368 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux. Merged questions Nos 24390 by Mrs Detiège, 24392 by Mrs Gantois and 24404 by Mrs Jadin are also postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 24412 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u99	Last year, almost 800,000 consumer loans were granted to Belgians, according to the Union Professionnel du Crédit (UPC), which accounts for 95% of lending agencies. While almost a third of these loans were used to finance the acquisition of a new or used car which represents a major expenditure for many households, half of these loans were subscribed to finance so-called non-essential expenses, i.e., according to the denominations used by the UPC, they are loans intended for specific purchases such as a smartphone or a couch, or to finance other purposes such as a trip or a big party. This type of credit is growing. In figures, this represents 418,000 consumer credits in 2017, compared to 330,500 in 2013, an increase of 27%. The omnipresence of advertising for this type of credit, in the media, in shops, in banking agencies and in trade shows, certainly explains in large part this increase. Moreover, the subscription of a loan, with or without motive, is becoming faster and easier. Minister, we have worked a lot under previous legislatures to secure this sector because we know it has a potential risk of over-indebtedness. Limiting advertising, increasing information for credit takers, increasing the obligations of credit providers are prerequisites for this type of credit not to lead any right to financial hardship and over-indebtedness, which has been steadily increasing for years. Is it not to be feared that the increase in consumer credit will lead to an increase in cases of over-indebtedness? Are current obligations met or are complaints and investigations handled by the FPS Economy? The form as currently used appears to be more lender protection than an improvement in information to policyholders. Shouldn't we be working on this? What about the regulations of the Code of Economic Law? Despite increasingly precise legal obligations, over-indebtedness is increasing. There are no doubt other reasons for this, such as lower purchasing power and higher prices. A short time ago, you were asked questions on this subject. Do your services monitor compliance with legal prescriptions applied to credit providers? Do you have data on complaints?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u100	Mrs Lalieux, I have a lot of information for you. I will answer your question on three different aspects. First, does not the increase in consumer credit lead to an increase in cases of over-indebtedness? The National Bank's 2017 report shows that both the number of credit agreements and defaults is decreasing by 0.5% and 2.7%, respectively. In addition, past experience shows that credit records are not necessarily the cause of the financial problems faced by some people. Secondly, with regard to the legal obligations applicable to lenders, I have three obligations, specifically the duties of information, advice and prudence. These obligations have not been fundamentally modified since the transposition of the European Directive into Belgian law in 2010. These three obligations form the basis of the consumer credit analysis which the lender must always carry out. In this context, I have prepared an action plan as follows: - the preparation by the SPF Economy of a guide which provides the credit sector with a comprehensive reference framework: this guide has already been discussed with the sector and with the organizations to combat over-indebtedness and is currently being finalized; - enhanced controls with lenders on the analysis of consumer solvency: this survey is under way; - optimisation of the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers. Thirdly, with regard to controls and complaints, I can tell you that the checks are carried out, on the one hand, on the basis of the analysis of the reports collected by the point of contact of the SPF Economy and, on the other hand, on the basis of initiatives specific to the SPF. In 2017, we registered 237 complaints in the area of consumer credit and 107 controls were carried out by the Economic Inspectorate. The consumer credit advertising controls revealed infringements in one third of the controlled advertisements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u101	Thank you, Minister. An action plan is needed. I hope that once the guide for the sector in the frame of reference is finalized, we will have access to it. In view of the results of the checks: 107 checks and more than one third of violators relate to advertising; strengthening controls is therefore important. Advertising for credit is everywhere. This sometimes makes you want to make several of them and make purchases a little too impulsive. I'll come back to your action plans later to find out exactly what's going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u102	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 24481 by Mr Friart and Questions Nos 24524 by Mrs Dierick, 24623 by Mrs Gerkens and 24609 and 24693 by Mr Delizée will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u103	Minister, depositing money in a bank is increasingly expensive. That is how we can sum up the principle of bank charges which are constantly increasing! According to figures published by the SPF Economy, a Belgian household pays an average of EUR 51.60 per year for this purpose, with an increase of between 2 and 3 % per year in recent years. What are bank charges? As the word indicates, these fees cover management fees, transaction fees, bank card charges, linked to an account, credit card or international transfer, penalties for exceeding the authorized number of transactions and interest charged in case of overdraft. That is the financial reality! However, it appears that the amount and collection of these costs are not always justified. Indeed, for example, how can we justify that from 36 withdrawals of money, the customer has to pay the 37th? That makes no sense to me. Similarly, management fees are often too high, since most people manage their own accounts and transfers from their computers. This is true of the fact that, from one bank to another, the costs vary, not to mention the hidden costs that the customer is not aware of. Minister, you promise that a rate simulator will soon be posted on the Wikifin.be independent portal, so that any consumer can easily compare these rates. All right, but this is a European obligation, with Directive 2014/92 to be transposed by 18 September 2016. When will this comparator be posted online? Will there be an information campaign? It seems that clients often do not know how much they are charged for managing their bank charges. Similarly, will the number of free withdrawals of money be re-discussed? I've asked you a lot about this. He was the subject of a gentleman's agreement a few years ago and I think 36 withdrawals of money a year is ridiculous. Furthermore, Febelfin reportedly stated that it did not see any problem with these bank charges and argued that the costs charged by the banks do not cover operating expenses. What about it? Do you have any figures on this issue? Between customers who are only very rarely addressed to the counter, who manage their own accounts via the net and drastic reductions in staff in the main banks, we do not see how these fees are increasing today. I mean, you said you were going to meet Febelfin. Can you tell us who will be around the table, apart from the banks? Consumer representatives? Representatives of alternative or other funding organizations? Will you see this gentleman's agreement again?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lalieux, on 17 March, the newspaper De Tijd published an article which shows that, over the last two decades, bank charges have increased considerably more than the figure for the consumer price index. In the period 1998-2017, bank charges increased by 80 per cent, while inflation had simultaneously increased by 46 per cent. To reach this conclusion, the newspaper relied on figures from Belstat. At my request, the Price Observatory is already following the evolution of charges for a current account. At my request, the Price Observatory has developed a new methodology for monitoring the evolution of the cost of a current account. A first report has been prepared on this subject and is contained in the 2017 quarterly report of the Price Observatory. The calculation is based on all current accounts and/or current account packages, of course with some exceptions: offers by a representative selection of eight banks. The cost of a current account depends heavily on the customer's profile and whether or not a credit card is linked to that current account. Customers who still require a lot of paper will pay more than those who do everything electronically. Compared to January 1, 2016, the cost to be determined is 1.3% as of January 1, 2017 in relation to other user profiles, the cost decreased by 5.8% for the electronic user without a credit card. In this profile, relatively more expensive account users have turned to relatively cheaper accounts. Current accounts without credit cards have incurred significantly less costs than current accounts linked to a credit card. For accounts without credit cards, the user with electronic profile paid 21,40 euros on 1 January 2017 compared to 29,46 euros for the traditional profile. For accounts with credit cards, the price that the electronic profile pays is virtually the same as the price that the traditional profile pays. Consumers who are active and compare the different current accounts can therefore find interesting prices. Several banks already offer free online current accounts with a free payment card. Consumers will have free access to an objective website that compares fees between different banks. The fee will be included in a document called the tariff information document. This document contains a list of minimum 10 and maximum 20 most representative services and corresponding charges for each service. This tariff information document and the services in question must be the subject of a Royal Enforcement Order, which is currently being prepared by my administration. The comparator site can then be posted online. This provision concerning the Payment Services Directive shall enter into force on 31 October 2018. I will ensure all necessary publicity regarding the exercise of this comparator website, so that consumers are fully informed about it. The Financial Services and Markets Authority (FSMA) is developing this comparator website and has assured me that the site will be operational by the end of September. The comparison of the evolution of bank charges over the last 20 years does not learn anything if we do not observe a change in services over time. The services now linked to a current account are not the same as those of 20 years ago. The banking landscape and financial transactions have changed significantly over the last two decades, inter alia as a result of several major mergers and takeovers, but also technological developments. At present, and taking into account the evolution of technology, new payment channels are developing in the market, such as the development of mobile payment or contactless payment cards. From the consumer's point of view, it is important that the increase in fees should also be accompanied by an effective improvement in the services provided to the customer. That is why I invited Febelfin to a consultation, in order to give the necessary explanations as to the increase in costs. If it turns out that there is a need to question other stakeholders about the evolution of bank charges, I will certainly do so. At present, there is no provision in the gentlemen's agreement to update the number of free withdrawals. The provision of the European Directive on payment accounts has also had the effect of obliging banks to extend the use of their services and offers to Belgian consumers in basic banking services throughout the European Union. In any event, banks must in principle set their tariffs in a transparent manner via the list of tariffs which is communicated to the consumer in advance. The latter can thus know the costs in advance and therefore make play the existing competition between the banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u105	Minister, we have been waiting for the simulator since 2016. I hope it will really be ready in September or October 2018, two years later. It's important to compare prices and allow people to change banks, if necessary. Recently, there has been a small acceleration in the possibility of changing banks, as administrative procedures must now be carried out by banks and more by people. Has the consultation with Febelfin ever taken place on bank charges?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u106	It's planned!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-28-54-commissie-ic860x.u107	So, I'll come back to you in two months to re-examine you. Finally, the gentleman's agreement seems to me completely outdated. As long as you're talking to Febelfin, why don't you renegotiate this gentleman's agreement? It no longer corresponds to any reality and I think you could put it on the negotiating table. I hear that the fee increase is for better services. Of course not! We know that 20 years ago, everyone didn't have a computer at home to make their own transfers, etc. Services have decreased, but fees have increased. I will allow myself to come back to this question.
