ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the sitting. As it has not informed us, pursuant to Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure, question No. 24991 by Mrs Grovonius withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u2	Mr Prime Minister, my question was put five months ago. We then learned that there were problems with the appointment of new directors in a crucial period at bpost. In May 2017, there was a small crisis there. As much as 43 percent of the stock market value was lost in that month. The board had to do it with nine instead of twelve directors. The State, as the main shareholder, has to decide whether to extend or replace two French-speaking and one Dutch-speaking directors, and this apparently did not work. CD&V and N-VA have been arguing about the Dutch-language post for months. Bpost was not the only appointment file blocked in the government during that period. A Vice-President of the European Investment Bank had to be appointed as a matter of urgency. Here, N-VA and MR would insist on placing their candidate. All this is clearly not in line with the electoral pledge on political appointments, because it would also be removed. Despite these promises, we note that this old age still stands in the way of efficient governance. Prime Minister, can you confirm that political twitching ensures that bpost has only 9 directors in this critical period? Maybe things have changed in the meantime. What is the procedure for such appointments? How can it be avoided that management is mortgaged in the majority by political games? How do you explain that the government is still falling into this trap despite the election promises? When will the appointment be completed both within Bpost and with the European Investment Bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u3	As you know, appointments to public companies are regulated by the 1991 Public Enterprises Act and by a corporate governance charter. Since the law amendment came into force in January 2016, the board of directors has a maximum of 12 directors including the delegated director. The members of the Management Board shall be appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders on a proposal from the Management Board and from the candidates proposed by the Reward and Appointment Committee. The Governing Board shall define the general policy and strategy of Bpost and supervise operational management. On the basis of the new corporate governance charter of bpost, the remuneration and appointment committee and the board of directors shall propose only candidates meeting the required competence profile. That was a government commitment. To meet that requirement, a competence profile was developed and attached to the corporate governance charter. It will therefore have to be taken into account in future appointments, as well as other criteria such as linguistic parity and gender diversity. The directors proposed by the government will have to be at least one third of persons of the opposite sex. Those appointments are an important theme for the future of bpost. In due course, in accordance with the law and charter, the government will propose quality profiles that can meet the challenges facing bpost. Pending the appointment, Bpost will not be without a board of directors, as the outgoing directors will continue to sit, pending the arrival of their replacements. As regards the role of Vice-President of the Management Committee of the European Investment Bank, which is reserved for the Benelux countries and for which Belgium should propose a name, the reflection exercise will continue, on the same grounds of concern and with the same requirements as regards the profile of the candidate to be elected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u4	Mr Prime Minister, my questions were very specific, but I am getting a whole explanation showing that there is still no political agreement on the appointment of the Prime Minister. You say you'll work with a profile. In itself, I think it is very good to say in advance what one expects of a driver and what profiles are sought, but I have the impression that it is hiding that there is a discussion within your government. The same applies to the European Investment Bank. If you say there's a thought exercise going on, it means that everything is still blocked. I think it is very important, Prime Minister, that the best candidates, with clear profiles, should be sought as objectively as possible for the appointment of persons in such important positions. I therefore hope that, when you have completed the discussion on the profiles, we in Parliament will be able to take note of those profiles and the conditions that you put forward. In this way, we can also monitor appointments in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Luykx's 25679 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u6	Prime Minister, the French Parliament adopted a resolution calling for Belgium to participate in the Francophony Summit in Brussels in 2022. The fact that Brussels is chosen as its location is surely a Community provocation, because Brussels is not a French-speaking city at all. It is an institutional and factually bilingual, and originally Dutch-speaking city that has fallen prey to francophonous imperialism. Such a summit has never been organised in Brussels in the past. As a sign of francophone imperialism, this motion for a resolution can count. The resolution itself will not contain a single word on the presence of Dutch speakers in Brussels or on the bilingual status of Brussels. This is also made clear in point h of the explanatory statement, which talks about 'Bruxelles en tant que ville francophone'. There's more. The French Community not only wants to organise this summit in Brussels, it also wants the federal government to pay for it. In the meantime, I have heard that a party of your government is opposed to the latter. Hence my questions. Firstly, what is the government's position on the organisation of such a summit in Brussels? Does the federal level support the candidacy of the Brussels-Capital Region to act as a host city for a Francophony Summit in 2022? Secondly, does the federal executive, as requested by the resolution, participate in the consultation on the organisation of this summit? Thirdly, does the federal government, as requested by the resolution, participate in a committee to promote Brussels' candidacy? Fourthly and finally, does the government take any initiative to support such an event in any way, financially, logistically, diplomaticly or otherwise? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u7	Mrs Pas, I did receive a letter on 19 June 2018 stating that Parliament of the French Community had adopted a resolution. After that, I had informal consultations with Prime Minister Rudy Demotte. According to the information received, it would be the possible organisation of such a summit in 2022. It is not today that a decision has to be taken. The next OIF summit, in 2020, will take place in Tunis. That's for sure. It is in Tunis that the decision should be taken before the next summit, in 2022. An additional fact, and that is where we certainly disagree, is that many international meetings are organized in Belgium, and in Brussels in particular. This turned out last week, with a European summit and a summit with the ASEM countries. We have also organised a NATO summit over the last two years. It is clear that Belgium, and Brussels in particular, has a credible experience of organising international meetings. That's an asset I'm proud of.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have asked you four specific questions, but I have not received an answer to some of them. You say that the decision will not be taken until 2020 at the summit in Tunisia, but the question is, of course, what attitude the federal government will take there. You have already held informal consultations, but the question remains as to what attitude this government will adopt in the formal consultation, whether it will be supported financially in any way or not. It is easy to say that everything is organized in Brussels, but it is the logic itself that the Francophone Summit is organized in a francophone country and a francophone city. Brussels is still not until further notice. We will certainly continue to monitor this and we will not wait until 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Caprasse's 26191 was postponed. I understand that Mr Delannois is also stuck in traffic. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeulen's 26296, 26297, 26355 and 26450 are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 26312 by Mr Van Hees and 26313 by Mr Hedebouw were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, last year, Secretary of State Francken tabled a bill on residence, which once again makes it possible to intercept illegal immigrants who hide in a home. That dossier was put on hold after the immigration lobby in Wallonia and Brussels had unleashed an unprecedented one. The bill was actually filed at the request of the Foreign Affairs Office, which had already sounded an emergency cry in 2014 saying that it is impossible for them to expel illegal immigrants from the country when they are hiding in a home. After all, entry into a home still requires the consent of an investigating judge, but usually they refuse to cooperate. The Department of Foreign Affairs was therefore expressly asking the party to allow residence in such cases without an order from an investigating judge. The draft law, which was finally tabled, did not respond to that at all. It not only maintains the intervention of the investigating judge, just what the Department of Foreign Affairs wanted to get rid of, but also, because of all kinds of unrealistic procedural rules, the design is also aimed at giving illegal immigrants hiding in homes every opportunity to escape the Foreign Affairs Office for the time being. It is a particularly weak draft law that will completely miss its goal and we were therefore pleased that it would be revised. Mr. Prime Minister, you have drawn that file to you. In January, you said that you would listen to all the comments and report back to the government and to Parliament. Just before the summer recess, I wanted to question you about this during Question Time, but the President of the Chamber refused my question because of a lack of topicality. Hence my questions at this committee meeting. Can we expect an amended bill in this legislature and, if so, when? Will the original draft law be substantially tightened up, as I hope, or will it be further diluted? What are the main lines of the adjustments you have in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u11	Mr President, in response to the concerns expressed about the draft legislation on residence, I decided to allocate sufficient time for consultation to examine, firstly, the principles of law involved, secondly, the possibilities for a compromise on specific points, and thirdly, to take my responsibility by reporting to the government and Parliament. Without imposing strict timing on myself, I have had discussions with specialists from the legal world and civil society. Consultations are currently continuing. In due course, I will certainly inform the government and then Parliament about the outcome of that consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, you said you would inform us in due course. Well, that sounds a bit to me like immediate. We shall see whether it will come at all in the next seven months. After all, it is becoming a constant fact that you draw the files that you cannot get out of and that you will not be heard from afterwards. Even a symbolic file like the protocol order disappears. I will also ask you about a state of affairs in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u13	Mrs. Grovonius, I will show you some clemency. I would have said that I would like to ask your question. 24991 considered withdrawn, but you still came. I assume that you have had a lot of congestion on the Walloon motorways towards Brussels. So I give you the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u14	Mr. President, Prime Minister, my question is a little dated. First of all, I will quote from your Secretary of State Philippe De Backer last April: "There is no doubt that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel. It's clear: point to the line! There is no discussion on this. But today we are in a political context and Europe sees Jerusalem as part of the negotiations for a two-state solution." It is in these terms that Mr. De Backer spoke in an interview about Jerusalem, while a few weeks earlier, in plenary, you made it clear to me that, according to the government, President Trump's statement about the transfer of the American embassy to Jerusalem was not in conformity with international law and threatened the peace process. You told me that you condemned this unacceptable statement by the American president, who was just throwing oil on the fire. It must be noted that the statements of your Secretary of State are at issue. I would therefore like to ask you three questions, Prime Minister. How do you intend to denounce Mr. Backer? What is the government's position on the status of Jerusalem? Is the two-State solution in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u15	She had the honesty to quote the entire statement, including the point about the negotiated status of Jerusalem. I keep exactly every word I have spoken on behalf of the government in Parliament and on several occasions. We are in favour of a negotiated two-State solution. That is the point that I was keen to express formally to the United Nations both when I met the President of the Palestinian Authority and the Israeli Prime Minister. We will therefore continue to mobilize for this solution, which is in line with the various United Nations resolutions. To supplement your information, you certainly also know that, after answering your question in plenary meeting, I undertook to include the item in the next Council of the European Union to ensure that the European Union, at the highest level, confirms its support for the two-State solution and for the necessary negotiation in a peaceful approach in this region of the world. That is the position of the Belgian Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u16	Mr Prime Minister, thank you for reminding us of the official position of the Belgian Government and I invite you to ensure that this position is widely defended by the Belgian Government outside.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hedebouw's 26536 was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, according to the press, even if you still hesitate as to how to communicate it, the Kern would have decided on the replacement of the F-16s. It'll be the F-35. In fact, this is not really a big surprise, since we knew from the outset that the government would submit to the diktat of a NATO dominated by the American military-industrial complex. Prime Minister, with regard to the call for tenders, was all this staging really necessary, knowing that the choice was made from the start? Do you confirm the assertions in the press that, in 2013, then Defence Minister Pieter De Crem had confirmed to NATO, without consulting the then government, that Belgium would develop a stealth aircraft capability and that in 2017, the current Defence Minister - more for a long time - Steven Vandeput had confirmed this choice? This obviously leads to the choice of the F-35, the only stealth aircraft. Moreover, the review of the specifications shows a strong emphasis on infiltration and less attention to the flaws of the F-35, such as air control or air combat. Why did your government postpone the announcement of the choice to replace the F-16 after the communal elections? Is it because of a political disagreement within the majority or, perhaps more importantly, because of a difficulty in justifying to the voting taxpayer, in the midst of an electoral campaign, that he will have to bear an overall long-term financial burden of EUR 15 billion for devices used to kill? Do you confirm that Kern has decided to opt for the F-35? You looked like you were doing a little mine, denying the thing. Has Rafale's offer been taken into consideration? Finally, what is the cost to the F-35? What about the higher costs, also revealed by the press, that operating costs would not amount to EUR 140 million, but to EUR 247 million per year, which is still slightly higher. Do you also confirm that the F-35 software would remain entirely under American control, which would mean that our Defence would be completely dependent on the interests of the United States? In the same line, do you confirm - even if the Pentagon has done so and it is no longer necessary for you to do so - that after 17 years of development, the F-35 still show 263 manufacturing defects? The choice of the F-35 is obviously linked to its nuclear capability. The government has always stalemated on this point when we know that it is decisive. With regard to the stakes of denuclearization on the planet, is he responsible, Prime Minister, for opting for this nuclear capability? I would like to ask this fundamental question again. Is it really necessary to replace the F-16s, given that it is EUR 15 billion in total, which will not be invested in the social or environmental sectors or in other much more useful expenditure? If the defence option were just defence, not interventionist policy, we could continue to use the F-16s for several years, and we would not be obliged to replace them today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u19	Prime Minister, the press has announced these days that the government would have decided to buy 34 new F-35 bombers and that you would still have "a line of communication to be determined". I will not stop at the technical details, because it is up to the Minister of Defence to respond. I will focus on the political question posed by this market of the century of 15 billion over forty years. This decision would take place at a time when the market in question is the subject of a series of technical, strategic and political controversies. Let's start with the financial question. The Italian Court of Auditors has determined that the F-35 purchased in Italy is twice as expensive after the award of the contract. However, we are in a significantly different situation, since Italy is a partner of the F-35 programme while Belgium is going to buy it, as they say on the shelf. This raises the issue of the allocation of significant resources to Defence, while health care and mobility are in great need. The second controversy is technical. We have had a lot of discussions in this room about the possible extension of the F-16s, most of which date back to 1988 or 1990. One might wonder why this decision should be made now when it was possible to extend the lifespan of the F-16s. Finally, the controversy was also political. We know that everything has changed since Donald Trump became president of the United States and promoted his America First doctrine. It was not known that this doctrine was also valid for allies. In this context, you decide to buy the bomber fighters. I would point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this choice had been made even before a strategic defence plan was drawn up. You will remember, Prime Minister, that the formal decision of the majority to replace the F-16s had been taken before we knew in what configuration our Defence would evolve in the years to come. This is proof of the hasty nature of this decision, moreover taken under duress. I come to my questions, Prime Minister. Could you tell me when this decision was made in a restricted office? Could you explain the reasons for choosing the F-35? Did the 14 October deadline imposed by the United States Ambassador play a role? I hear, moreover, that the ultimatum would have been postponed. Finally, when will you - yourself or the Minister of Defence - ask for the Military Purchases and Sales Commission to be convened so that the representatives of the Nation can appreciate the ins and outs of this extremely important decision, both for the geostrategic and budgetary future of this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u20	Prime Minister, there seems to be little doubt as to the imminence of the government's choice in favour of the bomber fighter and U.S. drones. I would therefore like to know exactly what is happening. If that were to be the case, I must admit that for several months now Parliament has been feeling swept away in this choice of heavy equipment. You yourself announced that you wanted to be in the European Union's defence cockpit. For now, it seems you're wrong. By buying American technology, you'd be stabbing the back of European Defence and the ambition of a European political Union. Indeed, a truly politically influential European Union can only be conceived if it has strategic autonomy. By entrusting the Americans with our aviation through the purchase of this equipment, we would depend on their technology, such as embedded artificial intelligence, for it would remain the full property of the United States. In a way, when we were planning to buy American aircraft, we would ultimately only be the tenants of a technology that would continue to be entirely owned by the Americans, in terms of both development, operation and maintenance. Our combat aircraft and drones would take off or remain on the tarmac, depending on the interests of the United States and not the interests of Europeans. It would be a choice that does not go at all in the direction of an autonomous development of our European security, even if I am a partner of a strong link with the United States. It's not contradictory. In order to maintain this link with the United States, one must be able to be a power in political and security matters. I'd like you to shed some light on this. At cdH, we have always considered this famous RfGP to be a decoy. In reality, the dice were punctured from the start. It is enough to see the number of manufacturers who have withdrawn throughout the procedure! Finally, we only have a choice between two planes. If we choose the RfGP procedure, we are moving towards a politically disastrous choice. At the industrial level, there are also important challenges and issues. If this big commercial deal were to be confirmed and we prefer an "in-depth strategic partnership" – in the words of the Minister of Defence – for tanks, it would seem that this is not essential because we have Walloon technology and we could buy Belgian tank turrets. We preferred not to go through a tender system and we chose to enter into this strategic partnership with France. Where we had imagined that such a partnership could take place on the state-of-the-art technology of European bomber fighters, we were told that this was not possible for legal reasons! It is quite surprising that, depending on the interests and agendas that we do not have, in some cases, there is a choice of in-depth strategic partnerships, from "over-the-counter" government to government, while technology exists in Belgium, and in other cases, there is a choice of limited consultations that turn out to be biased from the outset. I do not understand the government's logic in this regard. As far as drones are concerned, when the case went through the Military Purchases Commission, the main argument to buy U.S. drones was that we had no choice. If we wanted to have European or transatlantic cooperation, we had to buy the future American drone, which is a developing technology, the Sky Guardian, which will only be available in 2024. However, if this argument was true at the time when we had the case in the Military Purchases Committee, it is no longer true today, since another technology, the B-Hunter, is used by Germany. And it wants us to have cooperation in the development of drones with it and also through a series of Belgian and European industrialists to develop our own technology. I do not understand how we are entering voluntarily with technology which we will not have full possession, full ownership and which will again depend on American goodwill, whereas a European choice is possible. I do not understand why we have not gone through a tendering system. Mr Minister, I must confess that I do not understand why, for all these great equipments, when you have a tremendous leverage to boost European defence and European ambition both in terms of external and internal security, you have made choices that are not justified either geopolitically, industrially or militarily. I absolutely don't follow you in the way you handled these files.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u21	As Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is stuck in the traffic jams, I give Mrs Grovonius the opportunity to read the questions tabled by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u22	Mr President, thank you very much for your flexibility. Prime Minister, after a procedure marked by multiple twists and heavy questions, and as we know that your Minister of Defence will soon fly to Hasselt, we learn through the press that the government has made its choice regarding the replacement of the F-16s. The government would even, contrary to the House of Commons, have been briefed by experts on the potential societal returns proposed by the promoters of the two candidates who are still officially competing in the procurement process for the new combat aircraft. The French proposal therefore seems to be definitively abandoned. On this basis, according to the press, your government's choice would thus be about the American fighter F-35, despite all European logic, and despite the many technical difficulties encountered by this aircraft. If this information is confirmed, it would be, for my group, no longer the purchase of the century, but the riddle of the century, namely how the Belgian government can give the Trump administration guarantees by torpedoing Europe's defence. Prime Minister, can you report on the F-16 replacement file and tell us if your government has made a choice? If so, when was this choice made by your government? According to Belga, I quote: "After two small ministerial councils, one on October 4 and the second last Wednesday, the government has all the elements to make a decision with full knowledge of the matter." What are these elements? Finally, has this dossier been mentioned on the margins of the European Council with the French, British and other delegations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try as much as possible, with pedagogy, to explain a number of elements of the dossier and to say where we are in the procedural field, in the course of my previous speeches in Parliament on the subject. First, there is a general commitment of this government – and I can understand that everyone does not share this opinion – to reinvest loyally with our partners for our external security. This is the meaning of the commitments that are made within the framework of NATO, which are not simple in budgetary terms, which lead us to express the ambition, under this parliamentary term, to stop systematic defence savings in order to find a strategy of investment in collaboration with our partners both, Mr Dallemagne, within NATO and both within the framework of a European defence strategy which – it is true – is relatively recent. Indeed, until a year or two ago, there was much talk of European defence without realising any plans or ambition in this area. There is, therefore, a lot of delay related, no doubt, to the fact that, in the past, European leaders have not measured how important it was for our sovereignty in Europe, for our geopolitical doctrine in Europe, to launch this investment strategy. And it is not in a year or two, by slamming in the fingers, that we can make up for decades of accumulated delay in European defence. That is the first preliminary point, in order not to give the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that, suddenly, by slamming in our fingers, we would have extraordinary capabilities that would allow us, within a few weeks, to become a great power in defence in Europe. It's going to take a little longer. Secondly, you have spoken, Mrs Grovonius, and I thank you, "a riddle of the century". In any case, there has been a scandal of the century in this country. This is the Agusta-Dassault case. This is an approach in which a government has chosen to give up transparency, to give up competition with drifts that have effectively damaged the country's image on a long-term basis. That is why – and we have assumed it in the face of this Parliament – we made the choice, at the time and in conscience, of a procedure to try as much as possible, in transparency with Parliament, to assess the advantages and disadvantages, qualities and merits of the various proposals for the renewal of fighter aircraft. Mrs Grovionus, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it was the previous government that already in 2011 had taken the decision in principle to renew the fighter aircraft. I allow myself this refreshment to those who have short memories. I assume that this executive, in its government agreement, has decided to confirm this decision in principle to renew the fighter aircraft with a RfGP procedure, which I will return to. You are right, Mr. Hellings, to say that there have been some polemics on the subject. More diplomatically, I would talk about lively debates in Parliament and in the democratic field. This is normal because it is an important, strategic investment that places our country in an international geopolitical ambition in Europe and in the rest of the world. It is therefore healthy and natural that debates, exchanges of views and contradictions of opinions and arguments take place. I think it's even healthy for the quality of our exchanges. I committed myself a few months ago in this Parliament to dealing with the matter within the government and then in Parliament from three angles. First angle, the principle of the extension or not of the F-16s. A number of messages have animated parliamentary committees on the subject and have led to the need, in my view, to clarify the arguments in favour of or not the principle of renewal of the F-16s. This is the first point on which the government has continued to work in previous weeks. Secondly, this is what I deliberately call France's proposal and not "the French offer" because, as you know, the French have made the choice – it is their freedom and responsibility – not to introduce a formal offer in the context of this RfGP competition procedure. It is therefore a proposal that has been made. Some elements of the briefing were explained to the Minister of Defence during a briefing. The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers received the information from this briefing with the French and the Minister of Defence. As a result, at my request, the Minister of Defence requested further, more specific information. We asked, for example, Mr Dallemagne, for the price of the French plane, which is not uninteresting when a government has to make a decision on such a matter. We have been confronted with clauses of non-disclosure and confidentiality that we should have signed. If we had signed them, they would have jeopardized the transparent legal competition procedure, under which two State agencies had submitted offers. I have indeed seen that the press has reported legal notes that seem to contradict this; this is not the analysis of our lawyers. The information in question relates to the same data as those covered by the RfGP competition procedure. That is what this is all about. This brings these difficulties, caused by these choices of the French. First, they chose not to introduce a formal offer. Secondly, they chose not to disclose, apart from the non-disclosure clauses, the necessary information that would have allowed us to have all the data at our disposal. The third angle, which is fundamental, is the RfGP procedure, which advances as it should. Rather, Mrs Grovonius, it is a matter of good management, because the government devotes time to being explained precisely what, in the RfGP procedure, are the respective merits of the various projects. We held two meetings of the Council of Restricted Ministers with experts, on the ACCaP topic, and on the subject of societal returns. We addressed the ACCaP issue in order to understand how the comparisons had been made, how the evaluation criteria had been established, and what were the conclusions of the ACCaP Panel that technically analyzed the merits of the various projects. I'm going to social returns. A second meeting was held last week. The scope was wider than that. This is very important, Mr Dallemagne, in connection with defence ambition. In the various programs, we looked at potential societal returns. As it is legitimate for Parliament and the government, we have examined both the legal certainty of the commitments related to societal returns, and the impact of these returns for our country, and more generally for Europe. In this way, we can further develop a European defence strategy. That is where we are now. At the last Kern meeting on societal returns, additional questions were asked and we must soon receive answers to these questions. I therefore confirm that there is not yet a decision taken in the Council of Ministers on this subject. I also confirm what I said to Parliament two weeks ago in the debate, before the elections. I said, Mr Van Hees, that the government's ambition was to make decisions on this. I said that in the government statement in a completely transparent manner. It is certain that the analysis has progressed on the different points of this file, on the different angles of view of this file. There is not yet a decision taken at this stage. Additional questions were asked last week and we expect answers, which are expected to arrive quickly. Finally, I would stress one more element in order to ensure full transparency. We had officially communicated on the subject, not to take anyone short. The question of the validity of one of the two offers under the RfGP: an offer expired on 14 October I think. We asked the Minister of Defence to interview the agency in question to find out how long the offer was valid on the same terms and conditions. Why did we interview her? Because the second offer was valid for a longer period. It was therefore legitimate to know how long this period of validity was confirmed under the same conditions as was decided. We have received a response on this subject. The date of retention of validity was set by the Agency in question on 29 October 2018. That's what I can formally communicate to you. In other words, Mr Dallemagne, I hear your presuppositions, a number of apriori that you have on the file. It's your strictest right and freedom. But when you say that the RfGP is 'piped', these are very serious words. These are very heavy words of meaning. When we say such heavy things, Mr Dallemagne, I am counting on you and the parliamentarians, when the Committee on Military Procurement will have to take an attitude and give an opinion on the subject, to enlighten the whole of Parliament and the government if there is information as serious as the information you provide. In general, Mr President, if I may make a small suggestion, the government must apply very strict ethical rules to ensure neutrality, independence in the analysis of a file such as this, from the beginning to the end of the procedure. We have sometimes exciting debates about political renewal. In this context, it would be useful if we were well informed of the contacts that parliamentarians have with direct or indirect actors in this matter, with companies directly or indirectly concerned. Even if this is not a legal obligation, it would be sound - it is a call that I am making to you - that all parliamentarians declare, for the sake of full clarity and transparency, all the precise contacts (exchange of documents, meetings, telephone contacts, etc.) with companies with an interest in the matter, which can perhaps influence the vision and position of parliamentarians. This must apply to the government, too. I bend to this exercise whenever questions are asked on the subject. This must apply to all parliamentarians and I assume that Parliament will accept this proposal that I am making.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u24	Prime Minister, I can tell you that for the PTB, we have not met any military-industrial lobby.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u25	Except Venezuela!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u26	Was there a Venezuelan offer? (Laughter) You're telling us it's not settled. You swear to us. What is not clear is what is not decided: is it the decision or the way to communicate it? We'll probably see him soon. You're making us a whole laius about transparency. I do believe that this specification was tailored for the F-35. I have given a number of evidence in my question, including the military option, the nuclear option and the stealth of the aircraft. So, here's the thing, I think it's clear. To the point that France did not resubmit an offer for this reason; the dice were punctuated. Why didn't they bid? Because the dice were punctured.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u27	Very briefly and for the clarity of the discussions. You're expressing two untruths in two minutes. First, the RfGP does not specifically provide for nuclear capability. The RfGP foresees different future developments. That's the first point. When you say that such a country did not submit an offer because the dice were punctured, they are very serious accusations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u28	It is the country itself that says so!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u29	I simply want all the countries which have chosen, unlike Belgium in the Agusta-Dassault case, to set up a transparent procedure, initially saw several interested candidates and then, in the evolution of the procedures, it happened very frequently that there were only two candidates in competition. I suppose you do not mean that throughout Europe the dice are punctuated on these subjects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u30	Mr Prime Minister, I do not know the situation in the other countries of Europe, but I know that in the case of the replacement of the Belgian F-16s, we do have a specification that has been tailored for the F-35. The nuclear option is a good example: you reject this by saying that it is not in, but we know that it is part of, precisely, the unsaid and the lack of transparency of the file. This is one of the problems: you are evacuating the question of the nuclear option of the debates by saying that it is for later - precisely because it is part of the unsaid!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u31	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u32	So, on the cost: you are a government that is breaking social rights, which is in no way in the energy transition, worse, which will decide on Friday a SNCB management plan that will break this railway tool that would be an alternative precisely for another environmental policy. There is also the decision for the F-35 – because we will soon know, in a few days, that you have decided in favour of the F-35 – which shows a total bid in the United States. They're expensive planes, they're full of flaws, everyone says. Who chooses the nuclear option? Even if you claim that this is not the case, it is a plane that submits us to the decisions and interests of the United States. Finally, it is a submission – beyond the very choice of the plane – to an interventionist option from the United States and NATO. I think it would be time to take stock of the military interventions of NATO and the Western countries, including those in which we have participated, to see how catastrophic this is in terms of human losses, of course, but also in terms of the resulting social, economic and political chaos, as well as the development of terrorism and the influx of refugees, which we then refuse to accept in our country. This record is catastrophic. This choice for the F-35s to replace our F-16s is so that we can no longer have a defence, but an attack: a military capability to intervene, not to defend our country, but to intervene beyond, in a mode that I can only treat as an imperialist.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u33	Mr Yüksel, you were not present, so you were unable to ask your question. Of course, you can give your reply. You have also heard the Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u34	Prime Minister, I understand that the offer from the F-35 until 29 October 2018 is valid. I assume that the government will take a decision by then, if it respects that date. If the choice falls to the F-35, then that choice is not evident for two reasons. A lot of technical matters need to be cleared up. Geopolitically, we are faced with a state that has declared a trade war to the European Union and thus to our country. So that's not obvious. My group, and also the government, must make an informed choice, which is in the interests not only of our country and our partners, but also of our citizens and businesses. That's definitely important. Together with you, we hope that the choice will take account of all the elements mentioned. Finally, as you mentioned in earlier explanations, we need to consider our role in a possible European project in the longer term. That too is important. I hope that you and the government will take that with you in your final choice, continue on that slope and release sufficient resources and space for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u35	Prime Minister, we decide to buy expensive aircraft before we know what we're going to be able to do with it in the future in a defence Europe! This mistake has already been made several times, by several governments, and we are doing it again here. The government had always promised an open and transparent procedure. Is the procedure open from the moment when there were five competitors at the start and there are only two remaining? Is the procedure open when we know that it is taken in a radical change of geopolitical context? Is the procedure open when we know that we are going to decide under pressure since you are going to have to respond to each other before October 29, in six days' time? Was the procedure transparent? Prime Minister, you have just proposed here the transparency of the agendas of all parliamentarians who eventually – I am not – have links with industry or others. Do you know that your majority in this chamber, in the Defence Committee on March 21, 2018, refused a bill that I had signed that specifically aimed at opening the agendas of cabinet members, military personnel and parliamentarians? I am pleased to see that the green wave has had an effect on you and that you are joining our positions today. You have a great opportunity to work transparently. A petition was tabled in the hands of the Chairman of the Finance Committee and Mr Gilkinet asked for it to be put on the agenda. 38 000 citizens have asked for a debate in the Finance Committee on the budgetary impact of this century's market. I hope that in this new wave of transparency that is dear to you, you will accept and ensure that the Chairman of the Committee on Finance can conduct this debate on the budgetary impact of this huge market. In conclusion, with your European colleagues, including the President of the French Republic and the German Chancellor, you are working on a strategic vision of Defence Europe and I support you in this vision. However, the first move you're going to make is to grant Americans the largest public procurement ever! It's unreadable, it's incomprehensible, and I think it's a political mistake!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u36	Prime Minister, thank you for your explanation. First of all, I note that you are proposing that we hold a meeting of the Military Procurement Committee. A meeting is being convened tomorrow in Parliament and I propose that on the agenda the state of affairs of the matter be included since, if I understand correctly, the decision must be taken in the next few days. That's what you said. Indeed, one of the offers will no longer be valid after 29 October. I guess we won't be waiting for that date. Under American pressure, you have to choose now. I'm asking...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u37	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u38	Yeah, all right. It's the pressure of an American offer. Let's be precise! You don't like to use that word, but I use it. I prefer that we be transparent and clear. It is a question of the validity of the American offer. So, under American pressure, you're gonna have to choose now. Or, then, you will simply have to take the Eurofighter, according to your reasoning, since you finally refused to consider all the offers that were on the table, contrary to your statements last June
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u39	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u40	Yes, I do. Last June, you told the House that you were going to analyze this offer. Finally, you didn't. I'm so sorry. You didn't formally do it. You have just explained why by indicating that confidentiality clauses, from a legal point of view, prevented you from analysing this offer. You have not done so, for reasons that you consider to be legal. I note that, on a regular basis, you are taking legal grounds not to take this matter back to zero and not to take our strategic interests into account. That is my second point, Prime Minister. You said you had two government meetings: one on "technical merit" and the other on "social return", to use your words. But there is a third pillar, geopolitical, which is fundamental in this choice. He is committed to the construction of a Europe of defence. You tell us that we cannot catch up, in a year or two, with the delay of the defence Europe. This is a collective delay, about which everyone takes responsibility. But here, this is not a decision worth a year or two. This is a decision concerning a generation, and even several generations. We'll never have that lever again. In fact, you had the opportunity to leave your mark on defence Europe. Our country had the opportunity to influence the European future. Beyond defence, it is a political construction. It is a matter of asserting a political ambition. We are obviously missing this possibility, seeing it escape. That is the responsibility of this government. There is no question of a delay that we would try to catch up in a year or two. No! In this choice, you have a responsibility to one or two generations in terms of European ambition, European security and strategic autonomy. Indeed, it is, of course, an essential financial lever. In addition, we are going to lag behind in the area of strategic and structural technologies, which would allow us to be truly self-sustaining. All this money we spend on American equipment, we will not be able to allocate it to our needs. Finally, I must confess that - like others - I am somewhat surprised by your implication about our contacts. Yes, I am talking to all the manufacturers and governments, because I appreciate being kept informed and because, the information I do not receive from your government, I am trying to get it from other sources: American, British, French.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u41	Mr Dallemagne, what information are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u42	I am thinking in particular of prices, capacities, societal returns, etc. You're telling us you're holding information. But you don't pass them on to us. I'm sorry about that. That's why I'd like to know what game we're playing. It's my responsibility, and I claim it. It is curious on your part to ask us such a question, when you have refused to work with Parliament in a transparent manner, as other colleagues have pointed out. I would add that there is an absolutely extraordinary collusion between your government and Lockheed Martin. I recall that it was representatives of this company who came here to tell us that our F-16s were out of order and could no longer fly before advising the government to buy new combat aircraft. It is therefore a little unusual for you to claim that we would be subject to certain influences. You know, Prime Minister, we are only opposition parliamentarians, we know the modesty of our role, and we know that our decision-making power is infinitesimal. Having said that, I will continue to claim that we need to get a minimum of information, which I do not receive from the government. Once again, I am very surprised to hear such insinuations coming from a government that does not hesitate, during a procedure of replacement of bomber fighters, to maintain such close contacts with a supplier of such aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u43	Mr President, for the proper form and for the record of our proceedings, I must explain once again that the French did not submit an offer, Mr Dallemagne, but merely a proposal, which we then examined. However, I do not have the means to compel them to provide us with information that they refuse to transmit to us. I am thinking in particular of the price of their planes. Secondly, I persist and sign, in history - and I measure the words I use - military purchases from this country, never has a procedure been so transparent and has, at this point, allowed exchanges between Parliament and the government with a view to constantly sharing information. As far as societal returns are concerned, I was informed last week. It goes without saying that Parliament must be informed of societal returns and comparisons within the framework of the ACCaP. That is the meaning of the work carried out by the Military Procurement Commission. The Commission will have to consider this subject before a formal and final decision on such a matter is taken by the Council of Ministers. This is the procedure, and it will be followed. Finally, the issue of transparency applies to the government, on the understanding that every week it is a matter of the freedom and duty of the majority or opposition parliamentarians to question the government about the nature of the contacts between ministerial cabinets, collaborators, the minister and the various actors in the matter. It is the duty of the Minister and the Prime Minister to provide information to Parliament. You have instruments for that and you are right to use them. In the same way, it seems to me that transparency lies more in simply noting in a register that enters and leaves this building. That's what this is about. The proposal concerning Parliament is a register to record entries and exits within it. As is the case in the Anglo-Saxon countries, there should indeed be, before the deliberations of the Military Procurement Committee, statements by parliamentarians indicating the nature of the contacts, dialogues and conversations that take place with the actors on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u44	Mr President, of course I thank the Prime Minister for these points of answer. I would still like to invite him to show a little more coherence. Prime Minister, you have just shown us the value of having a register of lobbies in Parliament for a few moments. But, Prime Minister, tell your party, and shout loudly, because until today, it is your party that refuses to put this register of lobbies in place. Prime Minister, there is a need for consistency on this issue. Nor can you say that we did nothing before you and at the same time accuse a government, in which you were already involved, of having, at some point, considered the advisability of replacing these planes. It is also a matter of consistency, because it is not in the current cacophony of the government that this issue can move forward. More coherence, because you cannot say here that things are completely transparent, whereas Parliament does not have access to all the information on this dossier. You are still not consistent, Mr Prime Minister, when you plead at some point to strengthen a European defence strategy and, at the same time, and in all likelihood, you have chosen the United States. In this case, consistency is clearly not the key word. Far from it! You have also not answered at all the question of the discussions that have taken place at European Council level. I would indeed be curious to know how Mr Macron reacted to this information. Indeed, as you have always told us, you have no doubt led him to believe that his offer could be carefully examined by our government. But you tell us today that this has never been mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u45	The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u46	Mr President, the last word goes to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u47	No, I'm sorry. The incident is closed. I'm the president. Not you, Mr. Gilkinet!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u48	The last word goes to parliamentarians. That is a democratic principle, Mr President!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u49	Mrs. Grovonius had the last word. We're not doing another trick again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u50	It is not because you are of the majority that you can do anything, Mr. President. The last word goes to parliamentarians. It is a principle of democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u51	It has been done! It's all been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u52	Mr President, Prime Minister, in Tournai, Phase 4 of the modernisation of the Scheldt is under discussion at the level of the municipal authorities. The points relating to the plan of alignment of the facades and to the modification of the communal area will have to be voted on in its communal council. This modernisation work is carried out within the framework of the Seine-Nord Canal project whose socio-economic and ecological stakes are important for Belgium and particularly for the Tournaisis region. They participate in the development of river transport and thus promote the transport of goods by processes that are far less impacting on the planet. When I asked you in committee last year, you said that your government supported this project. You also added that, during your interview on 16 October 2017 with the French Prime Minister, Édouard Philippe, you had received very concrete commitments from the French State. Prime Minister, could you tell me if your government and all its members still support the Seine-Nord Canal project? In the context of the various recent exchanges you have had with the French Government, could you tell me whether any additional firm guarantees have been taken by the French State and local authorities to complete this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u53	Mr.Member, I confirm that in an interview on 16 October 2017 with the French Prime Minister, Édouard Philippe, we had the opportunity to exchange views on this subject and to express Belgium's support, in any case from the federal government, for this project. I saw Édouard Philippe on the sidelines of a meeting on security in Paris on 11 June 2018. I once again put this issue forward and say how important it is for us to make progress on this issue. The French Prime Minister reiterated France's interest in moving forward as well. You know that there is a discussion in France on the question of the financing of this project (the financing share of the French central state and the share of funding in the head of the Regions) and above all a discussion on the control of works. I also met, on the margins of the Wallonia Festivals, Xavier Bertrand, the President of the Region concerned, who, informally, confirmed to me that progress was being made with the French central government and that the track that seems to be confirmed – I am not the spokesman of the French Republic – would be that there is a form of contract control assumed by the Regions in order to give them the ability to leverage to advance the project in question in administrative and financial terms. As you will understand, I am consistent and consistent in this matter. We continue to support this project, which I believe is important across borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u54	Prime Minister, thank you. Let's be clear! I never said that on this issue, you were not consistent or consistent. We fully agree on that. I've actually heard a lot lately. You did not mention it, but there is an ICOMOS alert with a European body that could possibly ask for a moratorium. Perhaps you don't know about it, but in any case, I point out that from the beginning, you are quite consistent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u55	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to take stock with you of the development of the Belfius issue since the holidays. As a reminder, last spring (2017), the federal government voted in favour of the introduction of a share of Belfius' capital into the stock market. At the time, and since then on several occasions and consistently, I had expressed to you on behalf of the Ecolo-Groen Group our scepticism with regard to this hypothesis, particularly in view of Dexia's painful precedent, but also in the interest of maintaining a public bank of 100 % in Belgium alongside other private banks, a bank that would care about the financing of the real economy. When the quarterly results were presented at the end of 2017, the CEO of Belfius clarified the scenario envisaged by the bank, it seems, with the agreement of the government, i.e. the disposal of 30% of the capital in "May-June 2018", which did not take place. According to Mr Raisière, this period could have allowed business banks to probe the market and produce the issuing prospectus. In view of the importance of this dossier for the Belgian economy and the federal government's finances, I would like to obtain some clarification on the development of the case. I am speaking to you, because when I ask the Minister of Finance, he sends me back to the Prime Minister you are. Minister, can you tell me whether the Belfius OPI is still current or whether the government has changed its option? If so, what is the new timetable? If she's abandoned, I'm glad. Who is responsible for its implementation? Do you confirm that this OPI is politically linked to a solution in the Arco file, in the form of compensation for co-operators? What is the status of your return, which you no longer cited on your return? Has the European Commission been asked to agree on this operation under the competition rules? What is his opinion on this? Among the business banks, which global coordinator was appointed? Which business banks may be involved? Under what procedure have these designations been made? What has been done so far and what will be the cost of these benefits? What is the result of the market test conducted by business banks? What preliminary studies have been or will be commissioned, in particular on the consequences on the functioning of the bank, on its risk-taking, on its long-term vision, on the bank's ability to finance the internal economy in the event of even partial market entry?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u56	I can only repeat what I said in the general debate on the occasion of the government statement. First point: in September, the government considered that the time was not right to achieve the Belfius IPO, as the market circumstances were not good. This was also the opinion of the Federal Investment and Participation Corporation (SFPI), which was one of the important opinions we received. Therefore, this means that we will regularly evaluate and analyze the situation, but there is no timetable that is defined. We will monitor the situation in the coming weeks and months on the subject. Secondly, with regard to the Arco dossier, there is an ongoing and intensive dialogue with the European Commission which will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u57	Prime Minister, I have not been unswerving in the debates in plenary, in particular concerning Belfius, nor in the statements made by the government in the media regarding the assessment of market opportunities. I took note of that. I hope that this is a sine die delay because the option that the government has taken in this area is adventurous and problematic, while there is an opportunity to maintain, in another context, a 100% public bank. On the other hand, you will not have forgotten that I have asked you other questions, particularly about the private operators assisting the government in this operation. For example, I asked you specific questions about who was chosen in this framework and the cost of providing technical assistance to the government. In doing so, if you could complete your answer to this question, it would be very kind of you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can indeed complete my answer. The preparation and coordination of the IPO has resulted in financial and legal advice. The SFPI was surrounded by Nomura and Clairfield as legal counsel, Freshfields as global coordinator, Bank of America Merril Lynch, City, J.P. Morgan and UBS. As far as SFPI is concerned, to date this amounts to EUR 2 613 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u59	Prime Minister, thank you for your clarification. The amount you've given seems to me to be particularly high. Of course, we don't make an entry into the stock market blindly, without preparing it. In any event, this is one of the problematic elements of this issue, the main element being the wrong path chosen by the government that does not take into account the conclusions to be drawn from the financial crisis we experienced a few years ago. In conclusion, I hope that the reversal of the market will be an opportunity to look at the issue differently. In any case, we will continue to raise the hope of a public bank that operates in a different way in the market, alongside private banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u60	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeulen has converted 26678 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeulen has also converted 26679 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u61	Mr President, this is a question I have also addressed to Mr Jambon in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, but it seems that you have intervened at the beginning of your budget lines in this matter, Prime Minister. The general state of the so-called "prestigious" federal public buildings is too often catastrophic, as has been highlighted in various reports, such as that of the 2009 Court of Auditors. This is particularly the case for the entire site of the Cinquantenaire. A federal cultural institution, the Museum of Art and History which is housed there has been a political issue between communities for decades. The Cinquantenaire site is home to venerable federal institutions. It contains various collections obtained by various means (acquisitions, bequests, etc.).). It constitutes at the architectural level a significant trace of the Leopoldian era, in a coherent whole and in a framework to the least visible by anyone who is accustomed to it or discovers Brussels. Since it is owned by the Belgian State, the Régie des Bâtiments is naturally responsible for the maintenance and improvement of the premises. The Régie's action programme mentions a few initiatives such as roof repairs and lighting management. A visit or an examination of the premises make discover a shocking situation, if not lamentable on the spot, that I do not detail you here. This is a long-standing situation, but the ministers responsible have never made it a priority by means of a clear budget inscription until the recent NATO summit. At the same time, the staff of the Musée du Cinquantenaire saw cohorts of eager workers disembarked from companies that apparently obtained contracts in haste. Significant work has been done in record time. Dilapidated places have become pimping in a few weeks. They even asked the staff to clear the premises. It was clearly a matter of presenting an interesting image of the venue for the NATO summit gala. More has been done for the President of the United States in a few days than in response to the Museum's long-standing request. Belgian culture can say thank you to Donald Trump! A few hours of off-mission use have been more beneficial to the Museum than decades of use for its mission of valuing our rich history. According to my information, it was the Chancellery's budgets that covered all of this, probably at high prices since it was urgent markets. After returning to the "normal", it is found that more work is being done for the staff who have to reorganise the discarded collections and a superficial quality of the work done, which is more serious. A positive element of all this is a real improvement of the gardens. Prime Minister, why did you choose this place to host the NATO gala? Who made this decision? Were there other prestigious places in the capital? What was NATO's role in choosing this place? Did the government have decision-making autonomy? What is the amount spent on this work? From which budget has it been taken? Do you confirm that this is the Chancellery, at least in part? Who monitored the work in quality, quantity and price? What type of procurement has been chosen? When were public procurement launched? How long should tenders be submitted? How long should the work be completed? What was the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate on this procedure? To what extent has the Régie des Bâtiments been involved in the choice of work to be carried out, the choice of contractors and the monitoring of construction sites? What are the possibilities of recourse to possible malpractices found after this renovation very or too fast? Have they been or will they be implemented? Is this operation foreshadowing a genuine policy of renovation and enhancement of the entire site of the Cinquantenaire?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u62	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, thank you for your interest in the logistical organisation of the NATO summit, which was a great political success for Belgium's image all over the world. I will use this exceptional forum to reveal to Parliament a scoop: initially, the site we had envisaged was not that one. We had considered another site: the museum of Tervuren. But it appeared, in the framework of the task force that led the organization of this event, that the Tervuren site had a number of difficulties in securing it. The security services considered that, given the time constraints and security constraints, the Tervuren Museum site was difficult to secure. For this reason, the task force identified the site of the 50th anniversary as an opportune site, which corresponded to security requirements and was able to respond to a constraint of this summit for which three working dinners and two social dinners had to be organized on the same evening. By organizing them on the same site, we avoided having to secure several sites at the same time. We were also avoiding a multiplication of movements to be secured with convoys. So we decided, and I think it was a good decision, to use the interdepartmental provision. Stricto sensu, this is not the Chancellery's budget, but an interdepartmental provision that was put in place to finance the organisation of this summit. Public contracts were concluded for EUR 544,500, including VAT. It was the Régie des Bâtiments that led these contracts in the context of procedures in accordance with the law on public procurement. It goes without saying that all common law applies. Therefore, if appeals are to be brought, they can be brought. If disputes are to be brought, they can be brought. My information is that the managers of the museum were involved in the organization of the works, under the supervision of the Régie des Bâtiments. I would add that these fees were useful. They have helped to refresh and improve the situation of museums. They were all the more useful as the European Union, when it had to organise last week the summit with the Asian countries, within the framework of ASEM, proposed that we keep this same site. Dinner took place on the same site. Therefore, these costs are not lost. On the contrary, they help to restore the image of Belgium, which is a good thing. Finally, we need to continue to develop - this is the meaning of the Investment Pact, which is addressed in another issue - a more ambitious strategy in terms of infrastructure and heritage. I am very determined to follow the logic of the Investment Pact to work more structurally in such cases. We are working on this, for example, in the Museum of Africa, which will be inaugurated before the end of the year and which will be a very beautiful and impressive achievement, reflecting our country's international ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u63	Prime Minister, thank you for this clarification and take note of the information you have given me. You will understand that it can be seen as vexing that a federal cultural heritage that has been abandoned for too many years - we all keep in mind these catastrophic images of buckets to collect rain - suddenly, in the name of a political emergency, is subject to work that has not really been thought out in the direction of sustainability. However, as you say, it is an opportunity to reserve a better fate for the 50th anniversary, as well as for other federal cultural institutions. As part of the Investment Plan, you are announcing financing in this area. They are indeed urgent. I hope that they can be programmed over time, so as to make the best use of public resources and to avoid any malpractice, which would require work to be resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u64	Prime Minister, a Serbian family has been detained since 14 August at the 127bis centre. The maximum limit of 28 days set by the Royal Decree establishing this family unit has been exceeded. The family's lawyers filed a petition with the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child within the framework of its jurisdiction over individual complaints. This United Nations body is the highest body in charge of monitoring the implementation by States of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (CIDE). Since 2011, this Committee has been competent to receive individual complaints from children whose rights have been violated. Belgium ratified this complaints mechanism in 2014. The Committee ordered the Belgian State to release this family as an urgent and provisional measure, in accordance with the provisions of the CIDE, measures "which are necessary in exceptional circumstances to prevent irreparable harm from being caused to the victim or victims of the alleged violations". However, the Office of Foreigners refused this release on the grounds that the UN Committee would not be competent! Prime Minister, according to a new child-psychiatric report, the children concerned continue to suffer from the psychological consequences of their detention in a closed centre. The harm that may result from more than 30 days of incarceration is immense. Why has the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration not followed the order of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child? This decision not to implement the order of this UN body was taken as you were at the United Nations headquarters in New York to placate the laurels of our country as a human rights defender. Do you consider this position in the United Nations compatible with this non-compliance with a judgement of a body of that same organization? What reasons do you use not to respect Belgium's international commitments, but also the fundamental rights of members of this Serbian family?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u65	Mr President, I shall first address the issue of family units. This file is not new. Indeed, the previous government had decided in 2009-2011 to build 34 housing units on the Steenokkerzeel site. In August 2010, the previous government had released €607,000 in budgets for the drainage of the land. Secondly, a decision such as that taken in the framework of this family unit is always a decision as a last resort, when there is, repeatedly, a refusal to comply with orders to leave the territory. With regard to this decision of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, we have two aspects. A first part, as you mentioned, deals with the release of the centre's family. A second part, which was rejected, concerned the request to suspend the return to Serbia while the case was under consideration by the Committee. These were the two parts of the decision that was communicated. Since then, as you mentioned, the family returned to Serbia on 9 October last, in accordance with the procedure. According to this procedure and on the basis of my information, Belgium must submit its information on the admissibility and merits of the communication by 26 March 2019. We may challenge the admissibility of the communication, separately from the observations on the merits, by 26 November 2018. I take note of two interpretations. One is the Office of Foreigners, which challenges the competence of the Committee in question. In contesting that competence, he therefore challenged the binding nature of the communication of that United Nations Office. The other is that of Foreign Affairs, which seems not to be the same. I have therefore asked for a legal clarification so that in future, without any hesitation or doubt, one can consider whether or not the Committee, in a similar case, is competent. If it is competent and the decision is binding, we must of course implement it. I have always been a proponent of respect for the rule of law; this means that, as a government, we can also appeal or challenge decisions. This also applies within the framework of the United Nations. Here, I can only note with you that, with regard to legal finesses, two interpretations seem to be inconsistent. I asked the Legal Department of the Chancellery to try to centralize a legal analysis of this situation. Thus, in the future, we will be able to avoid hesitations and doubts as to what should be done when dealing with this type of situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u66	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, this type of situation is likely to happen again, as the government has decided to implement a decision that dates, it is true, from a previous legislature. Children will therefore continue to be locked up. There are international monitoring mechanisms under the auspices of the United Nations. This Serbian family and their lawyers appealed. I hear, for the first time, that there is a different interpretation depending on whether we are on the side of the Foreign Office or the FPS Foreign Affairs. I really invite you to listen to the FPS Foreign Affairs, which is the treaty specialist that we have signed, ratified and must respect. When it comes to fundamental rights, in this case the rights of the child, one should not hesitate for a second on the most open and humane interpretation possible, that is, that of the SPF Foreign Affairs, which wants a United Nations body to say, at one point, that the Belgian State exceeds its rights and must make the right of the child prevail over all other rights, such as the right to asylum or the right related to migration. Belgium must fulfil its commitments, but also the children.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u67	As Mr Luykx is not in Brussels at the moment, Mrs Grovonius has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u68	Prime Minister, I wanted to ask you about your discussions with President Kabila at the last General Assembly of the United Nations. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u69	I have met with many Heads of State and Government as part of my presence at the United Nations General Assembly. I also had an interview with President Kabila. This provided an opportunity to address the situation in Central Africa and our concern for peace, stability and security. I have also had the opportunity to refer to the tense bilateral relations between Belgium and the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the light of the decisions to suspend military cooperation, to close the consulates in Lubumbashi and Antwerp, to abolish airlines from Brussels to Kinshasa and to close the Schengen house. All the points were raised. It was agreed that a diplomatic dialogue between Belgium and the Democratic Republic of the Congo would be maintained to consider, if possible, de-escalation in bilateral relations. The question of the electoral process announced at the end of the year was also raised at the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u70	I expected to have a little more details, including Belgium's position on MONUSCO and the role it could play in the electoral process. You are aware that many civil society actors are very concerned about how these elections will take place. I think it is a very good thing that contacts can be made to try to achieve this de-escalation. And I also believe that we must continue to play the important role that we are expected to play in the region, particularly in view of the upcoming elections. I don't know why the Prime Minister didn't want to go into more detail. I imagine that some elements cannot be shared publicly. If necessary, we will discuss with the Committee on External Relations whether closed meetings cannot be held.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-23-54-commissie-ic983x.u71	Debates of the European Parliament 27127 by Mr Blanchart was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 27150 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 27306 by Mr Van Hees will be answered by the Minister for Energy, the Environment and Sustainable Development in the Committee for Business. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 25690 and 27313 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, who could not be present in time, were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 26842 has been postponed.
