ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, We learned with regret the death, on Monday, July 9, 2018, of our former colleague, Michel Tromont. Born in Quiévrain in 1937, his political career was largely in the province of Hainaut. Graduated in Commercial and Financial Sciences from the Hainaut Higher Institute of Commerce and graduated in Applied Economics from the Faculty of Warocqué, our former colleague, in addition to a career in teaching, actively engaged in politics at both the local and federal levels. He was elected communal councillor of Quiévrain, for the first time, in October 1976, and was first appointed mayor, a position he held until 1983. In February 1978, following the death of Léon Hannotte, he entered our assembly as representative of the PRLW in the Bergen district. He especially took into account cases which he felt were also important at local level. In December 1978 he was re-elected as a representative of the People's Party. On 17 December 1981 he became Minister of National Education in the government of Martens V. He advocated greater efforts and discipline in education and set up a number of projects, such as the extension of compulsory education. He was forced to renounce all his terms and duties on 10 June 1983 when he was appointed governor of the province of Hainaut. He will remain for twenty-one years, until 2004, at the head of the Permanent Deputation of Hainaut, and will also preside over the Conference of Provincial Governors. During these two decades he knew how to print his mark, with strength and conviction, to the province he loved. As a strong defender of the provincial institutions, he wanted to make Hainaut a dynamic and prosperous province again. Completely in line with his nature, he was a man who always knew how to handle things. He realised very quickly that state aid had to be concentrated on forward-looking sectors, such as information and communication technology. Michel Tromont also had an innovative view of rural and agricultural development very early on and, more generally, of the relationship between man and agriculture. In this connection, he called for local and family farms to be involved in promoting regional products and protecting the environment. Polyglot, a travel enthusiast, he was also the originator of many international contacts between his province and other parts of the world such as China. This great worker was above all an outstanding manager at the service of his fellow citizens. His sometimes harsh face concealed an avenging and generous character. I addressed to his family – and I greet his son and his daughter-in-law in our gallery – the emotional condolences of our assembly. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was with deep sadness that we learned on 9 July of the disappearance of Michel Tromont, a major liberal figure in the province of Hainaut. Michel Tromont was a solid man with strong convictions. Partner or opponent, each recognizes its many human and professional qualities. A teacher of training and heart, he quickly embraced political commitment. Strongly mobilized locally, he became the mayor of Quiévrain, just one year after his first election to the communal council. He was also a Liberal Member of Parliament and then Minister of Education between 1981 and 1983. Michel Tromont has marked provincial politics, especially as governor of the province of Hainaut, a position to which he will dedicate himself with passion and pride, for more than 20 years. Michel Tromont was very concerned about local development issues, including sustainable agriculture, and he was a visionary in the field of new technologies. He worked his entire career to create new economic and social development perspectives. Many political figures who had the chance to meet him, including my father, were able to appreciate his hard work and salute his extreme rigor. He always exercised his responsibilities in the service of his fellow citizens with benevolence and righteousness. He was also a hunting enthusiast and could be humorous. A small anecdote: at his 20th budgetary session, at the dawn of his retirement, Michel Tromont had surprised the assembly by presenting a compilation, a betsieur, bringing together the most unusual moments of his career, a tasty moment that had not failed to trigger many crazy laughs showing his ability to humor and derision. On behalf of the government, I wish to extend our deepest condolences to his children: Pierre, Luc, Alex and Sabrine. I also have a thought about Marc, his dead son. We know how deeply his family cared for him. Our deepest condolences.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to observe a few moments of silence in memory of our late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u5	I propose that you consider the bill (Mrs Nahima Lanjri, Mr Werner Janssen, Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Catherine Fonck, Monica De Coninck and Mr Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr Tim Vandenput) amending the laws of 11 July 2018 which grant naturalisations, drawn up by yesterday afternoon's Committee on Naturalizations, No. 3247/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u6	I propose that you take into consideration the bill (Ms. Nahima Lanjri, Mr Werner Janssen, Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Catherine Fonck, Monica De Coninck and Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr Tim Vandenput) amending the laws of 11 July 2018 granting naturalizations, drawn up by yesterday's Committee on Naturalisations, No 3247/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u7	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The Committee for Naturalizations will meet at 5:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u8	I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the bill (Mrs Nahima Lanjri, Mr Werner Janssen, Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Catherine Fonck, Monica De Coninck and Mr Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr Tim Vandenput) amending the laws of 11 July 2018 granting naturalisations, Nos 3247/1 to 3; - the legislative proposal (Mr Brecht Vermeulen and Mrs Katja Gabriels and Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu) amending the Law of 21 March 2007 regulating the placement and use of surveillance cameras with a view to improving the consistency of the text and its compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Nos 3217/1 to 4. I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the bill (Ms. Nahima Lanjri, Mr. Werner Janssen, Mrs. Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Catherine Fonck, Monica De Coninck and Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr. Tim Vandenput) amending the Acts of 11 July 2018 granting naturalizations, Nos. 3247/1 to 3; - the draft law (Mr Brecht Vermeulen and Ms Katja Gabriëls and Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu) amending the Act of 21 March 2007 regulating the installation and use of surveillance cameras with a view to improving the consistency of the text and its consistency with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Nos 3217/1 to 4. The report of the Bill No. 3217 will be distributed as a proof of printing. The report of Bill 3217 will be distributed as a test. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u9	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the next few days there will be a new conclave, which is an annual tradition. Then the question arises as to what's in your bookcase, Minister Peeters. What's on the CD&V list? Over the past few years, this has been a solution to the uncertainty of the ARCO cooperative, a fair contribution of the greatest capabilities and the raising of benefits to the poverty line, a promise made by Yves Leterme following the Rerum Novarum celebration in 2008. That wish list seems to have disappeared and you seem to accept the N-VA dominance and the vetos of the Flemish liberals. Worse still, we read in the media that you even appear to be the study service of the N-VA and of Open Vld for their antisocial proposals. Apparently, you want to work with their wet dream, the limitation of unemployment benefits over time, and you are now playing with the idea of reducing benefits even faster. Minister Peeters, I think that's a very bad idea. The work deal is important, but it must not become a poverty deal. Poverty doesn't work. If someone's hungry, they won't apply any better. If someone has to worry even more about invoices that are not paid at the end of the month, they will not find a job faster. I would ask you to opt for an approach that will strengthen people rather than punish them for the next few hours and days. Hence my question, which I might share with a lot of people and perhaps also with a lot of Christian Democrats, whether that really is your ambition. Will you really make people's lives even more difficult? Is that Kris Peeters' idea? What are your ambitions? Is there still the ambition, for example, to make taxation more equitable in our country? Once, that was a CD&V requirement. Do not give it up, because that is the path we must follow in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u10	Mr President, Minister, since the beginning of this Parliament, you and your government have been attacking the purchasing power and social protection of our citizens. Index jump, consumer taxes, bleeds in social security and health care. Our fellow citizens have never suffered so much under this government. And in spite of this totally unfair policy, which deepens inequalities, what a budget failure! Your majority still has to find at least 2.6 billion euros and it is again undercut. It pulls in every direction: some want to privatize Belfius – it disturbs you, by the way! –, others do not refund the sessions at the psychologist for seniors... Mr Minister, you, the so-called "social face" of this government, are proposing an increased degression of unemployment benefits! In short, it is a matter of bringing workers who have the misfortune to be dismissed as soon as possible to the minimum allowance. And as always, the effort will be borne by our elders, workers and social recipients. My questions are: Can you develop your proposal? How do you want to reduce unemployment benefits? Explain the timing and thresholds. What is the budgetary impact? Finally, explain to us how increased degressivity will be able to fill the jobs that are in short supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u11	Mr President, Mr Calvo has already noted that budgetary control is on the way and that discussions are under way. You need to look for several billions. If I can believe the report of the Monitoring Committee and the reports in the press, then you are all ready with your magic wand, so that the problem can be solved by itself, and you do not intend to take the measures you really need to take. There is also a work deal coming, we read in the press. With great joy I await that. That deal is important; it was also your promise to help every Belgian get a job. We support you in that, but I also read in the press that you intend to reduce benefits more quickly. Benefits would be reduced quarterly in order to reach the minimum after two years, which would be below the poverty line. The measure is defended in the press by the argument that the government wants to stimulate the unemployed with the benefits, because it would get the unemployed to work. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the aim of a work deal must be to help people to work and to provide workers who can fill the vacancies. Do you really think you're solving labour shortages by sitting on unemployment benefits? People need the right education. So you need to invest in the people; you need to give them the right guidance. At the time, you condemned the N-VA's proposal that the unemployed should receive their benefits, so that they could no longer pay their bills and find a job of their own. But today you are presenting the same proposal as the N-VA! I don't understand. Do you really intend, Minister, to further reduce unemployment benefits to below the threshold of the reform that has already been carried out? If not, what are your proposals for a work deal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u12	Mr President, Minister, we have heard of your proposal to introduce a degression of unemployment benefit entitlements in our country. This degression will speed up the fact that unemployed workers will be reduced to living alone at €1,011 per month. A thousand hundred euros a month to live, that is what the right-wing parties are proposing here. Has anyone had to live here yet? That's no one in the right wing. Living with 5 000 euros per month is easy. The minister earns 10,000 euros a month. And it is you who will decide that people will live on 1,011 euros a month! Besides, you're proud of it. It is outrageous to dare to propose this! It's antisocial. It's outrageous, because it doesn't work. You're wrong, aren't you? You don't know what to say, you're thinking. But with EUR 5 000, you earn five times more! Aren't you ashamed? You win five times that amount. Your measure will be clearly ineffective. Today, 180,000 people are seeking employment for 32,000 available jobs. Do the count! This means that at least 130,000 people will not have a job. Your policy is ineffective. This is even more inefficient because people who have to settle for an income of 1,011 euros per month think only of one thing: to survive! They don't think about looking for work anymore. They're thinking about how they're gonna end the month. On the 15th of the month, they are already consulting their phone applications to calculate the amount they have left to finish the month. And you want these people to still look for work? It's really outrageous! I dare say that this policy is the result of continuity. The Di Rupo government had already decided to degress. The Di Rupo government had already decided to hunt the unemployed. You continue with this logic. It's not just about the socialists, it's about everyone. It's outrageous. It hurts. I'll tell you here: my heart is not going to bleed! My heart will revolt! The revolt is rumbling in Belgium. If you continue, on the right, to want to drive out the unemployed rather than create jobs, there will be a revolt in Belgium. You're gonna wake up, and it's gonna hurt. I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u13	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my question is about SWT, but it was added to the questions on degressivity. First of all, I am encouraged by the statements made by Mr Hedebouw, who just found it scandalous that an unemployed person should live with EUR 1 100. I find it scandalous that some entrepreneurs and self-employed people have to live with EUR 600, 700 or 800. This is a disgrace to me: who does in this country has much less. But for those who contribute to the economy in this country and ensure that people can get to work, he does not stand up for that. The government wants to do that; it wants to support them. Ladies and gentlemen, the employment deal is intended to get more people to work so that they do not have to live on benefits. How this should be done must be the subject of the debate in the government. This must be done in a correct and social way. Moreover, this is not just a question of reducing benefits; it must also be accompanied by an increase in benefits at the beginning of unemployment. We have already begun to apply this principle in the previous government. It is now a question of examining its impact. That's it right now. Minister, I have another question for you, which is not about that. Over the past few weeks there has been a lot of fuss about SWT, the old bridge pension. That is another important pillar of what is on the table. You decided last week to approve Carrefour's plan. I will not take that old cow out of the canal; you have already done a lot of arm wrestling on this matter with the Flemish Minister of Work. However, let us look forward. You always refer to the royal decree of the government, which establishes a growth path for the minimum age at which SWT can be used. According to this growth path, the minimum age is 59 years from 1 January, one year later it is 60 years. Mr Minister, I really only have one very specific question. Will you ensure that the growth path is effectively respected, or will you still agree to the choice of workers' and employers' organisations for workers to use SWT at 56 years of age and younger, which is absolutely no longer the case today in view of labour shortages?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u14	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, do we get a work deal? I hope so, because this country urgently needs interventions that can fundamentally change the organisation of our labour market. This country needs measures to help resolve the country's structural budgetary difficulties. When I heard that you had the Baert proposal examined by the RVA on unemployment, I was delighted, Mr Vice-Prime Minister. Higher unemployment benefits at the start of unemployment, depending on the loss of earnings that one suffers at the time one becomes unemployed, is absolutely justifiable. A faster reduction in unemployment benefit in a subsequent phase will in turn improve the search intensity of the unemployed. Eventually one lands faster on the flat-rate basic amount. In essence, that is a very good story, Mr Vice Prime Minister. It is also in line with what the N-VA has always proclaimed. I have three specific questions. Firstly, will the RVA examine other proposals than the Baert proposal? Secondly, in addition to the budgetary impact on the benefit mass, will we also take into account the positive effects on people's search behaviour and on the implementation of bottleneck vacancies, something that we are not able to achieve today? It is important to include that point in the weighting. Finally, when can we expect the results of the research?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u15	Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister, my question was addressed to the Prime Minister. Indeed, if it is true that its subject matter concerns you, if one considers the famous advertisements relating to the deal employment, one can say that the subject is not only within your competence. The government is communicating. You can hear a little of everything. This is in all senses: degressivity of unemployment benefits faster, time limitation, training, mobility, jobs in short supply, places in crèches, etc. In itself, you can be reached on the ambition aspect, on the objective. Everything that can promote employment is obviously positive and must be supported. On the other hand, I don't follow you as far as method and strategy are concerned. Indeed, in the background, you cast a few shocking ideas, without nuance. Of course, it is always on unemployment benefits that both express themselves most. In the end, this way of doing things is likely to stir up opposite ideologies, to fit into a confrontational logic rather than to create employment. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, beyond all the announcements in the press, what exactly is on the menu? It's not just about your skills here. I am speaking to you as if I were speaking to the Prime Minister because he did not want to answer my question. Is this menu closed? If we consider this package, the federated entities are very much concerned. Are they closely associated with the discussions? What is their level of commitment? Through the 20 measures mentioned in the press headlines, we know that your government is looking for €3 billion for 2019 alone. Are all these measures concrete with a budget that will make it possible, tomorrow, to make positive progress on employment or ultimately, is it the federal government that decides by sending the hot potato back to others?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u16	Minister, in its last report, the Federal Office of the Plan announces the creation of 322,000 additional jobs by 2022. In fact, the number of jobseekers has fallen below the 500,000 mark, which is historic. Paradoxically, the number of vacancies still stands at 130,000 in Belgium, making us the country with the most vacancies in Europe after the Czech Republic, with a rate of 3.5% of jobs. What is more normal, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Prime Minister, in this particularly favourable economic context, rightly decides to tackle this problem of job shortages. As we know, the issue of vacancies is not a simple one. Leverages are at different skill levels. Care must therefore be taken to maintain a certain level of coherence with regard to the decisions that are taken, as well as good coordination on certain aspects. I have no doubt for a moment that, in order to address all aspects of this issue, the problem of training and its relevance to the labour market must be addressed and perhaps also addressed by a sectoral approach. I am also thinking of the problem of diversity in the labour market, not to mention a reform of our unemployment benefit system to avoid job traps. I hear, of course, that some colleagues are offended by such a reform in the future. I do not think we should be afraid of the reforms. We saw him. All the reforms that the government has brought to date are bearing fruit. The numbers are here. Our unemployment system is the least active and therefore the least efficient in Europe. Why do you want to oppose any form of progress at all costs? To consult the Group of 10 and to ask it to make proposals to that effect was, in my view, the best option for making effective progress on this issue. My questions are simple. An agreement was reached by the Group of Ten yesterday. Can you give us the outline? In relation to the degressiveness of unemployment benefits, much has been said. Can you unravel the true of the false? Finally, Minister, can you give us any details about the implementation of this job deal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand some of the concerns, but it is premature and even unfounded. I'll tell you why. Two months ago, I made it clear that our Belgian labour market is paradoxical. Indeed, on the one hand, there are many open vacancies, on the other hand, the level of effectiveness is still too low. I understood at that time that the opposition agreed and also felt that this had to be remedied. That was handled. The social partners, the Group of Ten, were asked how they deal with this and what their suggestions are in this respect. Together with the Prime Minister and the other colleagues, I have asked the regional governments of this country for an approach, as they have important powers of activation. The open vacancies are really a big problem. The High Council for Employment recently said that our companies can no longer grow and cannot create additional jobs, because the vacancies are not filled. You know that in the 20-64 age group, 4.5 million Belgians work and over 2 million Belgians are looking for work and inactive. I repeat: 2 million! With regard to this opportunity group, it was also said at European level that we should do something extra. People with a migration background, women, low-skilled older workers and others are not sufficiently represented in our labour market. With this objective, we have started the work deal, to accelerate the filling of bottlenecks and to redeem the existing workforce. At the Consultation Committee on 27 June, we received more than 30 proposals from the various entities. Last week, a question was asked by Mr Van der Donkt, to which I replied that we will apply the Copernicanic philosophy and meet the maximum number of proposals made by the regions. It is true that yesterday the Group of Ten gave us an opinion by consensus between employers and employees. They have the same approach based on the same philosophy and add "that they want to look at how our unemployment system can be adapted to improve the implementation of bottleneck jobs." We shall now continue to look at this with the Group of Ten. Reference was also made to academics. For example, Mr Baert has put forward proposals to improve the system of unemployment benefits. Incentives may be given to fill open vacancies. It is not about a stricter but more efficient degressivity. I am therefore somewhat surprised that some people are asking me a question about this today. After all, in the previous coalition agreement, Title II, 1, 2: "Reform the unemployment system to increase labour market participation." In 2012 it was rightly said that work needed to be done on this. I can also quote my predecessor in this plenary sitting: 'I do not like blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, Unemployed people have to look for work and keep trying, and yes, that may fail, but then it is a question of finding other means and ways. I don't like the fatality our society controls. We will not just put unemployed people in the corner and just give them money without helping them. Then you get soured people who lack money and have no family or future." I can quote even more. The common thread is that Mr Calvo then, in 2014, asked my predecessor a question about degressivity, just like today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u18	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to know that it is not a question of reducing unemployment over time. But it's about making the right mix. This means, firstly, taking care of the loss of income and maintaining the maximum standard of living, especially in the first phase; secondly, incentives to work; thirdly, protection against poverty. That last point will certainly be clearly present in our exercise. So don't worry, we don't throw the unemployed into poverty, any more than my predecessor would have. I understand, Mr Calvo, that you asked one oral question at the time, but that you then left this issue to rest. Until today. Speaking of perseverance. Mr Lachaert, with regard to SWT, a difficult decision was taken on Carrefour. You do not want to go back on that, for which I am grateful. Das Wahre ist das Ganze, there must of course be an agreement on the whole. However, the government can say very clearly that from 2019 the minimum age for collective redundancies will be 59 years and from 2020 it will be 60 years. That can be a good decision if you come out for the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u20	Minister, if you were going to applaud the banks of the N-VA and the Open Vld, you would have succeeded. Congratulations! The laconical way in which you answer questions, both about Carrefour and about the unemployed, irritates me a little. You think that's very funny. You are throwing out expensive words, such as Copernican, efficient and degressive, but the reality is that you intend to let those people live at EUR 1 000 a month. You may be talking about Copernican and degressive, but that is the tough reality, those are the plans you are walking around with. I honestly don't understand that. According to you, the concern is unfounded and comes too early. It seems, however, that we are not too worried at all. Kris Peeters' reply clearly shows that CD&V has already decided to participate in the plans of the Open Vld and the N-VA. There is yet another budget in which Christian Democrats sign more savings in social security than there is a search for income from the big assets. Year after year, we see the same thing. Finally, Mr Vice-Prime Minister, it is no secret that as an opposition we are not enthusiastic about a squabble cabinet. It's not nice to see a fight between CD&V and N-VA all the time. Colleagues, what I find even less pleasing is that CD&V has just become the sub-contractor of antisocial N-VA proposals in this government. You run their program and let go of everything you stand for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u21	Minister, I must note that you are not answering my questions. You tell us, "It's not me, it's the others!" Minister, scorning the unemployed and hurling thousands of citizens into poverty is unacceptable. Your government is just punishing, punishing and punishing! Minister, be the one who puts the unemployed back into employment and not in misery!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u22	Mr Minister, the way and style are bothering me a little bit. We are talking about people who are looking for a job, who live on a benefit, who read everything in the newspaper and who follow the debate here and are worried. Then we stand here laughing and quoting one or the other without giving real answers. You say we're early, but I can't hear you say, "I'm not gonna moan."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u23	And unsubstantiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u24	Minister, does this mean that you will not go further in degressivity? You quoted my colleague Monica De Coninck. We supported her back then. This reform has now taken place, but it does not give you the right to go further, which will give people a benefit below the poverty line. You like to quote. Guess who said this: "We don't choose populism. We do not opt for the frontal attack of the weakest, because that will weaken us all in the end. Don't believe them, because all they do is push people into trouble. They make sure that the people who are unlucky to fall out of work hang the sword of Damocles above their head." I hope you keep those words in mind when you make a deal about the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u25	Minister, this proposal could appear as a test balloon. However, you made it clear that the majority had agreed to degression. We have heard the enthusiasm with which you have defended this measure. The question that arises today is the resistance that we will organize to prevent an umpteenth anti-social law from being passed under this legislature. An agreement has been reached, and it is very serious. It is all the more so, ladies and gentlemen, that we can see, by analysing in which category of the population unemployment has increased the most, that it is the workers over the age of 55 who are struck. In an interesting interview with the newspaper De Tijd, an official of Randstad Interim indicated the reasons why workers over the age of 55 did not accept another job so easily. The main reason is the loss of wages, which results in a decrease of 500 or 600 euros per month when the worker changes his job. Colleagues, if you want to solve this problem of vacant jobs, send a signal to the employer telling him that it is time to increase wages. I tell you, if the employer decides a wage increase of 300 to 400 euros, there will be no more shortage problems. The crucial question that will arise is what part of the 400 billion a year cake we produce is intended for workers... [[Brouhahaha]] Ah, it makes you uncomfortable! Add that 400 euros to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u26	You have to finish, Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u27	Mr President, I hear Mr Lachaert saying that EUR 1 011 is a lot. Just give the small businesses EUR 400 more. What's the solution? So I repeat what I said: autumn will be very, very hot if you continue with your social measures. I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u28	Minister, it is of course good to note that in Cuba, in Mr Hedebouw's model, the average monthly wage is USD 30 per month. That's another thing than the 300 to 400 euros he's just magicing out of his hat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u29	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u30	You think that's fantastic, too, Mrs. Temmerman? That's good to know, too. A new technical group is in the making. All crazy on a stick. You have explained very well that the degressivity is being studied at the moment, Minister. We must not panic about that. It's a budget-neutral exercise. So it's not meant to be a saving exercise. The aim is to make the system more efficient. For the rest, I would like to thank you for your very clear answer to what I asked you about the bridge pension, Mr. Secretary of State. I am very pleased that we will be able to ensure that the fuss we saw at Carrefour will no longer be necessary from January. A clear path will be respected. In this way we give a very clear message, especially in Flanders, where there is a great deal of crunch on the labour market in some regions, that we absolutely cannot write people from 56 years of age down on our labour market. We will need them very much to complement our economy, to grow our labour market and to get the budget in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u31	Thank you for your reply, Mr Deputy Prime Minister. You made an analysis of the labour market. That was pretty right. You also outlined the challenges we face, given the tight labour market. I see a lot of colleagues getting nervous just because you ordered an investigation from the RVA. We still have time to make the evaluation afterwards. Today it is not clear. Let us ensure that we continue that process in the coming days and weeks and investigate the situation further. Let us also avoid possible stingers in that slope. If there is an increase in the basic flat rates for certain groups of unemployed, we must at least ensure that we do not give the wrong incentive. We must continue to make work pay enough to get those people out of inactivity. It is important to include the positive effect on people's search behaviour and the positive effect on filling in the bottleneck vacancies. Today we are failing to do so. I am glad that a taboo seems to be dying and that the piste is being investigated. What's in store today isn't a saving exercise. It is not a saving on unemployment benefits. It's a positive, smart exercise, redistributing resources. It is a positive story, with an impact on search behaviour, on bottlenecks, on the organisation of our labour market and, ultimately, on the budgetary situation of our country. As long as we are the only country in the world with unlimited unemployment benefits, we owe it to ourselves to include an important realization like this in that employment deal. Good luck, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u32	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, we have not had many answers. And I confess to you that the laughter and implication of this majority bothers me. Indeed, we are told here that it has been very difficult to reach an agreement simply to apply the current legislation for people, including many women. And I am thinking in particular of Carrefour cashiers who have lost their jobs. Deputy Prime Minister, this is shocking, especially for the people concerned. In the case of jobs in short supply, indeed, thousands of jobs are vacant and some employers do not find the profiles they are looking for. I agree that all the energies must be mobilised to that end. But to believe that the magic and absolute answer to the jobs in need is to move forward symbolically only with degression, or, as I have just heard, a challenge to the unlimited nature of unemployment benefits, I do not believe in it! This requires a whole series of other answers, in terms of training, in-company internships, etc. You are asking for a study, but let us first look, ladies and gentlemen, at European comparisons of unemployment benefits. It's very enlightening. In essence, the situation in Belgium is not as favourable as some of them present. Mr President, I conclude by saying that today's challenge is to get out of ideological positions and to try, at all levels of power concerned, to move forward in a very concrete way and to find solutions at different levels to respond effectively to the challenge of jobs in short supply and vacant jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u33	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for the clarification you have given on this issue. I'll pick up two elements. We have always said that consultation must be at the heart of our methodology. In the context of the 'jobs deal', I think you are absolutely right to consult with the Regions and Communities, and with the Group of Ten. We also know that the leitmotiv of this government is job creation. With the question of reforming our unemployment insurance system, I also think you are on the right track. The proposed reform will stimulate opportunities and integration into the labour market. It is important to establish a socially correct mechanism. Our assurant system must become more secure but also more responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u34	Minister, we heard from the media that the citizens of the Brugse Ommeland are threatening to take the law into their own hands. For the Fleming to make such a threat, it must be very advanced. You know all too well the song Were Di, in which it is rightly sung that the Flame is peaceful in nature. Peaceful in nature, but he resists when necessary! Today the citizens of the Brugse Ommeland are more than tired of the nuisance caused by the so-called transmigrants. What are transmigrants, colleagues? Transmigrant is a poconewspeak word that in fact means: illegal fortune seeker who stealing, robbing, plundering, molesting and destroying, by all means tries to reach the British Isles. Until recently, the problem of illegal fortune seekers was limited to the Channel Ports Dunkirk and Kales, but recently it moved to the Brugse Ommeland. Especially Zeebrugge is occupied by an influx of these fortune seekers. In the past, Minister, questions have been repeatedly asked about this issue, both by colleagues from your own majority and by our people, Mrs Pas and Mr Dewinter. You always replied that you would take the appropriate measures. Well, Minister, I do not know what measures you have taken in the meantime. They certainly don't seem appropriate to me, given the lasting, and growing, nuisance in Bruges. That is why I want to know from you: what have you done and what will you do to combat this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u35	Mr Penris, I am pleased to mention all the actions the police are doing in this country, not only the local police, but also the federal police and all the others. First of all, for many months, there was private surveillance in the parking lots. They have had a enforcement effect, which, of course, did not solve the problem but forced themselves elsewhere. We have also strengthened the Medusa actions. The Medusa actions keep an eye on motorways and major traffic axes in this country, with a view to intercepting transit migrants travelling through them. This concerns multidisciplinary actions by local police, road police and other police forces, coordinated by the director-coordinators. Then there are also the MATA teams, which are police teams specifically focused on intercepting human smugglers. It is my firm belief that, in order to get this problem under control, we must be able to roll up the smuggling networks. The MATA teams work in cooperation with the road police, with the local police zones but also with the support services with the search dogs, with the helicopter, with the intervention corps. We also have coordinated international actions with France and the United Kingdom. In addition, together with Minister Geens, I have drawn up an additional action plan to tackle trafficking in human beings even more decisively. In total, more than 240 actions were carried out this year in stations, on public transport and parking. In addition, we have included more than 4 500 transit migrants. Most transit migrants were in Zeebrugge but also the railway police in Brussels and the road police in Antwerp, Flemish Brabant and East Flanders have done more than their jobs. I come to the situation in Zeebrugge. If the local police are asking for more support on the basis of the security analysis, the federal police will join us. We've had a meeting with Bruges. They will be supported by the federal police. Because of the many actions we now have a better view of the smuggling networks. I think that's the answer. When a transit agent is arrested, fingerprints are taken, a photograph is taken, a PV is drawn up, they enter the ANG and it is always checked if they have already been ended. The focus on human smugglers has led to over 500 arrests in the last two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u36	Mr Minister, my late colleague, Freddy Van Gaever, would have mentioned your answer as well-intentioned. You do stick patches on the wooden leg but you do not manage to tackle the problem on the ground. The fortune searcher's current continues to grow and drives the people on the ground to the limit. What do you have to do? You have to turn Zeebrugge and the ommeland into a trap, where the transmigrants can go along one side and can't get out anymore, unless via a one way ticket home, but you don't do anything about it either. Mrs Pas has requested the figures from your colleague and they are quite educational. In recent years, 643 intruders have been arrested in the port of Zeebrugge. Of these, less than 60% have not yet been effectively returned to their country of origin. The rest is still out there, Minister, and that is the problem. If you want to avoid the Flemish lifting the peak or the scythe or reaching for the rifle, you will need to take harder and more concrete measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u37	Mr President, Minister, we talk very often in this half-round about the safety of our nuclear power stations. That's important. The discussion on Objective 3 and Tihange 2 has been going on for a very long time, despite the fact that there are a lot of scientific reports that have taken a very clear stand in this discussion. You have also succeeded in doing what your predecessors could not do, in particular ensuring cross-border cooperation in the field of nuclear safety. Together with the Dutch, French and German experts we can get to work. On the other side of the spectrum we see something quite different. From a political-ideological angle, we see calls in all kinds of directions. We know the language used in this semi-round, but at the same time it is not much different in parliaments in other countries. In addition, we know that our nuclear watchdog, the FANC, which has shown its teeth several times, has received 500 000 signatures asking for the power stations to be shut down. A large number of Dutch, Germans and according to the list also asked a number of people from Uzbekistan to close those power stations. Colleagues, I can ask you a number of questions. Minister, how do you translate that list with 500 000 signatures? What should we expect from that? What is the cooperation with the Dutch, French and Germans? What should be done according to the experts? What solutions do you see for what has been put on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u38	Mr President, Mr Wollants, it is true that the FANC has received a petition with signatures for the closure of Objective 3 and Tihange 2. I gotta tell you, I understand these people. When people constantly talk about tearing plants and constantly light things out of context, I understand that people get scared and support such a petition. Moreover, when German ministers are heard talking about fault reactors and they say 'Es ist eine Zeitbombe an unserer Grenze', I believe that this scares people. That's the perception, but what's the reality now? First of all, we are not talking about cracks and cracks. They're hydrogen seals. The FANC immediately carried out a study based on international expertise, together with experts from the Netherlands and abroad and an audit was carried out. On the basis of this thorough study, the FANC has decided that there is no danger to safety and that the reactors can remain active. That was not questioned by any expert. I can tell you that we have continued to communicate about this transparently. Together with Germany, we have put together a joint committee in which hundreds of questions were asked by the German experts. Those questions were all answered one by one by the FANC. We make cross-checks, Germany with Belgium, the Netherlands with Belgium and France with Belgium. On 9 July, the Reaktor-Sicherheitskommission, a German independent committee providing advice to the German Government, published a report in which it gave its opinion on the Objective 3 and Tihange 2 plants and followed the FANC's analysis and conclusion for 100%. Once again, it is shown here that the FANC is doing a decent job. I want to launch a call to stop talking people into panic unnecessarily. When there's a problem with our power stations, we shut them down. We have done this a number of times in the past. But if there's no cause for panic, let's stop talking.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u39	Mr President, Minister, this is clear and clear. Like you, I prefer facts to slogans. I would rather that something be substantiated and studied than what some of the green wholesalers of the scaremongering put forward here, then spinning yarn. Colleagues, even when I speak these words, I hear the slogans going in all directions, but the facts are the only ones in the report. The German government, the German specialists say it's okay. Our own specialists say it's okay. The specialists in the United States say it's okay. I have more to gain from this than from Mr Kristof Calvo's slogans, screams and screams.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u40	Mr Minister, if I believe the press, you have tabled a text, or a preliminary draft text, aimed at preventing now the cumulation of functions which may lead to cumulation of interests between the functions of an alternate judge, essentially at the level of justices of the peace, or even of commercial courts, and the mandates - of trustee, administrator of property or persons - which may be connected with them in these jurisdictions. This is an interesting step in itself, since it must be avoided that this should be seen as a disguised way of paying those who, up to now, have a fully voluntary function. Mr Minister, the question that can be asked, beyond this case, which seems to be a good one, is whether you are not going to discourage substitute judges in this way. We know today that they have become an essential link in the functioning of the FPS Justice, and in the way in which judgments are rendered. This is due, in particular, to the policy of non-appointment and non-filling of executives in our jurisdictions. Increasingly, these alternate magistrates are being called upon. Is there no risk that tomorrow they will decline the function? It also comes to my mind that your text would consider that, in order to be appointed as an alternate judge, training should now be provided. Again, this may be interesting, but will it not be a handicap to the appointment of lawyers in these alternate positions, unless you consider, possibly, that this is a new way to access appointment in the judiciary? I would like to know your real intentions regarding this text, as well as the advantages it presents, but also the disadvantages that it is likely to lead in the day-to-day management of our courts and tribunals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u41	Mr President, Mr Brotcorne, like you, I recognize that the alternate judges today play an important role in the proper functioning of justice and ensure the continuity of the public service. Without intent to contradict this finding, however, I must respond to some important recommendations made by the Group of States against Corruption of the Council of Europe (GRECO), including measures on alternate judges. On 15 June, the Council of Ministers approved a preliminary bill to further improve the functioning of the Judicial Order. The preliminary draft, drawn up in consultation with the CSJ (Superior Council of Justice), the Judicial Training Institute, the presidents of the justices of the peace and the judges of the police court, includes a recruitment examination and mandatory initial training with particular attention to ethics. The preliminary draft also provides for the impossibility of alternate judges being appointed for the performance of a judicial mandate. But this prohibition of cumulation is limited to the cantons, I insist, in which they are appointed and/or, in which they sit at the request of the presidents of the justices of the peace, the judges of the police court and the CSJ. From the press release of the Royal Union of Justices of Peace and Justices of Police (URJPP), it appears that it also favours this track. In its interim compliance report adopted on 23 March 2018, GRECO referred to the preliminary draft and supported the measures proposed therein. I believe that the 892 alternate judges, who are currently active in the justices of the peace – each justice of the peace can have a maximum of six alternate judges to be replaced – will be able to become more involved in the management of our justices without any further ethical problem and according to some comments addressed to us by GRECO.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answers. You are working on the positive aspects of your project – which I have not denied – but you are not saying anything about its negative, potential impacts when we are aware of the difficulties in the functioning of courts and tribunals. This will further complicate the exercise of justice because some lawyers will no longer want to take on this volunteer role. You are not saying anything about the status that could possibly be envisaged for these alternate judges, so that being appointed to this office is more interesting than it is today. In an ideal world, it could also be imagined that substitute judges are no longer needed because executives are filled and human resources are given to justice to render judgments and judgments effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u43	The next item is questions for the Minister of Justice, but also for Secretary of State Francken, who told me that he would be here and that you, Minister, would answer on behalf of both. I'm asking the services to give me a heads-up on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u44	Minister, Secretary of State, the Albanian criminal Safet Rustemi was put on a plane to Albania by Mr Francken. In this way, the figures are realized around expulsions. They'd think, "Good riddance." Unfortunately, however, it is not that simple. Rustemi is a top criminal, the leader of a gang of human smugglers that colleague Jambon is fighting against. He is also a drug dealer and a pimp and has about 40 murders on his conscience in Albania. The Secretary of State pays for this man a plane ticket and his colleague and fellow party minister Jambon can then go back to looking for him with an international search warrant. Rustemi continues his international criminal activities simply from Albania. Thanks to the expulsion, he's not serving time. He got no punishment at all, but even a gift with a bow around it. So much hasn't been cleaned up. A great deal of money is being spent and, unfortunately, a great deal of insecurity is being created in the long term. After all, this provoked impunity leads to greater insecurity. That is very clear when reading the international BOLO from the federal police. Mr. Justice Minister, I wanted to say that you are an old wise man, but I will keep it a wise man. So I'm saying you're a wise man and you've been remarkably quiet this week. Your colleague Francken states that the DVZ cannot take into account information he does not have. In the Rustemi dossier, it seems to me that it would be very worrying if the Justice Department were to remain on that information. The newspaper today speaks of a wall between the DVZ and the Justice Department. What I do not understand at all is that every citizen in Belgium knows that those who are free on bail are certainly not allowed to leave the country. Only the DVZ doesn't know that in our country. Minister, there is a word for that: ostrich politics. And false security. I would like the following questions to be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u45	Mrs. De Coninck, can you move them quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u46	Mr President, I will make them immediately. Minister, what is your opinion on the claim that justice is obstructing and withholding information? What is your opinion on the fact that the DVD states that the Justice Department is not informing the department? In particular, how many convicted and even unconvicted criminals have been taken abroad and thus escaped their sentence? What will you do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the last week has been another story of punishment. An Albanian criminal, active in the prostitution environment, in the drug trade and in the trafficking of women and apparently convicted of various acts of violence, would face a 22-year prison sentence. However, he was repatriated by the DVZ to Albania after Justice released him on bail. In Albania, he is once again at large, so he can continue his current trade and hike. Meanwhile, he is again convicted in Belgium and is on the Most Wanted list of the federal police, who are looking for him again, to allow him to serve his sentence here. Mr Minister, such a dossier raises many questions for many people, of course. First of all, why wasn't his original sentence in prison fully executed? Can you give me more information on that? Secondly, the separation of powers is, of course, also a sacred principle for us. Nevertheless, as a human being, we can spontaneously ask ourselves why he was released from pre-trial detention at all. If we are not allowed to ask that question, then why did the court not intervene when he was released on bail in one case, but apparently already received a final conviction? So it was possible to carry out an immediate sentence, or is this information incorrect? How is it that someone who's being deported still has a lawsuit going on? Penalists say it's not a one-off fact, but it's a shave and a sleaze on our hands. In other words, isn't there communication between Justice and the DVD? Is there a problem? In order not to get any misunderstandings, I would like to be very clear: we too are in favour of sending criminals to their home country, but on condition that they can serve their time and not walk free. After all, what is the result of all this? We're sending back a serious criminal. Yay, that's well done and good for the statistics, but has our society become safer on it? I do not think so, and this should be the main aim, Minister: to create a secure society and to ensure that victims receive effective justice. Minister, I have a few questions for you. Can you explain the case in detail? What agreements are in force between the DVZ and the Justice Department? Does the DVZ have access to the justice databases or not? Should existing agreements be strengthened so that this can no longer happen in the future? Please stop pointing at each other, explain who is responsible for this and how we are going to avoid it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u48	Minister, Safet Rustemi is a heavy-duty boy known for drug crimes, violence with firearms and prostitution. In the end, he was sentenced to 22 years in prison. What are we doing? We give him a free ride to Albania, with a special flight organized by the airline DVZ and paid by the Belgian taxpayer. When he is at liberty there in Albania, he is located in the discotheque Evasion escape, one cannot imagine, but it is so much so and then we put him on the Most Wanted list in Belgium. First it is deported, then it is tweeted and then it is absolutely necessary for us to take it up again. Here are some peculiar rules of law at work. A person who is illegally on our territory and who has such serious criminal offences on his hands will be released after payment of a bail of EUR 25 000, and for someone whose parquet itself testifies that he is coming to the sitting with crocodile shoes of a few thousand euros. So that's a deposit of six or seven pairs of shoes. The immediate arrest is not ordered. That is also very difficult, because our rules are very strict: only if one tries to avoid the punishment can this be done. As a result, a person who is illegal on the territory and has committed very serious criminal offences is at large. Secretary of State Francken tweet first: it's the usual procedure. A little later: it's exceptional. Finally, we're going to investigate. However, Mr Mary says that he has twelve such files in his office. Meanwhile, I see on the Internet that other lawyers testify that they have multiple such files. That seems suspiciously like impunity organized by the DVZ. The DVZ seems very strange to me here. The Aliens Act allows perfectly to lock someone who is compromising national security in a closed center, pending a final verdict. Why didn't that happen here? Why does the DVZ prefer impunity? I would therefore like to know from you what information Justice shares with the DVZ.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by judgment of 8 June 2017, the Court of Appeal's Board of Appeal lifted the provisional detention by granting Rustemi the right to remain free, subject to payment of an important deposit. The Board of Appeal ruled, I quote: "Le maintien en détention de l'inculpé ne s'avère actuellement plus nécessaire s'il fournit une caution qui garantit sa présence à tous les acteurs ultérieurs de la procédure." The ratio of this Article 35 (4) of the Law is the payment of the deposit, a reinforcement of the guarantee that the person concerned will appear for all proceedings and for the execution of the penalties. According to that article, the guarantee is awarded to the State as soon as it has been found that the defendant has not appeared without legal reason in any procedural action or enforcement of the judgment. The person concerned effectively paid this bail, and was therefore entitled to be exempted, locked in the prison of Saint Gillis. After having been informed of the decision of the Board of Appeal and the payment of the deposit, the Warrant Director of Saint-Gilles, as is customary, informed the Foreign Affairs Office of the exemption of the person concerned by means of a model form indicating the lifting of the arrest warrant and therefore of the provisional detention. Involved remained in prison until 12 June 2017, where he was picked out by the DVZ and transferred to the closed center for illegal immigrants in Bruges. When the DVZ was transferred to the DVZ, the detention certificate was given, stating that the person concerned was exempt under bail. I'm assured that the Foreign Office has access to the prison system database, Sidis Suite. It should be noted that, in the context of the DVZ's expulsion decision, the DVZ did not seek advice from the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, such a question is mandatory only in the case of terrorism, pursuant to the more binding directives of COL 9/2005. I may be old, colleague De Coninck, but I'm not an ostrich. I will discuss, together with Mr Francken and the competent authorities, the way in which the DVD and Justice can better cooperate in the area of suspect detainees, in particular suspects of crimes other than terrorism, who do not have a residence permit. I think I can say that cooperation on convicted detainees who do not have a residence permit is working well. We can inspire ourselves on this for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u50	Mr President, Minister Jambon, Minister Geens, Secretary of State Francken, I know that there will be a ping-pong game about who is responsible. Everyone's pulling their umbrella open. But no one has anything to do with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u51	That's what you'd like.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u52	No, that's not true. You just said that the DVZ knew and could have known, while Secretary of State Francken said that the DVZ can't respond to what he doesn't know. Either everyone knows or no one knows, but it won't be solved. All right, I won't go into that any further. Mr Francken, you're laughing at it, but it's not funny. It's not funny. You're releasing criminals. You give them a free pass to go abroad and you also pay for their ticket! So I call you to change. I call upon you to work together. There has been a terrorist committee, which has made a lot of recommendations. Read that report again and do your job.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u53	Minister, I conclude from your reply that there was no definitive conviction regarding the person concerned that an effective execution of a fixed sentence could not be carried out. That's how I understood it. There was only a remand and a bail. If that is the case, then the deposit did not offer the desired guarantee. The DVZ apparently has access to all databases. I am pleased that you are coming together to ensure that this cannot happen again in the future. There is no need to point out to each other, because both the DVZ and the public prosecutor have a responsibility here. If everyone accepts their responsibilities in the future, we can ensure that such punitive stories do not appear anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u54	Minister, such problems can be dealt with very academically. You do. I could do that, too, but I won't. People have been tired of such stories for a while. They're sending someone away at taxpayers' expense. Now they're going to look for him again and get him back at taxpayers' expense. Because he was gone, he was convicted in absentia. That is why he will object and there will be new trials, again at taxpayers' expense. You made three points. The lockup sheet says he was out on bail. The DVZ has access to the database, but has not requested advice from the prosecution. There's only one case I can decide from that. By the way, I wrongly asked you my question because it is the DVZ that is failing. Furthermore, I can only conclude from this that all record tweets about the special flights and about all the successes are actually fake news; they are pimped figures that have to hide impunity. The worst of all, however, is this. A Belgian who commits a crime is convicted and imprisoned. But what risks an illegal criminal under Mr. Francken's policy? Nothing! At worst, he is put on a plane as a free man and returned to his native country. That is what Mr Francken is doing, and he can laugh at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, a year ago, you were referring to the slogan "reimbursement of psychological care for the population". Today, we know it was just an announcement effect. With an envelope of 22.5 million euros, we quickly understood and already pointed out that you could not meet all the needs. Today, it turns out that only moderate psychological problems can be reimbursed as part of a short-term treatment in a psychologist or clinician orthopaedagogue, provided that there has been prior consultation with a general practitioner and for a moderator ticket of up to 11 euros for ordinary beneficiaries. It has just been learned that these moderate psychological problems will in fact be reimbursed only for adults aged 18 to 64. Which is equivalent to 120,000 people, according to your numbers. Exit, therefore, the over 65s. Madam Minister, depression, burn-out, addictions, ill-being are unfortunately becoming more and more common in our society. These are extremely difficult situations for many of our citizens, regardless of their age. Why dare you choose to exclude people over the age of 65 from this rebate? What allows you to say that their needs are less important? This is clearly discrimination against our elders, and I would like to hear your argument on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u56	Minister, in addition to the limited budget and limited benefits described by my colleague, the policies you propose to seniors do not take into account current public health challenges. Everyone identifies these issues. The most important are the ageing of the population and the over-consumption of drugs by those over 65 years of age. You don't take that into account. You also do not take into account the difficulties faced by workers at the end of their careers, before the age of 65, as a result of the measures imposed by your government: flexibilisation of work, postponement of the pension age, uncertainty as to the pension to which they will be entitled, exclusion or reduction of unemployment benefits for them, their children and their grandchildren. All these factors mean that at the age of 65 or over the age of 65, the risk of mental problems increases. There is a growing number of people with disabilities. These problems of disability and long-term illnesses include mental health problems. And you now announce that these people over the age of 65 will not be included in the reimbursement of mental health care. That, Madam Minister, is a choice, discrimination, an exclusion that is simply unacceptable. You say that budget limits force you to choose target audiences. This is not done when a public health policy is being pursued and when we know that aging and mental health problems are affecting the population over the age of 65. What I expect of you today is to tell us that during the budget discussions, you will do everything possible to provide this care to everyone, even to those over 65 years of age.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u57	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, when last summer, when the budget agreement was reached, the federal government gave its go-ahead to a limited reimbursement of first-line psychological care, that was already a fine clarification. In a bleak suite of savings imposed on the health care sector, you announced that some € 22.5 million would be released for psychological care. A year later, we disappoint. You have just announced that seniors over the age of 65 will not be eligible for reimbursement. We know that seniors are particularly at risk: mourning, loneliness, health concerns, the cessation of professional activities and the financial and social consequences of this or the loss of self-image in an aging body are the main causes of these depressive states. Minister, your decision is clearly motivated by purely budgetary considerations. Instead of bringing the burden of the economy in a balanced way, you choose to have it fully assumed by a particularly vulnerable audience. My questions will be simple. What is the amount of savings you are going to achieve? How can you justify such a discriminatory decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u58	Ms. Caprasse, I'm somewhat surprised that you're asking me how much savings I'm going to save, because I'm the first Minister of Health to have a budget for mental health care. Before, there was nothing! First of all, we are taking a first step in the reimbursement of front-line psychological care. This is a historic step forward in mental health care policy in our country. Yes, it's true that we still have a lot of work to do, but Paris hasn't been done in a day. Last summer, we got 22.5 million euros for the reimbursement of psychological care on the front line. I am very pleased that this is a first step in this area for our country. At the same time, I am fully aware of the modesty of this budget. For this reason, we must make choices, in order to make the best use of it. To give you an idea, if we wanted to arrange a refund for all, it would not even amount to the reimbursement of an annual consultation. In my opinion, such a decision would not help patients. I prefer a well-thought-out system targeting a target group of 120,000 patients. In this way, the maximum impact will be achieved in the near future. At the beginning of the legislature, we made a similar arrangement for children and adolescents, investing 30 million euros in surplus in youth networks. We decided to initially arrange the reimbursement for adults between the ages of 18 and 64 suffering from the most common mental disorders: anxiety, addiction and depression. You can listen to your blower, Mr. Senesael! This is why, in recent years, adult mental health care networks have been significantly expanded. A quality offer is therefore well organized. It is essential that patients benefit in the short term. The supply for the elderly is now insufficiently developed and organised, which is why it is important to make up for it. I asked the KCE for a study. It is now under consideration in an interdepartmental commission. In order to establish such an organisation for the benefit of older persons, the cooperation of the federated entities is also necessary. In this Parliament, we have worked on critical issues. For example, mobile teams for children. And in my view, this is the result of constant attention to mental health care under this legislature, an area of which I have made a priority. First of all, we have worked on quality and citizens have the right to the highest quality of mental health care. Until recently, this quality was not guaranteed at all, but with the Mental Health Care Professions Act, I brought a solution. After investing in youth and adolescence, we continue with adults. Then will come the turn of the elderly. Personally, I would like to express my surprise, given your constant remarks to me, while before I took office, no one made any effort to recognize psychologists under the Mental Health Care Professions Act. And since we are not yet in a position to extend this strategy, I am working hard on what can be done by organizing things in the best way possible. Your remarks will not prevent me from working in the interests of the people. Of course, the amount of the envelope is limited and therefore it is necessary to make choices. A minister must always make choices, that goes without saying! But some ministers have made the choice not to do anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u59	Mr. President, Minister, to hear you, you are doing everything and everything wonderfully well with a billion savings on health care. And action on behalf of our elders has been taken by your government, minister! That's the least we can say! You make them work longer to earn less, (with an extension of their career) with a hardening of their access to early pension or even the removal of their pension bonus. You have removed the seniority supplement for the older unemployed. You've increased the cost of their health care. All these measures are harmful to our elders in particular, Madam Minister. What did you do for them? Nothing! They are simply left behind. It is therefore unthinkable that today you do not grant them the same reimbursement of psychological care as other citizens. Their need for help, support and comfort is just as important as that of other patients. Once again, you have made a political choice, a budgetary choice that we do not approve. Do you know Jacques Brel, Madam Minister? What did he say in the song Les Vieux, He said: "They pass through the present apologizing for not being further." With this provision, you unfortunately bring these words to life. When you are on holiday, I invite you to read the Mémoires d'Outre-tombe de Chateaubriand again. At that time, old age was a dignity; today it is a burden!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u60	Mr.President, Minister, your government made the budgetary choice in 2014 to reduce the standard of health care growth. Today, of course, we can see the impact of this measure in reality. You tell us that a budgetary choice has been made, that you cannot repay everyone and that, in doing so, you exclude people over the age of 65. You say that you are improving primary care, in the middle of life, at home, that you have asked the KCE to conduct a study. On the other hand – I asked you in committee about this – certain services accompanying people over the age of 65, who are experiencing problems of psychological and physical degradation, are covered by conventions until 31 August. However, they still do not know whether the latter will be extended. Some services will put the key under the doormat!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u61	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u62	That's not true! The INAMI Insurance Committee is still scheduled to meet next Monday, and it is not certain that the decision will be taken. Notifications will be given from 31 August in some of these services. You have to bear in mind the consequences of your choices, which cause the closure of services that work well. You order studies and you limit budgets. You then tell us that to do politics, to fulfill his mandate as minister, is to take on restrictive choices. One last word about psychologists and psychotherapy. You're nowhere yet! You have worked on the definition and actions of clinician psychologists and on the definition of what psychotherapy is! Nada! There's still nothing! Don't tell us you've improved the quality. There is now an over-medicalisation, an over-consumption of medicines. The budget you do not spend in mental health care based on the therapeutic relationship will go to your friends, pharmaceutical companies!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u63	Madam Minister, you seem upset when I tell you that you have operated back and forth. That's true! It is very good to intervene up to a few hours of psychological support for people. But you're going back, and that's what we're holding you back! And besides, you do it for the elderly! You know that very well. You haven't reached 60 yet, but I'm fine. When we have sixty or more – I do not speak personally, but in the name of all the people of this age that I am near – we suffer, of course, from psychosomatic disorders. To help people, we have to start by sending them to the psychologist, not stuffing them with drugs, as my colleague Gerkens said. You're working backwards and I'm deeply shocked at this backwards for this category of people who are precarised. Older people must either work longer or take their pension. Belgium is one of the countries with the lowest pensions. To go to the psychologist, it takes money. When you don't have enough money at the end of the month, it's a step you're giving up. And you, you contribute to this ill-being.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u64	Minister, Tuesday, July 17 was a very important day for our country since it was the tax release day. This is the first day that an employee can theoretically stop paying his or her expenses, pay his or her taxes and finally get the full benefits of his or her work. This is an annual study carried out by the EY consultancy office and the Molinari Economic Institute on the basis of OECD data and national statistics. In 2018, our country grew by 10 days compared to 2017. Also in 2018, 100 euros of a worker's purchasing power cost an employer 204 euros. In 2013, under the Di Rupo government, a worker's purchasing power of 100 euros cost the employer 234 euros. We can see how far this government has come. The study noted that the measures taken by this government, specifically under the tax shift, have reduced wage costs – which has increased our country's competitiveness – and the tax burden – which has increased purchasing power. The MR Group welcomes this trend. Minister, what is Belgium's position today in this ranking? Has Belgium made any progress in this ranking? What measures does the government intend to take by the end of the legislature to further reduce wage costs and increase the purchasing power of workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u65	Mr Friart, as you have rightly said, the study that has just emerged from the Molinari and Ernst & Young Economic Institute has actually calculated that the famous "tax freedom day" falls this year on July 17, ten days earlier than last year. This study literally indicates that this positive development is the result of the Michel government's pursuit of the tax shift. That is to be emphasized. According to the parameters used in the study, the Belgian employee, who was the most expensive to hire for many years, is now in fourth place. It is preceded by Luxembourg, Austrian and Dutch employees. You talked about the World Cup football. I am talking about the Tour de France, so we no longer have the yellow jersey in the opposite direction. According to this study – you mentioned these figures – an employer in Belgium currently spends 15% less than four years per net euro. In terms of real purchasing power, the Belgian employee, the subject of the study, occupies the eleventh place. As you know, in 2019, the tax shift will give an additional boost to the purchasing power of these employees. Nevertheless, the study also indicates that the Belgian government collects just over EUR 29,000 a year from the Belgian worker's salary. This remains an important amount that makes us take third place in this ranking. This figure shows that there is still a lot of room for manoeuvre to continue to reduce costs and taxes on employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u66	Mr Minister, I thank you for these figures, through which we see that, with such a ranking, our country is increasingly attractive to investors and also to workers: on the one hand, wage costs are reduced, which increases the number of jobs and, on the other hand, the tax burden is reduced, so that purchasing power is also increased. I am sure that the measures to come in 2018 and 2019 will only increase this trend. For MR, job creation and increased purchasing power are two key priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u67	Madam Secretary of State, the Cinquantenaire Museum has a new name: the Museum of Art & History. That's good, because that indicates a new dynamic for that museum. However, the building, where it rains in, is still in a very lamentable state. A number of renovation works are planned, but there is still a lot of work to be done on this building, before it can really become a public attraction. The museum needs a complete makeover to become a tourist attraction pool again, a bit like the African Museum in Tervuren. With regard to federal museums and scientific institutions, the government has always proposed a very ambitious reform, a kind of redesign of museums and scientific institutions. The first step has already been taken, namely the tilting of the BELSPO administration, but we are still waiting for a number of other important steps, starting with the independence of these institutions and museums. Both the renovation of the buildings and the reform is an important condition to give the federal scientific institutions and museums the appeal they deserve. Madam Secretary of State, will, first of all, alongside the renewal of leaky roofs, other large-scale renovation works start during this legislature? What budget will be allocated for this? Secondly, will the Museum of Art & History get a complete makeover, as I suggested? Thirdly, what is the timing of the reform of federal science policy? Will certain settings be merged? Are you in favour of a far-reaching merger between the Museum of Art & History and the museums at the Kunstberg?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u68	Thank you, Mr van Peteghem, for keeping me informed by regularly asking questions on the subject, including in committee. We certainly share the concern about the leaky roofs. We've seen embarrassing scenes. The good news is that the works can finally start. The works at the Museum of Art & History have been tendered and the contractor will start work in the autumn. It is a very large work, because it concerns thousands of square meters of classified historical buildings. This is also the case for the Museums of Fine Arts, where 25% has already been renewed. Roof renovations are planned there both this year and 2019. The works at the Museum of Art & History are in full swing. The Wolferswinkel, for example, is beautiful. They have done this very nicely; it is a gem, you really should visit it. For the global approach, the Government of the Buildings is launching a study, which should lead to a master plan. After the recess, I will take that dossier to the Council of Ministers. I understand that you are also in favour of this global approach. I hope that we can develop the same dynamics as in the renovation of the African Museum. The reform of the FWIs, some ten federal institutions, i.e. of the structures, also involves staff members, and that is why I shall perhaps surprise you very carefully. [[Rumor]] Mr Calvo, you may not be interested, but this is a very important dossier, because staff are involved and it is always difficult to reach a compromise in a reform, hence my caution. Steps have already been taken, including the integration of the Science Policy PPS and the creation of the Space Agency. There were several comments on the budget, and we have now responded to them. The proposals are currently being discussed with the coalition partners. It is my intention to reach an agreement this year. A merger between the institutions can only be the culmination of a process of change aimed at efficiency and safeguarding the autonomy of the FSIs. In this context, I have taken various measures in recent months. I refer to the Royal Decree of 15 April 2018, which updates the budgetary rules. The BELSPO staff is still under study to see how the service can be improved. All the files are in the pipeline. I hope and also intend to be able to take these steps forward in the reform of the FSIs in accordance with the government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u69	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary of State. You have said that we are sometimes critical, but that is always with good intentions, because we are a partner in the reform and upgrading of our museums. We are well aware that we have an international collection and that there are still a lot of treasures in the basement. They should also be exhibited. They give a certain look to our country and to Brussels as the capital of Europe. We must take the necessary steps. I would therefore like to hear that you will come up with a master plan after the summer. I welcome that, because there is still a great deal of work to be done. With regard to the reform, it is important that there is stability for staff. You rightly said that you cannot go too fast, but we have been waiting for four years. Those people are asking for clarity; they are expecting progress. The time for study and consultancy is over. I think we really need to start the reform now. We will be a partner in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u70	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u71	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, MM. Laaouej and Piedboeuf refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u72	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, the advice of the Council of State says everything about the quality of this bill. It is in fact a law correcting the law quickly passed in December to reform the corporate tax in particular. This law has itself been amended extensively in committee. We have asked for a second reading; on this occasion Parliament's services have given us a legal note which has still required corrections. The Council of State denounces, and we too, this deplorable way of operating in technical and delicate matters such as taxation, particularly as regards the ability to assess the intentions of the government and the budgetary impact of the measures finally voted. This is all the more problematic in view of the fact that, among the measures under review, changes can have a significant impact on the calculation of transfer pricing; measures which may have an impact for some companies in millions or even ten million euros; all the more so for the state budget and public finances. It is in line with this government's actions in tax matters: somewhat vague intentions in the explanatory memorandum of the bills that you are submitting to us; over-evaluations in terms of the budgetary impact of revenues, which never occur when the tax is calculated; a deficit that is growing and will weigh on future generations and investment capacity in the economy of tomorrow and in social cohesion. Unfortunately, this bill does not deny the bad habits of the government. In particular, I would like to highlight three measures that are a problem for us in this text. The first is the increase in the possibility of deduction of share income, up to 800 euros. This measure is anti-redistributive in that it will strengthen the financial resources of people who already have the capacity to invest in shares. If that is the case, it will be to the detriment of all the others, far more numerous, who cannot invest in shares and certainly not for income beyond 800 euros. This is costly. As a reminder, the first step was to replace the exemption from first interest income on savings books. However, given the interest rates currently applied, this measure had become very inexpensive for public finances, as very few taxpayers had reached this ceiling. A measure that no longer costs anything is replaced by a measure whose budgetary impact is poorly assessed and which is likely to have a very strong impact on public finances. Finally, it is not sufficiently targeted, and it is another constant of your government's action. We do believe that certain sectors of the economy, which are particularly innovative, particularly positive in terms of job creation opportunities, which are particularly driving forces for the Belgian economy of tomorrow, can be the subject of targeted measures, with particular support. But your measure is for all coming. Whatever area of economic activity one invests in through these actions, one will benefit from this exemption. There is a need to be much more focused on sectors of the future, on sectors that can re-establish our economy towards excellence and encourage investment and job creation. The second measure I wanted to highlight is the correction of the minimum income conditions for SME managers to be met in order to benefit from the tax reduction for SMEs. At the time of the adoption of the corporate tax reform, we had heard representatives of SMEs, in particular the Union of the Middle Classes, who had denounced the high ceilings and the minimum income to be granted to SME managers to enable them to benefit from this tax reduction. There are fixes, but they are totally inadequate. This government remains deaf to arguments that are yet full of economic meaning. It is those repeated in particular by the Union of the Middle Classes that says that some entrepreneurs, rather than giving themselves high wages, prefer to reinvest their profits in strengthening their production tool, in the investment of equipment that will allow them to last their business, rather than aiming for the short term and high incomes. You remain deaf to these arguments, which are yet full of economic meaning. We don't understand that. In fact, on behalf of my group, I have tabled amendments at second reading which would reduce the ceiling on remuneration without further success. I regret that, but that will not prevent us from continuing to argue in this regard. Finally, in a somewhat anomalous way and without any other form of comment, you remove a particularly interesting ecological measure. This is the ability of companies to deduct 125% of the costs incurred in organizing public transport for their workers, in organizing and supporting workers who would go to work on a bicycle (bike parking, changing rooms, bicycle repair, etc.).). You simply remove this measure. Again, you are completely at odds with contemporary public health issues, including the health of those who go to work by bike. As a regular cyclist, you know how healthy the bike is. But more bikes on the road are also less cars and less pollution from fine particles and therefore less cardiovascular and other diseases. But, also in terms of mobility and economy, and this is one of the indicators that we highlighted this morning in the figures proposed by Ecolo-Groen to evaluate the government's action, Belgium is one of the most bottled countries in Europe. The traffic jams that characterize it every morning and every night obviously cost our economy a lot. Workers who are stuck in traffic jams are non-productive workers. The cost of bottling amounts to billions of euros according to the estimates of the FEB, which is not the study office of Ecolo or Groen. We are talking about more than EUR 8 billion. A government with a real vision for mobility, the environment, public health and savings should encourage alternative modes of transport and, moreover, even if this is not the subject of this text, should finance more SNCB as well as public transport. With this text, it is the opposite you do. You prefer those who already have a lot of means. You do not meet the expectations of SMEs. You do not encourage modern mobility practices that promote public health. It is for these various reasons that we will not be able to support this ill-fated text, whose budgetary impacts are dangerous for our State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u73	Mr President, we shall vote earlier in a rush on a series of texts which will have been discussed during the plenary sittings repeatedly throughout this week. We could already ask ourselves about this way of doing things. It is probably inevitable since the parliamentary calendar causes such traffic at the end of the session. However, this is an opportunity to ask ourselves about how we are working and the quality of legislative work and, in particular, about this text, which reaches a "summit" in poor quality. We are here in the face of a text on which the Council of State has stressed how unsatisfactory it is. The Council of State determines the character of the legal provision "forte-tout". In fact, this document you are presenting to us contains provisions on the activation of savings, including a revision of the ceiling, provisions limiting the rate of the separate contribution to 5% in the event of non-compliance with the minimum remuneration of the company manager. And no doubt, a further legislative amendment will be necessary in order to completely eliminate this unfair assessment. In addition, this tote law contains technical corrections, the scope of which is often unclear. We are faced with a text whose tote character must challenge us. As the Conseil d'État says, here we are reaching a higher degree in the way in which work is stifled, since it is a question of correcting legal provisions, those of the end of 2017, of the famous programme law of 25 December and of the law of the same date on the reform of ISOC. These provisions themselves were already a catch-all measure, which were already said to have to be corrected. So we had passed a law knowing that it was imperfect. The general presentation of your project confirms this, since it states in a fairly transparent manner that it became apparent that, following the review of the December 2017 provisions, improvements were desirable in order to clarify and supplement their scope. In other words, we have knowingly voted for a notoriously imperfect text. What is more, we are already sure that we will not remain there. Indeed, when this problem of restorative law was discussed in committee, a prominent member of the majority pointed out that other remedial measures would likely be added. The Council of State tells us that we cannot continue to work in this way. Such sluggish work will damage not only the quality of the texts, but also a fundamental principle in tax matters, which is equality. Legal certainty in this area – and I do not have to tell you, Minister – is obviously essential. The taxpayer must know in due course what the legal and fiscal effects of its activities will be. The lack of transparency in the manner in which the amendments are proposed can only increase legal uncertainty. The Council of State simply concludes that, in these circumstances, it is unable to carry out its advisory role. I believe it is important to hear this alarm signal from the Council of State, which is not an institution whose remarks can be swept away with a back of the hand. In this case, his opinion is murderous. The term is probably too often used, but we have rarely seen such critical and negative remarks. In a way, the Council of State is out of play. In any case, he declared that he was unable to examine the text fully and thoroughly. Some may rise their shoulders, invoking the existence of a political agreement, but I believe that, collectively, we would have every interest in hearing these criticisms. The draft will of course be voted on, however imperfect it may be. We must collectively consider how to legislate. It is not because there is a political agreement at a given time that it must be translated into a text at all costs. That is why it is necessary to satisfy ourselves with the provisions which are corrected by other provisions which we know will have to be corrected in their turn. It is a way of working that is not satisfactory. This is regularly said in scholarly symposia when we ask ourselves about the quality of legal texts, but here, in this particular case, unfortunately, we have to take note of this and there is no reason to be happy about it! That is why the cdH group, on the procedure used and regardless of the uncertainties related to the content, will vote against the draft so as to mark the blow and thus relay the dissatisfactions of the Council of State, in the hope that in the future we can take account of its recommendations and return to better legislative work. This would be useful for legal certainty in tax matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u74	Are any other members asking for the floor? [[No]] The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a long and interesting discussion in committee. With regard to the very important point raised by the two speakers concerning the Council of State, I would point out that the Council of State had already noted in its original opinion that there was indeed a need to introduce new elements concerning, inter alia, provisions on intra-group transfers, SWC legislation and the deduction of interest. We did it in this project. I would also point out that most of these remarks concern provisions that will only enter into force in 2019 and 2020. The provisions that come into force this year consist of minor amendments and explanations, not substantial changes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u76	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u77	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3147/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1147/7) The draft law has 42 articles. The bill has 42 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u78	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u79	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Gabriels, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u80	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3209/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3209/4) The title was changed by the Commission in draft law establishing local integrated security cells on radicalism, extremism and terrorism." The title has been amended by the committee in draft law on the creation of local integral security cells in the field of radicalism, extremism and terrorism." The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u81	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u82	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Inez De Coninck, David Clarinval, Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u83	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u84	Mr President, I wish to justify our position and vote now rather than just now in the vote. I regret that the Government did not, in due course, make available all the means at the disposal of the Planning Office in order to allow full costing of the electoral programmes of the political parties, which had been initiated in the context of the sixth reform of the State. However, it is quite correct that the wording of the original 2014 law was to say the least nebulous. Article 2 of the Act provided for figures in the lists of priorities and that the latter would be achieved by priority taking into account "the maximum number of priorities set in consultation with the Federal Planning Office." I sum up: in the end, it allowed for little or no calculation and encryption. The content of this law was therefore nebulous. The fact that this bill allows at least to clarify this point and thus to require that there be at least one figure on five priorities is a positive factor. That is why we will vote positively on this bill, even if I maintain my initial regret. I plead with the government that, in the future, sufficient resources should be allocated to the Federal Office of the Plan to enable this calculation of all the political priorities of the various parties in the elections. This is, at some point, a question of political credibility for all and for all citizens. Mr President, you will have understood that we will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u85	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u86	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3227/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3227/4) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u87	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u88	Complemented by the Senate As amended by the Senate Without report Not related There is no general discussion in plenary on a draft law which has been returned to the Chamber by the Senate (unless the Conference of Presidents decides otherwise) (Rule 87 of the Rules of Procedure). Bills referred to the House by the Senate are no longer the subject of general discussion in plenary (unless the Conference of Presidents decides otherwise) (Rule 87).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u90	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2815/11) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2815/11) The draft special law consists of 4 articles. The special bill has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u91	• 12 – Olivier Maingain cs (2815/14)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u92	• 13 • Olivier Maingain cs (2815/14) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Conclusion of the discussion of the articles: Sustained: the vote on the amendments that have been adopted and Articles 2 and 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u93	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u94	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u95	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Brecht Vermeulen, Katja Gabriels, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u96	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Gabriels, who refers to the written report. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u97	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3217/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3217/4) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in 的proposal for a law amending the Act of 21 March 2007 regulating the installation and use of surveillance cameras with a view to improving the consistency of the text and its compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) ". The title in French has been amended by the commission in the form of a bill amending the Act of 21 March 2007 regulating the installation and use of surveillance cameras with a view to improving the consistency of the text and its compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)". The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u98	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u99	Colleagues, I have informed you that there will be a meeting of the Naturalization Committee at 5:00 p.m. That meeting's gonna take five minutes at most. The naturalisation law needs to be amended urgently on the basis of some of the data provided by the public prosecutor. Of course, this naturalisation law cannot be dealt with in plenary until it has been discussed in committee. I will ensure that this meeting is held as soon as possible, but I still have to suspend the plenary session, even for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u100	Mr President, is it not possible to ask for the committee to be held immediately? Colleagues from all political parties are present here. It might be enough to call Nahima Lanjri because we met yesterday and agreed. I propose that the meeting be convened immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u101	I propose that Mrs Lanjri be contacted to organise the committee as soon as possible in order to be able to move forward. The committee meets in Room 3. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u102	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u103	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Nahima Lanjri, Werner Janssen, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Catherine Fonck, Monica De Coninck, Nawal Ben Hamou, Tim Vandenput. Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u104	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u105	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3247/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3247.3) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u106	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u107	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 July 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Conseil De groote) amending the Act of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with regard to the tasks and training of authorised arms dealers, No. 3237/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Els Van Hoof) amending the law of 7 May 1999 on games of chance, betting, gambling facilities and the protection of players, in order to establish a structural consultation between the Gaming Commission and representatives of aid for report and financial debt and users' representatives, No. 3239/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u108	- the bill (Mrs Nathalie Muylle) amending the Royal Decree of 18 September 2015 implementing Article 53 (1) of the Law on compulsory medical care and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994, concerning the third-party payment scheme, No. 3238/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u109	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 July 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Mr Koenraad Degroote) amending the Act of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with weapons with regard to the tasks and training of approved gunmen, No. 3237/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms. Els Van Hoof) amending the Act of 7 May 1999 on gambling, betting, gambling establishments and the protection of players, with a view to organising a structural consultation between the gambling commission, representatives of social assistance services in the field of dependency and financial debts and representatives of users, No 3239/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u110	- the bill (Ms Nathalie Muylle) amending the Royal Decree of 18 September 2015 implementing Article 53, § 1 of the Law on Compulsory Health Care and Allowances Insurance, coordinated on 14 July 1994, relating to the regime of the paying third party, No. 3238/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u111	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose that you consider the following proposals: - the legislative proposal (Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Evita Willaert cs) amending the Law on the recovery of 22 January 1985 laying down social provisions in order to provide for a right to parental leave of 1/10 working time reduction, No. 3243/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u112	- the bill (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem cs) amending the law of 7 May 1999 on games of chance, betting, gambling facilities and the protection of players with regard to betting on horse races, No. 3245/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u113	I also propose that you take into account the following proposals: - the proposal for a law (Mr Georges Gilkinet and Ms Evita Willaert et al.) amending the Act of 22 January 1985 on reorganization containing social provisions, aimed at opening up the right to parental leave at 1/10th time, No. 3243/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u114	- the bill (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem et al.) amending the Act of 7 May 1999 on games of chance, betting, gambling establishments and the protection of players with regard to betting on horse racing, No. 3245/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u115	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u116	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on 10 July 2018. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises of 10 July 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 269/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Dedecker and Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 269/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Dedecker and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u117	Yes [[74]] Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u118	Mr President, I would like to take the floor briefly before voting begins. Since the recess is about to come and you have a role to play in the convening of the committees, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Mr De Vriendt took Mr Vermeulen as chairman of the Committee on the Interior to convene the committee as soon as possible. The response of the Minister of Justice just now shows that Secretary of State Francken did not fully tell the truth about the DVZ's actions and the information they had on the Albanian criminal. Mr De Vriendt wants to hear the Secretary of State on the Committee for the Interior as soon as possible. I would like to inform you of this because you will have to plan this together with Mr Vermeulen as soon as the recess begins.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u119	I will contact Mr Vermeulen and we will make the necessary arrangements. The Chamber will be informed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u120	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3164/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3164/5) Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Jef Van den Bergh voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u121	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3143/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3143/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u122	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Fabienne Winckel cs on article 2. (3154/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Fabienne Winckel cs to Article 2. (3154/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 51 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Fabienne Winckel cs on article 2. (3154/5) Vote on the amendment No 8 of Fabienne Winckel cs in Article 2. (3154/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 51 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Fabienne Winckel cs on article 6. (3154/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Fabienne Winckel cs to Article 6. (3154/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u123	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Fabienne Winckel cs on article 9. (3154/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Fabienne Winckel cs to Article 9. (3154/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 54 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Fabienne Winckel cs to insert an article 29/1(n). (3154/5) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Fabienne Winckel cs to insert an Article 29/1(n). (3154/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 48 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u124	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 76 Yes No. 13 No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 133 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3154/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3154/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u125	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3200/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3200/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u126	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3121/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3121/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u127	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[115]] Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3148/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3148/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u128	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 87 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 45 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3172/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3172/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou abstained. Mr Youro Casier has abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u129	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 112 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (3178/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (3178/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u130	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 88 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 49 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3179/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3179/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u131	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (320/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3208/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u132	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 78 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 58 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3185/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3185/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u133	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (313/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (313/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Griet Smaers and Mr Stefaan Vercamer voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u134	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (357/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (357/ 8)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2240/11) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2240/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2464/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2464/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 97 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2396/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2396/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Sarah Smeyers voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u138	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1820/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1820/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mr Egbert Lachaert voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u139	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Marcel Cheron cs on Article 2. (2161/6) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Marcel Cheron to Article 2. (2161/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u140	Mr President, I had tabled a very, very important amendment – like any amendment tabled by our group – on the school street with regard to mobile barriers. After discussion with the author of the proposal, Mrs Dumery – whom I thank – and the services, I will withdraw the amendment that we tabled so that it is the word "verplaatsbaar" which is translated into French not by "mobiles" but by "deplaçables". Therefore, this technical correction allows us to avoid the amendment and I thank the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u141	Article 2 as amended is adopted. Article 2, as amended, was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u142	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2161/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2161/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u143	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs on request 5. (1277/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs on request 5. (1277/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 52 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs inserting an application 14(n). (1277/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Gilles Vanden Burre cs to insert a request 14(n). (1277/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes 54 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u144	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u145	Mr. President, I'm going to be very short. This is one of those motions for resolutions which are quite typical of the majority and which are hypocritical. It indicates the opposite of the results of the government's policy. Here, it's really obvious. The MR is quite specialized in this process, but the others don't get away with it either! This is to justify our major group's amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u146	Mr President, yesterday I took care to demonstrate to you by eleven of the thirteen points expressed in the motion for a resolution – indeed Mr Van Hees – either the hypocrisy of the proposal or the clear will of the Members of Parliament of this majority to oppose radically the policy pursued by the government. This may surprise you, Mr President, but we are going to vote in favour of this text, because that is what we want. If you vote for this text, join us in this fight and, together, let the postal services evolve in a positive way! By voting on this text, you object to the government's policy. We thank you and congratulate you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u147	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 122 Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1277/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1277/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Dirk Van der Maelen voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2598/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2598/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 97 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (3162/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (3162/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u150	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, our group can agree on the content of the minimalist proposal that has been put forward. For symbolic reasons, however, I will abstain from the vote. The proposal on the table is a first, small step in the right direction, namely a total ban on killer robots, but it goes far less than the original proposal of Ecolo-Green colleagues. It is actually a missed opportunity and the majority proposal should not be an end. The committee has already discussed four times a motion for a resolution on the ban on killer robots. The Ecolo-Green proposal went much further than the text that is now being voted on, and took our preference away. Despite the amendments tabled to respond to requests from the majority, the majority itself is now presenting a proposal, which is clearly less far-reaching. It only prohibits the use of armed robots by Belgian defence, while the original proposal aimed at banning the manufacture, trade and use of autonomous weapons. Compare this with the fact that we have nuclear weapons on our territory, while we advocate a ban on the use of nuclear weapons in international fora. It is clear that we do not have such an attitude in this debate either. The result of this double-sided approach is, on the one hand, to ban the use, on the other hand, to possess weapons, and, on the other hand, to have only nuclear weapons added and/or modernised over the last decade. I conclude with regard to the proposal: it is an elephant who has given birth to a mouse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u152	Mr President, during the general discussion, I had the opportunity to explain why my group will be voting for this motion for a resolution, despite its very minimalist nature. I also explained the formal and substantive reasons for my abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u153	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (320/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (320/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u154	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u155	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Veerle Wouters cs on Article 2. (2801/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Veerle Wouters cs to Article 2. (2801/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 5 Yes No. [[120]] No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Meryame Kitir cs on article 2. (2801/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Meryame Kitir cs to Article 2. (2801/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes 53 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 2. (2801/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 2. (2801/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes [[14]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Sonja Becq voted against. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 2. (2801/4) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 2. (2801/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes 34 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 2. (2801/4) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 2. (2801/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes 57 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 2. (2801/4) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 2. (2801/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u156	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert an article 2/1(n). (2801/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert an Article 2/1(n). (2801/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 123 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 3. (2801/4) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 3. (2801/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 37) Yes 57 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 38) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor. Mr. Frédéric Daerden voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 39) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u159	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u160	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. I made a mistake. The vote is invalid and will therefore be cancelled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u161	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Veerle Wouters cs to insert an article 1(n). (2803/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Veerle Wouters cs to insert an Article 1(n). (2803/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 41) Yes [[28]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Kattrin Jadin voted against. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 2. (2803/4) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 2. (2803/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 42) Yes 44 Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert an article 3(n). (2803/4) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to insert an Article 3(n). (2803/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u162	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u163	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 43) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 139 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u164	Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u165	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 44) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u166	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 45) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u167	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 46) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 139 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u168	Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u169	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 47) Yes 134 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 139 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u170	Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u171	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 48) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u172	Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u173	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 49) Yes 81 Yes No. [[19]] No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 139 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3016/9) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3016/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u174	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 50) Yes 81 Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2940/12) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2940/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u175	Vote on Amendment No 7 by André Frédéric cs to insert an article 1/1(n). (3107/7) Vote on Amendment No 7 by André Frédéric cs to insert an Article 1/1(n). (3107/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 51) Yes 52 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 139 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by André Frédéric cs to insert an article 1/2(n). (3107/7) Vote on Amendment No 8 by André Frédéric cs to insert an Article 1/2(n). (3107/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Votes/Votes 51) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u176	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 52) Yes 100 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 38 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be sent to the Senate. (3107/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be forwarded to the Senate. (3107/ 8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u177	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 53) Yes 87 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3087/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3087/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u178	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 54) Yes 87 Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3088/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3088/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u179	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 55) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3129/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3129/4) Mrs Isabelle Poncelet voted in favour. Mr Filip Dewinter also voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u180	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 56) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3145/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3145/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 57) Yes 90 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3146/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3146/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u182	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 58) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3170/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3170/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u183	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u184	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3192/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3192/04)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u185	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs on Article 2. (3086/6) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs to Article 2. (3086/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 60) Yes 51 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Mrs. Anne Dedry voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u186	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 61) Yes 81 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3086/7) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3086/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u187	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 62) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 2743/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 2743/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u188	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 63) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (3184/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (3184/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u189	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 64) Yes 81 Yes No. [[27]] No Abstentions 31 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2848/12) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2848/12) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u190	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 65) Yes 92 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 47 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3126/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3126/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u191	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 66) Yes 81 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3147/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3147/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u192	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 67) Yes 119 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (32095) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (32095) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u193	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 68) Yes 87 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 52 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3227/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3227/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u194	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 69) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u195	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 70) Yes [[85]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 52 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3217/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3217/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, while our voting machine is being prepared for the remaining votes on the draft special law, I would like to address you in response to the end of our work. I will not overwhelm you with figures and statistics to show that our assembly has also worked hard this year. However, I should like to inform you that this year we voted 516 times in 56 plenary sessions. The members of parliament asked the government more than 700 oral questions in plenary. You know, moreover, that I keep a thorough record of this, and I have not only recorded but also kept records of speaking time. It's the end of the year, the right time to hand out a number of prizes and non-prices. The most exemplary student of the class is Mr Carcaci of the PP, who, as an opposition party, does not make full use of his speaking time. In particular, it is almost 2% below it, for which it is grateful. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u197	There is also, of course, the other side of the coin. Those are our two comrades from the PTB, so I'll call them for the occasion. As you can see, the opposition has every opportunity in this Chamber. They exceed their speaking time by almost 30%. But apart from that, ladies and gentlemen, what deserves to be emphasized is that we have adopted a number of important pieces of legislation. For example, issues such as rail transport service, corporate tax, security account tax, mobility allowance, untaxed supplementary income and accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector organizations have been translated into laws with major societal consequences. The House also relied on the work of the Policy Renewal Working Group to adopt a series of reforms dealing with pay transparency and the cumulation of remuneration and mandates. Three parliamentary committees of inquiry ended their work by discussing their report in plenary session: the Committee of Inquiry "Terrorist attacks," the Committee of Inquiry "Panama Papers" and the Committee of Inquiry "Minimal Settlement in Criminal Matters." In addition, of course, there were countless resolutions. I will take one out: the resolution on equal treatment for German. I take them out because this Chamber also takes them to heart. The website will soon be updated and you will see that the number of texts in German will have increased considerably. So we're on the right track, Mrs. Jadin. Colleagues, in the end-of-year address I gave to this assembly seven months ago, I predicted that 2018 would be a busy year. This is all the more true in view of the fact that the communal elections are fast approaching and that the European, federal and regional elections will then follow in the same direction. I am confident that the electoral fever will not prevent us from continuing our work in this House with constancy and seriousness. It is indeed the materials we have in this house that make the future of the population conditional. Moreover, in order to provide lasting responses to the increasing number of challenges ahead, we need to carry out substantive work in a constructive spirit. The fact that indifference and indifference, as recent research has shown, is an ever-increasing distrust of politics, is a reason to show responsibility and to care for the management of our res publica. But now, good fellow Members, first and foremost: vacation. I would like to thank Mr Registrar, the staff and all the staff of our assembly. Due to their daily commitment and permanent availability, we were able to do our job in optimal conditions. My thanks go also to the journalists – the two former colleagues in Belga – and to the press for the media coverage of our work. Finally, I also thank the military commander and the personnel who provide security - our security - in and around the Palace of the Nation. I thank the general for the good services. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are also saying goodbye to someone who, on his Flemish term, belongs to the Chamber's inventary. I am talking about Willy De Smet, one of our drivers, who also arranges our transport when our sessions last for a long time. [[Applause]] Willy, let me get personal: it's a shame you're leaving us, but we're giving you a long and healthy pension. Thank you for the many good services. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you and your loved ones a pleasant and revigorating holiday and await you all with courage in this House on Thursday, 20 September, for the first plenary session after the parliamentary holidays. I also wish the Prime Minister and members of the government and their collaborators a profitable holiday. Colleagues, good luck to you all, and I'll see you in September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u198	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we commemorated Nelson Mandela, who, born on 18 July, would have been 100 years old. The Mandela Day is first and foremost a tribute to this exceptional figure in our contemporary history, but it is also, through it, a reminder of the precious virtue that democracy is. Having been a political prisoner for 27 years and then becoming president of a state free of apartheid, this is only possible by the laws of democracy. And it is precisely this precious asset that we are dealing with on a daily basis, ladies and gentlemen. We do so with our respective, converging or divergent convictions, but, in any case, with the widely shared conviction that our Parliament is intended not to achieve consensus at all costs but to ensure the peaceful management of our differences. This year, the summer truce will be of short duration or even of very short duration, communal elections oblige. But I have no doubt that the performance of the Red Devils will have shown everyone that nothing is played in advance, in football as well as in politics. That being said, let us remain lucid! It's not Eden Hazard who wants it, either! Let's remember the most important thing: winning is good, but winning while remaining fair play is even better! I want, as the Speaker did, to thank all the services of the House – I cannot, of course, mention them all – for their effective work in the service of our institution. I would like to ask the Registrar, who I would also like to thank for his outstanding work, to convey our thanks to the staff. Of course I cannot list them all, but I would like to thank all the services of the Chamber for their efficient work at the service of our institution. I would also like to thank you, Mr Registrar, for your excellent work and to ask you to convey our thanks to the staff. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you great holidays and tell you very soon, for new parliamentary adventures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u199	Complemented by the Senate As amended by the Senate
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u200	I would remind you that the provisions and the whole of a draft special law must be adopted by a majority of the votes in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each language group are present and that the total of the yes votes in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast (Article 4 last paragraph of the Constitution) I remind you that the provisions and the whole of a special bill must be adopted by a majority of the votes cast in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each group are present and that the total of the positive votes cast in both linguistic groups reach two thirds of the votes cast (Article 4, last paragraph, of the Constitution). Vote on Amendment No 12 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 2. (2815/14) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 2. (2815/14) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 71) F I'll see you later. N Yes 9 26 17 Yes Non 39 99 60 No. Abstensions 8 13 5 Abstentions Total 56 138 82 Total The majority of the votes in each language group have not been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The majority of votes in each group shall not be cast. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall not be cast. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Olivier Maingain cs to omit Article 4. (2815/14) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Olivier Maingain cs to delete Article 4. (2815/14) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 72) F I'll see you later. N Yes 35 57 22 Yes Non 20 81 61 No. Abstensions 1 1 0 Abstentions Total 56 139 83 Total The majority of the votes in each language group have not been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The majority of votes in each group shall not be cast. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall not be cast. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-19-54-plenair-ip243x.u201	Complemented by the Senate As amended by the Senate I would remind you that the provisions and the whole of a draft special law must be adopted by a majority of the votes in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each language group are present and that the total of the yes votes in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast (Article 4 last paragraph of the Constitution) I remind you that the provisions and the whole of a special bill must be adopted by a majority of the votes cast in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each group are present and that the total of the positive votes cast in both linguistic groups reach two thirds of the votes cast (Article 4, last paragraph, of the Constitution). Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 73) F I'll see you later. N Yes 51 129 78 Yes Non 0 3 3 No. Abstensions 5 7 2 Abstentions Total 56 139 83 Total The majority of the votes cast in each language group have been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority has been achieved. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft special law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2815/15) The majority of votes in each group shall be cast. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall be cast. As a result, the House passed the special bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2815/15) The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 20 September 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 20 September 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
