ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u1	We shall now proceed to the round of questions. There are a lot of questions. On behalf of the Conference of Presidents, as President, I have to limit the time for the question. We have a clock now, too. When you start your question, time goes on. That is also true in the European Parliament. Those who've been to meetings in the Berlaymont know there's a clock. After 2 minutes 30, the clock fails. It is therefore 2 minutes 30 for the questioner and 2 minutes 30 for the answer, five minutes in total. Then there is a possibility of reply limited to one minute. Following the question, you can always take the Minister's answer, but we really must abide by the Rules of Procedure. So be concise. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 27138 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u2	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the action taken by the Brussels Airport customs officers at the end of October. These actions have mainly been carried out to report the lack of personnel to the services that control goods and persons. Minister, can you tell us if you have received the trade union organizations to hear their demands in the wake of this zealous strike movement? If so, have any measures been taken to hire staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u3	Mr Corthouts, an interim consultation committee was held on Tuesday 23 October this year with the trade union organisations represented in the FPS Finances. At this committee, the recruitment actions already carried out, under way and planned were explained for the various port and airport sites, including Brussels Airport. Bachelier Shift, Douanier Shift and Master selections were launched last September. Additional recruitment is planned from that end of November.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u4	What is the number of planned recruitments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u5	As soon as the customs give me the numbers, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u7	Minister, my question therefore is about the anti-abuse rules. The Constitutional Court, in its judgment No. 141/2013 of 30 October 2013, held that Article 18, § 2, of the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights is not a general authorization for the administration to determine, by means of general measures, the taxable matter itself, but constitutes a means of proof intended to assess, in concrete cases, under the supervision of the judge, specific situations, individually. Before the Constitutional Court, your position was that the anti-abuse provisions are only evidence and therefore procedural rules for which the federal legislature remains competent as long as it provides the tax service concerned free of charge, as attested by Article 5, § 3 and § 4 of the above-mentioned special law of 16 January 1989. Minister, could you confirm to me that the anti-abuse rules set out in sections 344, § 1 and 344/1 of IARC 92 are indeed considered procedural rules? Does the procedural rule laid down in Article 344 § 1 of IARC 92 apply to the autonomous tax provisions of the said Tax Code?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u8	Mr Corthouts, I will also be brief because the President is ruthless with regard to the time allotted. I can confirm that the anti-abuse rule in Article 344(1) of IARC 92 is indeed a procedural rule. Similarly, the objective of Article 344/1 is also to make possible the application of the general anti-abuse provision, as referred to in Article 344 § 1, to legal acts imposed by a legal construction which is not in itself a taxpayer. It is therefore also a procedural rule, which was confirmed by the Constitutional Court in 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u9	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 27428 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u11	Mrs. Fonck can't be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u12	Mr Minister, given the time pressure, I will not repeat the whole explanation contained in the written version of the question. The professional is obliged to identify the economic beneficiaries of his clients and to take reasonable measures to verify their identity. The professional is not expressly obliged to consult the UBO register. As in the past, he can rely on the information he has received directly from his client. Mr President, can you clarify whether, in accordance with the provisions cited, economic professionals should consult the UBO register, or whether their consultation is optional, in the context of the requirement for identification and identity verification by those economic professions? If professionals are obliged to consult the UBO register and in view of their control obligations vis-à-vis companies and their final beneficiaries, would it not be logical that the consultation should be free of charge?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u13	I can confirm that the subject entities do not currently have an obligation to consult the UBO register when they fulfil their obligation to identify the identity of the final beneficiaries of their clients. It goes without saying that the UBO register is a useful tool for the identification obligation and that the register was created mainly for the benefit of the obliged entities. In view of that service and the substantial costs of the registry, a financial contribution from the obliged entities is therefore desirable. As far as your last question is concerned, I can inform you that a particular professional group has lodged an appeal for annulment with the Council of State, in particular against Article 19 (1) of the Royal Decree because of a possible problem of professional secrecy. As you should know, I await the judgment of the Council of State on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u15	I don't have a message from Mrs. Ceysens. Her question No. 27569 should be deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u16	Mr President, that was a question of figures. I can get you those numbers. I think Mrs Ceysens will be relatively satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u17	I can read out Mrs Ceysen's question for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u18	Mr Van Biesen will read the question for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u19	Mr President, Minister, this question concerns the tax advantages in support of research and development. I refer to my colleague Patricia Ceysen's written question of 24 January 2018, to which she still did not receive an answer. In order to stimulate the investment of companies in research and development, the federal government grants several tax advantages. In addition, the regions grant a lot of direct research and development aid in the form of grants. The federal tax advantages consist, on the one hand, of a partial exemption from the transfer of company tax to certain target groups. On the other hand, there are additional tax advantages, such as the tax credit for investment in research and development. The former patent deduction was lifted from 1 July 2016 and replaced by the innovation deduction. This innovation deduction is valid not only for income from a patent, but also for income from copyright protection software, plant variety rights, orphan medicinal products and data and market exclusivity. Mrs Ceysens already asked a written question about the use of these tax advantages and the budgetary impact. She liked to get the figures for the years 2016 and 2017, per year and per Region. The federal government grants tax concessions. There is also a tax deduction or a tax credit for investments in research and development. Can you give an overview of the figures for the years 2016 and 2017? How many companies made use of this tax advantage? Under certain conditions, companies could also benefit from a tax deduction of 80% of the income from patents. Can you give an overview of the budgetary impact figures of this measure for the years 2016 and 2017? How many companies made use of this tax advantage? The patent deduction was replaced by a new innovation deduction. Are figures already available for this deduction, since its entry into force to date? If yes, please provide an overview of the number of companies that have used it, the tax advantage and the difference between the innovation deduction and the patent deduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u20	Mr President, I have a complete and fairly detailed overview of the figures requested. Mrs. Ceysen can put her teeth in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u21	Thanks a lot! I use "absolutely" because Mrs Ceysens always uses this word.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u22	Minister, L'Echo and De Tijd announced this 9 November that the Belgian State becomes a shareholder of the Euroclear Securities Manager, having acquired a 2% stake in this European Securities Depository. These shares have so far been in the hands of the French bank Société Générale. The transaction was carried out through the Federal Equity and Investment Corporation (SFPI), according to daily newspapers. The amount of the transaction is EUR 120 million, which values Euroclear at almost EUR 6 billion. Euroclear regulates in Brussels the securities transactions of 2,000 large investors, such as pension funds or insurers from all over the world, but also Libyan funds. The company is looking after nearly EUR 29 000 billion of customer securities deposited with the institution. I wonder about the meaning of the operation, at a time when the Belgian State announces that it wants to withdraw from the financial sector, in particular from the Belfius public bank – which we consider to be a bad idea – at a time when we are trying to clarify the issue of Libyan funds – in which Euroclear intervenes – at a time when the government is announcing a strategic investment plan to meet the challenges of tomorrow, particularly in terms of energy and mobility, and at a time when the fight against tax fraud is taking place, which requires a total capacity to control banks and financial operators, including Euroclear. Minister, do you confirm the Belgian State's acquisition of Euroclear shares via the SFPI? What was the price paid for the redemption of these shares? What was the commission paid – and to which operator – to carry out this operation? What is the objective pursued by the Belgian State with this participation? Is it not in contradiction with your objective of exiting the financial sector, particularly Belfius stock exchange? Is it not likely to limit the ability to control this financial operator of the Belgian State? This is the dissociation between financial actors and supervisors, which I think is a good example of in the financial field.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u23	Mr Gilkinet, I confirm the purchase by the SFPI of Euroclear shares. I would point out, however, that this is not a delegated mission on instructions from the Belgian State, but rather an autonomous investment made by the SFPI. The Board of Directors of the SFPI found that this investment was in line with its investment strategy as recently defined in its management contract, namely an investment in a critical infrastructure of the financial sector. This is also consistent with the logic of its entry into Euronext's capital in 2014, a company in which SFPI has since held 4.5%, since it is also an essential financial infrastructure in the same value chain. The objective of maintaining Brussels' financial position on the scale in a competitive European context was also a key element in the decision. In addition, the SFPI considered the financial opportunity to be interesting, since, in particular, there was some stability in the expected dividend. On the price, I can confirm the figures you are quoting regarding the valuation of Euroclear that has been chosen. There have also been no other costs than the traditional costs of this type of transaction, namely the costs of counseling and the costs associated with external valuation. No commissions were paid. Euroclear's situation and activity are not comparable to the Belfius file. The State entered Belfius in 2011 in the context of a rescue operation of an active retail bank in Belgium and has since held 100% of the shares. Even by decreasing its shareholding through a partial sale, the State will remain a majority shareholder and will therefore remain exposed. Taking 2% into Euroclear, whose clearance and settlement activity is radically different from Belfius's activity, both at the level of the occupation and at the geographical level, is in no way in contradiction with Belfius's project of a partial IPO (Initial Public Offering). Finally, the role of shareholder is clearly distinct from that of controller and there will be no influence on the level of control as long as corporate governance rules are respected, which is of course my intention. Finally, SFPI has invested in the parent company and is therefore not a shareholder of Euroclear Bank, to which you refer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answer. You indicate that this is a stand-alone decision of the SFPI under its management contract. However, I would be surprised if such an investment were carried out without consultation or agreement from the supervisory authority, which represents all our fellow citizens. You then compare the investment in Euroclear with the investment in Euronext. You will allow me to consider that the Brussels Stock Exchange falls into a category other than a bank of banks. I know your goal of maintaining Brussels as a financial centre that counts. However, it seems essential to me that this is not the case at any cost, particularly in the absence of ethics and control capacity, especially when it is necessary to punish a bank operator who has committed irregularities – which has happened too rarely in the past. I hear your explanations about Belfius' latest investments, which would differ greatly from those of Euroclear. Let me not find this distinction as logical as you think. Finally, as regards the difference between the roles of shareholder and controller, these functions are carried out by separate entities within the Federal State: the SFPI, on the one hand, and the National Bank, on the other. Having said that, I have already asked you about other files in your capacity as shareholder representative, in order to determine your ability to try to influence the economic model and manager of the operators in which the state intervenes. I will also pay attention to Euroclear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u25	Minister, the question I would like to put to you was delivered to me from Kom op tegen Kanker. Come on against Cancer is worried about the cigaretteillo, which is on the rise as an innovative tobacco product. A cigarillo should represent a small, thin cigar, but in fact it is just a classic cigarette with filter, replacing the paper around the cigarette with a tobacco leaf. The cigarillo is usually smaller and thinner than a cigar, but larger and wider than a cigarette. The fact that the smoke is covered by the category of cigarillos and does not fall under the category of cigarette, according to the Royal Decree of 5 February 2016, also excludes cigarillos from the tax regime of the cigarette. Lucky Strike currently advertises a package of 2.70 euros for ten and Mercator Cigarillos with filter are now available on the market at 3.00 euros for a pack of ten. Because packages can be sold in smaller quantities at low prices, they are also much faster within reach of young people. Mr President, how many excise duties are currently being applied to these cigarillos?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u26	Mrs Van Hoof, an excise duty equal to 10% of the retail selling price is currently charged on cigars and cigarillos on the tax registration number.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u27	Minister, that is less than the excise duty on a cigarette, whereas a cigarette is actually a cigarette. They expressed their concern about this. Perhaps you can discuss that further, because organizations like the Kankerliga and Come on against Cancer report that it is actually a hidden cigarette that comes on the market cheaply for young people. In this respect, I have raised that concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u28	Apparently, the definition of cigarillos has changed. My dad smoked cigarillos about 50 years ago. A cigarillo resembled a cigar and was much better than a cigarette. He smoked cigarillos of the Willem II brand. Is such a traditional cigaretteillo still in existence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u29	Mr President, I am sure we do not have the same father, but my father smoked exactly the same brand of cigarillos.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u30	Those cigarillos produced a lot of smoke on my dad's desk. Each time he had smoked for hours of cigarillos during the preparation of his courses, my mother was forced to open the windows. Mrs. Van Hoof, are the cigarillos you mention a variant of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u31	Apparently. The question was passed on to me. I don't smoke. My father smoked Corps Diplomatique, which I can guarantee you was ten times worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Klaps' 27594 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u33	Minister, your colleague the Minister of Justice has introduced an important reform of the Code of Societies and Associations. This reform removes the lucrative objective criterion from the definition of association. The ASBL will therefore be "not-for-profit" only by name. The only criterion for distinguishing between a corporation and an association will be the distribution of profits to members or directors. This prohibition on the distribution of dividends for a BLSO will not, in theory, prevent the BLSO from providing its members with services free of charge that fall within its scope and are part of its unselfish purpose. The definition of ancillary economic activity in the Income Tax Code (CIR92), originally derived from the 1921 Act, became orphaned. The Council of State stated in its opinion on the draft law that "the new criterion of distinction between companies and associations (...) could upset the way in which tax provisions relating to corporate tax liability are interpreted or applied." Moreover, this change will create legal uncertainty which the case law will have to clarify. The boundary between the hidden dividend (indirect distribution of profits) and the free member service is unclear. The benefits to members that an association would push too far could be considered null and void with the result of discouraging true NSOs from innovating in their services to members. However, for malintentioned persons ("Fake ASBL"), there will be a grey area wide enough to test new combinations and distribute hidden dividends while unduly benefiting from the ASBL regime. Minister, will the new distinction between corporations and associations upset the way in which tax provisions relating to corporate tax liability are interpreted or applied? Does the FPS Finance provide for the circulation of internal circulars following this reform, particularly with regard to the taxation of ASBL? What is the substance of this? Do you see an increased potential for "fake ASBL" with this change of criterion? Could the tax administration direct its research efforts more towards associations to be subject to corporate tax? To date, it has been the responsibility of the tax authority to prove that a BLSO is primarily for profit and that it must be subject to corporate tax. Is the burden of proof likely to be reversed since associations will no longer, by definition, be non-profit? Invalidity is provided for operations which violate the prohibition of distribution. Will the tax administration continue these distributions in order to subject them to the expense of furniture or will the effectiveness of refunds following the nullity be assumed? Do you have examples of free or reduced-price services to members that could be considered indirect distribution or subject to debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u34	Mr de Lamotte, the analysis of the possible tax consequences of the proposed amendment to the Company Code with regard to NSOs is premature. This text has not yet been adopted. Having said that, the question of the taxability of an LSA to income taxes depends on a set of elements, the assessment of which is, first of all, the responsibility of the tax authorities, on the basis of the documents and information provided in support of the annual declaration or in the framework of a control. The situation must always be examined on a case-by-case basis. The assessment criteria to be taken into account in this respect will remain relevant after the amendment of the above-mentioned Code. In the present case, there is no principle subjecting an ASBL to the tax of legal persons. These taxpayers are required to attach to their returns the documents necessary for the assessment of the applicable tax system. However, the government's will is to maintain the current principles. Finally, for the tax authorities, nothing will change.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer and conclusion. At one point, since the amendment voted yesterday in committee is important as regards proof of the status of ASBL, there is still a vagueness that the case law will have to analyse. I hear your position in principle, that there will be no change in this matter. As you said at the beginning of your intervention, all cases will be analysed on a case-by-case basis based on the statements. However, in the code as adopted yesterday the question of the invalidity of a number of acts arises. This will cause problems of interpretation, requalification or disqualification of a number of operations. I therefore hear your position in principle, but I think that in practice adaptations or circulars will have to be mentioned. With this question, and following our position in this Code, it is clear that care must be taken to promote the world of associations, which renders an important service to citizens. Thank you for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u36	This is a remarkable trio, even if Mr Piedboeuf is the only speaker present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u37	Mr President, I do not mind being alone! Mr Minister, the current situation has highlighted the question of legal certainty of advance rulings issued by the ad hoc service. The purpose of the Act of 24 December 2002 amending the corporate income tax regime and establishing an advance tax ruling system was to adopt an appropriate legal framework to improve the legal certainty of taxpayers and investors. As is recalled in the parliamentary work before the law, the proper conduct and development of economic activities require the existence of a legal system ensuring optimum predictability of the consequences arising from the acts committed. The advance ruling system therefore provides administrative guarantees as to the tax consequences of the actions that taxpayers or prospective investors intend to take. In a particularly instructive opinion, the Council of State considered the application of the principle of legal certainty. One conclusion is that an advance ruling should not cease to have effect until the interpretation of the legal provisions on which the administration was based is condemned by a published judicial decision and not subject to appeal. Minister, do you share the opinion of the Council of State? More generally, do you confirm that taxpayers can still obtain legal certainty from the Anticipated Rulings Service (ADS) to which they aspire?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u38	Mr. Piedboeuf, first of all, it is important to recall the principle of legal certainty that the 2002 legislator sought to guarantee by linking the entire FPS Finances to the advance ruling system, in which the taxpayer is entitled to place his or her legitimate trust. In this case, you are referring to questions relating to individual files. I would remind you, therefore, that I am in no way authorized to disclose information in the light of professional secrecy. In addition, control services obviously verify that taxpayers correctly apply the advance rulings communicated to them. I am not aware of any ruling cases that have been found illegal by the tax authorities. This reflects our confidence in the ADS; shared trust by taxpayers, given the increasing number of cases introduced each year and the efforts made by the ADS to make its access easy for SMEs and individuals. On the other hand, it is clear that if the conditions of an advance ruling are not met by the taxpayer, operational services can obviously conduct an investigation. In this case, consultation between the ADS and central services is provided for in the cooperation protocol they have concluded. It should be noted that this protocol can always be re-discussed with a view to improving collaboration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u39	Minister, I thank you for confirming what is ultimately very important, that advance rulings have the force of law from the moment the taxpayer respects, of course, the substance of the matter and the substance of the agreement. He reassures me that files can continue to be submitted to the Anticipated Decisions Service, and that the Service and the Administration will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u40	Minister, the European Commission wants to reform VAT rates. I have already asked questions about this in the past, but this question deals specifically with the provision of works of art. The European Commission proposes to abolish the existing list of VAT rates and thus to leave more freedom to the Member States, on the understanding that there will be a black list of goods and services that cannot be exempted. In future, the European Commission will also allow up to two reduced rates in so far as it benefits the final consumer and is applied to pursue a general interest objective in a consistent manner. However, that possibility is excluded for the goods and services listed on that list, which apparently includes the provision of works of art. In the Commission's view, the proposed adjustment gives Member States greater flexibility, but the question is whether the reduced rate of application to works of art purchased directly from the artist or his right holders is anti-competitive, as is currently noted by the European Commission. The recording of the offer of works of art therefore causes the necessary turmoil in the arts sector, hence the question to consider what is still possible. I have the following questions, Minister. Can you give an update on the discussions on the reform of VAT rates within the Ecofin Council? Which countries are in favour of the European Commission's proposal and which are not? What is Belgium's position on this matter? Can you clarify what Belgium's vision is in the negotiations on the offer of works of art? In your opinion, will our country agree with the European Commission's view or will we argue in favour of maintaining the reduced rate for the supply of works of art?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u41	Ms Smaers, since the publication on 18 January 2018 of the proposal to reform VAT rates, this proposal has only been presented by the European Commission services within the relevant Council technical working group. So far, no Presidency of the European Union has taken the initiative to start the substantive discussion. The Presidency, which will lead the work from 1 January 2019, in particular Romania, has also already indicated that this reform is unfortunately not a priority for him. I can only take note of that. The Commission's proposal aims to fundamentally reform the existing provisions of the VAT Directive on reduced VAT rates. In essence, this would allow Member States, as you have already indicated, to apply a reduced VAT rate to any supply of goods and services, with the exception of those listed in a limited list. In the current list proposal, this is the case, inter alia, for works of art, for which the European Commission services seem to have evidence that the application of a reduced VAT rate in this sector would distort competition and/or market forces. Since 1995, the supply of works of art has, in most cases, already been subject to the standard VAT rate, but by way of derogation, the importation of works of art and the supply of works of art by the artist himself or his successors are thus not still subject to the rate of 6% by a gallery or a professional seller. The decision to exclude certain goods from the application of the reduced VAT rate can only be made on the basis of detailed reasons. I do intend, in future substantive discussions, to bring this to the attention of the European Commission and, if necessary, to provide detailed explanations and, if necessary, to ask for explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for taking this issue into account in the further negotiations with the European Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Klaps has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 27701 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u44	Mr Minister, housing concerns seem to raise a lot of questions in the field of VAT and give rise to practical difficulties. We certainly want to support the concept of care homes; this is also necessary, given the many challenges posed by ageing populations. This form of housing is not only interesting for the elderly, but also for formulas with young families, such as kangaroo living and caring in groups. This would be best supported by tax and financial support. Flanders also promotes care homes, including in the Flemish Codex Spatial Planning and in the integrated housing bonus. In an existing home one creates a subordinate housing unit for dependent or elderly persons, often parents or grandparents. Sometimes these persons are taxed by the borrower, but often they are not. On the basis of the special financing law, the part of the property involved by persons who are not taxablely chargeable to the borrower and therefore are not fiscally part of his family, is expressly regarded as non-resident housing, Article 5/5, Paragraph 4 (2) of the Special Financing Act. In the reform of the housing bonus, Flanders has taken into account the concept of residential care, where the care area and the main housing unit are considered as one physical whole. In addition to these measures, there is very little attention paid to this form of housing, including VAT. Apparently, in applying the 6% VAT in the case of renovation, the VAT administration uses the criterion that, in the case of extensions to the old building, the old building must exceed half of the total area after the execution of the works. In practice, it is sometimes found that local VAT services interpret that criterion differently in care homes, in particular when old buildings are transformed into care homes by, for example, adding part to them. Knowing that the Flemish Codex Spatial Planning requires such an annex to be up to one third of the total volume, it is remarkable that there are differences here between local VAT services, which use a different interpretation, and that care homes are de facto discouraged at the VAT level. So it is a problem that has been taken out of practice. Mr Minister, can you clarify, first of all, what general criteria the VAT administration uses to apply the reduced rate of 6% in the case of renovation in the context of the conversion of an old building into a care home? Is there a circular? If not, does this mean that there is no framework for the administration to assess the concept of "care homes"? Assuming that there are indeed general criteria in the administration, are you aware that local VAT services use different interpretations, which makes the work difficult? If so, will you take action against this with a general circular or legislative initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u45	The conversion of an old house into a care home is subject to the reduced VAT rate of 6% only under certain conditions. I refer to the Royal Decree No. 20 on the applicable VAT rates and more specifically according to the Annex, Table A, headings XXXI and XXXVIII. As soon as the works in question are supported in a relevant manner on the essential elements of the existing structure of the building to which they relate, without distinction as to the designation of that operation............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ However, where the existing house is also expanded, the immovable property can only be considered as a transformation under the conditions described above, provided that the area of the old part is considered to be significant in respect of the new part. Moreover, it is necessary that the new part cannot be used independently of the old part, but complements the old part and thus forms a whole. If this is not the case, these works can be regarded as forming works and are therefore excluded from the application of the reduced rate. To date, the administration has published several comments on these provisions relating to the conversion of private homes. In practice, local VAT services must assess, on a case-by-case basis, whether a conversion from an existing building to a private dwelling, in this case a care home, can be regarded as a conversion according to the VAT regulations. I do not think that a new circular on this draft is necessary, especially since the wide variety of situations which may arise does not mean that it is intended to achieve a case-by-case approach of transformation works which can benefit de facto from the reduced rate, and a factual appreciation and assessment, on a case-by-case basis, is still preferable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Schlitz has deleted 27712, as we have not heard from her. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 27724 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u48	Mr President, Minister, from the point of view of practice, I have reports of taxpayers receiving a payment message from the tax administration, for example, following an audit, which are already called by the same tax administration within two days by saying that the payment has not yet been made. Those payment messages also say "payable within 48 hours" in bold letters. For example, messages sent on 6 November will be followed by calls on 8 November. This raises the question of where the payment is to be made. There are also announcements of prosecution measures. Apparently, this is a standard communication, without a real legal basis, and all the tax administration expects is timely payment. This is, of course, entirely right, but from the point of view of practice, one wonders whether such payment messages, with such short payment deadlines and immediately followed by a call action, are in conformity with the law and whether they do not conflict with the principles of good governance. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Can you clarify what is the legal basis for sending out payment messages marked "to be paid within 48 hours"? Do you think this is a balanced payment period? In practice, it is felt that the actions, where there is also a reference to the possibilities of prosecution, are threatening. Are you aware of that? Do you share this view or are you convinced that these actions are in accordance with the principles of good governance? Is this, in your opinion, a general policy of the tax administration? Can there be differences between local services or is it effectively centrally controlled?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, I will answer your questions on a point-by-point basis. There are no legal provisions for the time of sending the payment message after the debt has lapsed and become due. The maturity dates, on the other hand, are very precise by type of tax. The 48-hour time limit is an indicative period which should help the taxpayer to adjust his payment behaviour positively. Moreover, this is in the interest of the taxpayer itself because it is in this way possible for him to avoid any negligence and further recovery costs. My administration is constantly looking for the most optimal form of communication that encourages tax compliance, taking into account feedback from the taxpayer himself after evaluation. The feedback you provide does not appear to be the one that my administration generally receives from such actions, which are aimed at reminding the citizen or company of an outstanding debt and pointing out to them the possible consequences, including on the current account of negligence concerns. From the point of view stated, this certainly seems to me to be a correct application of the principles of good governance. The answer to your question as to whether this is a general policy line of the administration is affirmative, as the administration can or tries to avoid additional costs and act cost-effectively. This process is effectively directed centrally, in order to ensure equal treatment of all taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u50	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand the logic behind it, but I also understand that it is not nice for some people who are being chased that way and who do want to make a payment, but get the feeling that they are rather behind them. In view of the customer-friendliness of the administration, you might be able to take this with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u51	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne and Mr Gilkinet have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u52	Is your question about the late effects of the citizens' manifestos?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u53	We remain the party of the citizens, Mr President. Minister, on 10 May 2017, I already asked you a question about the citizen's account. At that time, you suggested that you instruct your administration to examine, together with the interested regions, how to set up an interfederal fiscal debt balance sheet in which the tax debts and assets in the tax administrations of the Regions and the federal government can be compensated. On the other hand, by the end of 2017, the programme law also created the legal basis for the centralisation of certain tax and non-fiscal debts into a single financial account Collection and Recovery, the so-called citizen's account, an overview of debts and assets that a citizen, natural person or legal person has vis-à-vis the federal government. The next step is to take an implementing act, so that it can be launched by 1 January 2019 at the latest, as provided for in Article 157 of the aforementioned Programme Act. From a good point of view, I have learned that in the last year there seems to be nothing moving in the further development of this policy and that there is nothing concrete in the pipeline with your administration at the moment either. I hope that source isn't right, but I'm concerned. Given the approaching deadline for the entry into force of the citizen's account, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the status of the introduction of the citizen's account? What is the actual timing? How do you expect to meet the legally established deadline of 1 January 2019? Is everything technically okay in the field of ICT? What is the impact of the citizen's account on the interfederal fiscal balance? What steps have already been taken in the framework of the latter project? Which regions are interested? What meetings and discussions have taken place on this subject? What was the concrete result of these talks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u54	Mr Van Biesen, the Financial Account Collection and Recovery, the so-called citizen account, will enter into force on 1 January 2019. However, my administration has prepared a draft royal decree with a phased entry into force, taking into account the necessary changes in the field of ICT. The principle of the citizen's account will apply from 1 May 2019 for the penalty payments and non-fiscal claims and from 1 December 2019 for tax claims and for the amounts due by a creditor to the DAVO, the Maintenance Claims Service. On 19 March 2018, a first consultation took place between the federal and regional authorities, which discussed in detail the many technical aspects involved. All governments concerned were asked to determine the balance that can be made available to the other entities before the second semester of 2018. The competent entities will resume discussions as soon as those dates are on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament 27824 by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u57	Minister, there is very little time to be able to reach the necessary agreement from Germany, in particular, for the project to tax digital giants. The meeting of European Finance Ministers is scheduled for 4 December. However, last Thursday, European Commissioner Moscovici warned that an agreement between the Member States could not be concluded. The differences between the two major - France, the instigator of the project, and Germany - but also the reluctance or even the already announced rejection of Ireland, Denmark and Sweden could make the project run out. This would be particularly regrettable, given the general interest of such a tax. The Commissioner rightly points out that as long as unanimous voting is required, we will remain blocked on these highly important issues. Minister, what are you going to argue at this December 4th meeting? What difficulties do the Germans have in introducing such taxation? Is Belgium at the heart of the discussions and can it act as a persuasive intermediary between the French and German authorities? In your opinion, is an agreement still possible? The unanimous approval by the Member States makes any decision on taxation very complicated. Do you intend to support the proposal of the European Commissioner to move to qualified majority voting? In your opinion, what specific tax aspects could it address?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u58	Mrs Matz, Belgium has always stressed the importance of fair and equitable tax treatment between traditional businesses or SMEs and major digital players. We are in favour of a broad international solution within the OECD, but we must note that no solution is possible at this level until 2020. That is why Belgium supports the balanced compromise text of the Austrian Presidency to be presented to ECOFIN on 4 December 2018. Belgium continues to support the Austrian Presidency's approach. It is the Austrians who will first determine the strategy and begin bilateral discussions with a view to reaching agreement on their proposal. Belgium is available for a bilateral meeting with France and Germany. As long as the German position remains unchanged, it must be admitted that the chances of reaching an agreement at ECOFIN on 4 December 2018 are low. Like the Germans, other Member States, such as Sweden, Luxembourg and Ireland, also continue to oppose it. We will see what we can do on December 4, 2018. We remain positive and will defend our position. As I have already said in plenary, we must not forget that there is a tax problem here. When you see the profits generated and the taxes paid, it's unacceptable. But the most dangerous is the monopoly aspect of these giants on the Internet. This is economically negative, but it also poses a serious privacy problem, given all the data available to them. To be precise, I repeat, the question of taxes is very problematic. But the monopoly or quasi-monopoly of these companies is just as problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. I also thank you for confirming that Belgium is well in line with a form of taxation. As you said, taxation is very low in relation to turnover and a form of inequity is increasingly felt. Ireland, as I know, is, in a way, Europe's illegal passenger, particularly in terms of corporate tax. As far as Germany is concerned, I do not understand the arguments put forward, especially since this is a matter of a set of countries. It is not as if Germany was being asked to act alone because if that were the case, its economy would necessarily be penalized. But if the decision is taken by a set of European countries on an area, I do not understand the argument that can be put forward to oppose this type of tax. On the other hand, do you think that we can move forward on a qualified majority vote? Indeed, in tax matters, it will not be possible to move forward in the absence of such a vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u60	We'll probably see what happens on Monday night. Anyway, we'll try. It will depend on the circumstances and position of the countries that have not been mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u61	Mr Minister, I will therefore come back to you after Tuesday morning in order to have information on the state of the discussions. If things could move forward, if only a little bit, it would be good already.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1003x.u62	This brings us to the end of the round of questions. I thank the Minister for his presence.
