ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u1	We turn to the oral questions. We have until 18.00 hours. Everyone will have to respect his or her time of speech and response. Can anyone come to the presidency for a few minutes? I have to ask a question in the next committee. Mrs. Van Camp, could you replace me?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u2	Minister, it would appear that some dentists pass on the contact details of patients potentially interested in a dental insurance policy to a mutual benefit for remuneration. This situation seems problematic to me both in the head of the dentist and in the head of the mutual, in particular in terms of professional secrecy. Are you aware of this situation? What is your opinion on the matter? Do you know how many dentists are affected by this situation? Is it quite exceptional that several dentists have passed on the contact details of some of their patients to a mutual benefit? Do you intend to take steps to prevent such a situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u3	Mrs Fonck, I have learned through the press that some health care providers would pass on to a mutual benefit, for remuneration, the contact details of patients potentially interested in dental insurance coverage. However, I do not know how many dentists are affected by this practice, of course, which I regret. As you mentioned yourself, this practice could lead to a violation of medical confidentiality and ethical rules in the care providers concerned. It could also lead to a violation of the provisions of the Law of 8 December 1992 on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data whose compliance is monitored by the Committee on the Protection of Privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u4	If I understand that a dentist provides his clients with information about the existence of dental insurance products, the fact that remuneration is granted for the transmission of data by care providers will undoubtedly prompt them to provide information only with respect to the products specially created for the members of the mutuality in question. The relationship of trust between the patient and his or her dentist could also be tarnished by an impression of the dentist's being unmarried, which is incompatible with the nature of his or her caregiving activities. As for the insurance products specially organized for the members of a mutuality, they are organised through a mutual insurance company, which was created for the mutuality and whose mutuality is an insurance intermediary. Mutuality in this capacity is subject to the application of the legislation and regulations applicable to insurance products, insurance undertakings and insurance intermediaries. This legislation and regulation, which are matters primarily within the competence of my colleague Kris Peeters, do not prohibit the use by insurance undertakings and their insurance intermediaries of business providers or the granting of remuneration or a commission to them. However, in the case of mutualities which also carry out public service tasks and which do not constitute commercial companies, I do not believe that this practice is appropriate, even after obtaining the agreement on this matter from the dentist's patient. A mutuality can in fact itself make its members aware to subscribe to an insurance coverage created especially for them without resorting to methods of stalling. While it is normal for a mutuality to try to increase its workforce, it is necessary to avoid the use of certain practices which accommodate little of the tasks other than those of insurance intermediaries assigned to it by the Act of 6 August 1990 on mutualities and national unions of mutualities. This Act prohibits any advertising that is misleading. I recently asked the Office for the Control of Mutualities and National Unions of Mutualities, before becoming aware of the practice you are referring to, to reflect on an amendment to the said Act with a view, in particular, to prohibiting certain practices which may encourage a change in mutual membership.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u5	Thank you, Minister. I think we're here in commercial approaches, with patient data transmissions and remuneration for these data transmissions. It seems to me, at the very least and in the light of these elements, that you should also call a reminder to order or in any case a reminder of the rules and laws at the level of the different mutuals. We cannot accept in any way that this type of practice persists. However, the legislation is clear in this regard. In my view, a small letter to the mutuals to remind them of the rules and compliance with the rules on this commercial aspect seems to me to be really essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u6	Questions Nos 20335, 20337, 20338, 20339, 20341, 20342, 20343, 20344 and 20345 by Mrs Fonck are transformed into written questions. The same applies to Question No 22696 by Mr Blanchart, attached to Question No 20337 by Mrs Fonck, since he is absent and has not told us anything. Questions No 20382 by Mrs Somers and No 22837 by Mr Blanchart are also transformed into written questions for the same reasons. We should even take them off, but we're good princes. We're waiting to hear from Mrs. Caprasse. Then come my own questions, but I will ask them a little later, as several members are present to ask theirs. Questions No 20477 by Mrs Jadin and No 22852 by Mr Blanchart are transformed into written questions for the reasons given above. Mrs Van Cauter requested the postponement of her question No 20520. We come to Mr Senesael's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u7	Minister, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is a hereditary connective tissue disease responsible for multiple clinical manifestations affecting all organs. The most disabling signs of this syndrome are chronic pain, intense fatigue, locomotor disorders with loss of autonomy, respiratory, sensory and cognitive disorders but also risks of bleeding at the end of sometimes fatal events. It can also lead to sometimes very severe disability situations that are not recognized by the majority of practitioners. Thus, according to the Group of Studies and Research of Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (GERSED), there is a significant diagnostic error of patients, which would sometimes count in decades. Such an error would expose two major risks: on the one hand, the side effects caused by inadequate treatments may be dangerous, and on the other hand, costly, unnecessary or even risky complementary examinations. On the other hand, it appears that patients with this syndrome are most often not recognized by the health insurance and disability agencies. This is all the more damaging because effective therapeutic treatments exist but are ignored by a large part of the medical profession. Minister, can you tell us the prevalence of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome in Belgium? What about the care of these people? Do you share the views of GERSED physicians? What about the training of doctors in this pathology? Would you be inclined to have this syndrome recognized through health insurance and patient care?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u8	Mr. Senesael, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is a generic term combining various disorders of connective tissue that have in common joint hypermobility, skin hyperextensibility and tissue fragility. Signs and symptoms of the syndrome vary considerably in severity depending on the phenotype. The precise prevalence of the syndrome is not known, but according to the Orphanet reference site, the prevalence of classical Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is one case per 30,000 inhabitants, which, at the Belgian level, represents a number of patients slightly less than 400, or 376 cases. The GERSED site reports 500,000 patients in France, one in 130 inhabitants. This would make it a disease that cannot be described as rare. In Belgium, this would amount to just under 90,000 patients if we did the same thing as in France. It is difficult to obtain an exact figure, the treatments being defined according to the needs and not the pathologies, and the benefits being not specifically addressed to this type of patient. To date, there is no specific treatment for the syndrome. Management consists of prescribing painkillers, orthotics, compressive clothing, mild physiotherapy, as well as psychosocial support. Depending on their needs, many patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome are thus recognised as having to benefit from treatment with kinesitherapy for heavy pathologies, which is included on the "E list". Ehlers-Danlos syndrome suffers, like other syndromes, from diagnostic difficulties related to its multiple and atypical manifestations, sometimes for years, evoking other pathologies whose diagnosis must be excluded. You are probably right when you say that there are still people who suffer from disorders that are not recognized as Ehlers-Danlos syndrome because the subject remains vague and that the suffering of the patient is not seen as a consequence of this syndrome.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u9	Madam Chair, I thank the Minister for her response. The difficulties of making a diagnosis to which you refer were also mentioned to me. On the other hand, at the level of the website of the study and research group of this syndrome to which you also referred in your response, depending on the number of cases found and treated according to the different modalities that can go from kine to psychosocial accompaniment, to medical equipment, I wonder whether there is not a "recognition" of this syndrome and this pathology. I would like to know whether you have had or will have more specific contacts with this study group in order to be able to possibly analyse and study the recognition of this syndrome by health insurance and, consequently, the care of patients. I hope that, very modestly, I will have made you aware of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u10	As soon as a doctor thinks that this could be Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, the case is recognized by the health insurance and taken up on the "E list" of kinesitherapy which allows for more physiotherapy sessions. The pathology is recognized but the syndrome is not always perceived during diffuse complaints, lack of knowledge of the disease or lack of diagnosis. The whole problem is the difficulty of making a correct diagnosis. It is true that we depend on the knowledge of the field. One of my former teachers said: "You hear noises in the hallway, and you think it's a horse. It could be a zebra, but you have to recognize the zebra." This means that even if the disease is rare, it must be known to recognize it. Knowledge must be available. When the case is suspect, it is easier to make the diagnosis when there is reliable evidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u11	Madam President, Minister, I wish you all the best for 2018. Minister, one of the objectives of hospital reform is to shorten hospital stay and reduce the number of hospitalizations. These include births with shorter stays at maternity, forms of home hospitalization, intravenous antibiotic therapies, and home chemotherapy. Extra-hospital outpatient surgery does not seem to attract much interest. Currently, confined to ophthalmology and plastic surgery, it could play an important role in reducing the number of hospital stays. There are voices for the creation of extra-hospital pilot centres in Brussels and Wallonia, as well as in Flanders, in specialties such as hand surgery, orthopaedic surgery, ORL or gastroenterology. The advantages presented seem to me to deserve our attention. For patients first, who would be better received in more human-sized structures. They would save time because in the hospital they have to plan for more than half a day and meet with several stakeholders, even for minor interventions. Hospitals offer, of course, other advantages for more complex, heavier interventions, requiring sophisticated equipment or the intervention of multidisciplinary teams. But at every stage of the patient's journey to a hospital, administrative formalities must be carried out, from the often overcrowded admission service, to the exit authorization, to the various care units, the operating room and the wake-up room. Let's not talk about the administrative route of billing, which usually reaches the patient several weeks after his or her operation! Small extra-hospital structures improve the relationship between the patient and the care providers and make substantial savings. Extra-hospital surgery is well developed in Germany and especially in the United States where many small infrastructures of about twenty people offer real surgical services, accredited, of course! Several studies focus on reducing their costs compared to traditional hospitalization. One example is the reconstruction of the previous cross ligament, which would cost 42% less in extra-hospital intervention. Minister, I am interested in this path of savings because it does not harm the interests of patients since all guarantees can be taken through regulations and good practice guides for safety, quality and care. This leads me to ask you the following questions. Are you considering the development of extra-hospital outpatient surgery as part of hospital reform? If not, why not? Have you had an assessment of the economy that such a development could achieve in our country? Have you submitted this possibility to the opinion of representative patient associations? Have you met with surgeons who advocate such an evolution and are aware of their arguments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u12	Mrs Caprasse, thank you for your good wishes, which I sincerely wish each other. You assume that saving on a day of hospitalization automatically allows the public authorities to save on the same amount. That's not the case. Let me remind you of some elements related to funding! Each hospital receives, on the basis of a wide range of parameters, an annual amount for the operation of the whole hospital. This is called the budget of financial resources (BMF). In particular, the BMF is used to pay for the care and logistical processes associated with the stay. This BMF per hospital also covers, in many cases, operating room duty stations, emergency duty stations and other services, etc. These are the functions that citizens need, such as forecasting sufficient capacity in an emergency, but this type of activity can only lead to losses. Of course, BMF is also used to pay for the functions to which you refer, such as the organization of minor and planable surgical procedures. In order to grant this BMF to a hospital, the total amount of the BMF is divided by the number of days of hospitalization. The cost of the day of hospitalisation is then obtained, which is charged to each patient admitted to hospital, with no fees. The same amount is charged per day to all patients in the hospital in question, regardless of discipline, service, with or without passing through some emergency services such as the operating room, intensive care, wake-up room, etc. If we leave all these services at a loss, which mainly generate costs and almost no income, in the hospital itself, we have no macroeconomic gain. This does not, therefore, reduce the total cost of our health care. For the rest, I am not opposed to small private clinics that work and offer the same quality guarantees. As such, their work cannot lead to an additional cost to the patient. This is often the case. This is why the reorganisation of the hospital landscape needs to be considered. Hospitals are asked to work in networks by outsourcing small or large operations. Of course, it will not be the same movement. There will be more hospitals without the pooling of expertise. This runs counter to our reform of the hospital, which calls for an organisation at the local and regional level and for certain expertise at the supra-regional level. What are we gonna do? I'm not convinced by the American system. Every hospital landscape is different. We have based ourselves on the reform that took place in Denmark. We're going to visit Sweden. It will be interesting to make a difference. America is a bad example, because the quality of care is not the same as in our home.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u13	I hear your explanations, but I didn't really get an answer. There is still a way to do something, apart from what already exists, to avoid, precisely, this overload in hospitals. It can ease without having financial consequences for hospitals. It is possible to reduce certain medical procedures and make things easier for doctors and patients alike. It is true that small private clinics exist and are organized by very serious doctors. Perhaps it would be interesting to share their existence and to meet them. There's definitely something to do. I will come back to these issues later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u14	Minister, animal health professionals are concerned about certain practices in grooming salons. Currently, the toiletting profession is not regulated. Access to it shall be free and shall not be subject to any examination of fitness. However, the handling of animals is not without risk, both for animals and for humans. There are many accounts of problematic practices. Most of the time, they are due to a lack of knowledge on the part of professionals. In fact, they may not be able to identify a disease transmissible to humans, not know the dermatological reactions of animals or harm them through the misuse of immobilized straps. Some grooming salons may also act knowingly in contravention of laws and regulations. Washers use substances that only veterinary doctors are in principle entitled to administer, in particular to sleep the animal. Some will try to treat pathologies themselves, with the risk of aggravating the situation, and others will even go so far as to supply on the other side of the French border with medicines that are on over-the-counter there but subject to prescription here. I know some. These practices are obviously not the rule, and many toiletters know the framework of their profession. They know when it is necessary to return the animal to a veterinary doctor. Therefore, Madam Minister, let me ask you the following questions. Has your administration ever found any drifts or bad practices in grooming parlors? Do you consider that the current regulations are sufficient to ensure practices consistent with human and animal health requirements? Do you consider it necessary to take action to address these potential risks? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u15	Mr Senesael, this is indeed an important issue in terms of animal condition. However, I was surprised to receive these questions because the conditions of operation of grooming salons are regulated not by my services but by those of the Minister of Economy and Consumers. It is therefore my colleague Kris Peeters who is responsible for the application of the Code of Economic Law, Book IX, on the safety of products and services. In this sense, the situation is, among other things, comparable to that of solariums and solar benches. In addition, all dogs and cats must be identified in accordance with regional regulations. My powers are limited to preventing and combating any illegal practice of veterinary art. As far as grooming salons are concerned, my services have informed me that, so far, no further action has been warranted. We asked them if there were any problems. However, our competence in this area is very limited because everything is regulated by the Regions. However, if, during grooming, practices that fall within the scope of veterinary art are practiced, this concerns us. If a citizen considers a situation to be abnormal with respect to his or her pet, he or she must file a complaint or report it. That's not the purpose of grooming.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u16	Minister, thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u17	Question No 20617 by Mrs Hufkens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u18	Minister, I have spoken on this issue on numerous occasions. I have long defended the setting up of a pictogram on the box to alert pregnant women who are taking teratogenic drugs. Sanofi decided to place a pictogram for only one of its valproic acid-containing medicines. In Belgium, there is only one medicine containing valproic acid that has a warning pictogram for pregnant women. Other medicines from the same pharmaceutical firm and medicines – generic or other – from other pharmaceutical companies do not contain a pictogram. This therefore gives a false sense of safety, with information available for the only medicine that contains a pictogram. So I am calling again for the passage of the bill that I introduced to force the placement of a visual hanger. I found that the AFMPS recently published a flashnews about the demonstration by the University of Antwerp of the totally insufficient knowledge of educational material. Although the AFMPS recalls the devices, it is an additional element that demonstrates that it is really important to have a visual grip that allows women taking valproate to adopt the right reflex in the event of pregnancy. This will help to avoid dramatic consequences for children. Madam Minister, I therefore plead again and again that this type of hook should be prescribed in order to send pregnant patients who are taking a teratogenic medicine back to doctors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u19	Mrs Fonck, all holders of marketing authorisations for medicinal products based on Valproate have received an application from the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (AFMPS) for a notification to insert the same pictogram as Sanofi. All the firms concerned have carried out themselves. The latest procedures have just been closed by the Agency. This implies that the undertakings concerned will be able, from the date of approval of their own procedure, to release lots in accordance with the change requested – i.e. the imposition of the pictogram on the box. Six months after that date, no lot may be released in the absence of this image on each package. In practice, I am told that this means that after March 28th, no lot of Valproate products will circulate without a pictogram. As I mentioned earlier, in the EPSCO Council (Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs), I have asked my European counterparts to cooperate in the labelling of Valproate-based medicines and, more generally, all those that are potentially teratogenic. For the moment, only the United Kingdom has supported us. This item had been added to the EPSCO agenda. The European Commissioner responsible for these matters thanked us and assured us that he would deal with the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u20	Minister, more or less two years ago, I was told that I was telling anything. Then I was told that the studies were opposed to such a measure. At last, I note that it is acknowledged that it is indispensable. Therefore, I do not regret having fought this fight. However, some problems remain. First, if a generic drug is created or another container of Valproate comes from a foreign country, they are not required to post the pictogram in question on the carton. I'm sorry. Moreover, since Valproate is never just one teratogenic drug among others, the question remains full and complete for all others. Therefore, I continue, persist and sign to advocate for progress on these bills and to work in a coherent manner. New tragedies in children should be avoided by placing this warning message on boxes containing teratogenic medicines.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u21	The Chair: Question No. 20748 by Mr. Blanchart was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u22	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to a survey by the Association des médecins urgentistes de Belgique and the University of Ghent conducted at the end of 2015, one in two emergency doctors are seriously considering changing their profession and 16% of them intend to do so within six years. However, the function is already in short supply. Administrative overload, low recognition for work and an imbalance between private and professional life are the most frequently cited causes. According to the results of the survey, emergency physicians provide 35% of their night hours and 25% on weekends. In some hospitals, the proportion increases to more than one shift in two in these particular hours. To address this issue, you have indicated floor to a series of measures to relieve emergency physicians. The measures should push patients to redirect to general practitioners rather than emergency services and a large trauma centre will be established to deal with the most serious cases. Minister, could you give us some details of the measures you are considering to alleviate the emergency services of hospitals? In particular, you say that you want general medical wards to cover the entire territory within four years. How are you going to achieve this? What will be the most isolated areas? Again, I would like to remind you that there is a shortage of doctors and that this shortage also concerns general practitioners. Has this been taken into account in the proposed reform plan? In addition to this increase in the number of guard stations, you anticipate a decrease in the number of emergency services. Could you tell us how this reform will be carried out and how many services should disappear in the coming months and years? In these circumstances, will the emergency services be really relieved in their daily work? Finally, could you tell us where you are as part of the deployment of the 1733 triage telephone system and what progress is expected in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u23	Madam Secretary, most of it has already been said here. We regularly hear reports that emergency doctors are under a lot of pressure. That's why they often pull the alarm bell. This is often due to the additional administrative burden and so on. You said earlier that you have turned around, with as an important measure a better alignment between the different services to provide non-planable care. It is about cooperation between emergency services, sentries and so on. Another important measure is the reform of the emergency services, with the number being reduced and supported by large trauma centres. So there's definitely a plan. I would have liked to have seen a state of play on some of these measures. In addition to the system of sentries, there is also the 1733 triage system, which we have talked about here a few times. However, I believe that the roll-out of this system is still difficult. I would have liked to have had an update on this. As regards the audit of the sentries, a first proposal was made in July. Watch stations Flanders vzw formulated a number of criticisms and 22 recommendations, such as a enforceable and effective triage, uniformity in the time schedules, the location and financing of sentries, the extent of the coverage by a guard post and a guard post network. In the meantime, some of these things are a little further, because my question dates back a few months ago. Can you clarify again which recommendations you are holding back and which are not? What do you want to do to reduce the administrative burden?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u24	In the past, this kind of problem has always been approached from a point of view, namely what should the general practitioner, the emergency doctor, the hospital and the ambulance do. Solutions were sought that were sometimes good for one, but not for the other. In any case, the solutions were not always in the interests of the citizen in need who sought help. At the beginning of this legislature, I decided to approach the whole chain of non-planable care as a system. Some of them are the watch stations that are available. The "Wachtposten" audit available at the RIZIV should therefore be considered within this broader framework and not merely with a look at the sentries. To get an even better view on the underlying influence of the different processes within this system, I also asked the Knowledge Centre to perform a cluster analysis. The result of this study will be the start of a comprehensive debate on non-planable care. In this debate, therefore, my starting point is not quantity but quality and efficiency, in a consolidated system made up of partners with the centre, with citizens in need of care. The red thread of this plan is the patient, who expects our system to respond to his or her generally unpredictable and sudden demand for care. My strategic cell formally validated the custody audit on August 21, 2017. On December 21, 2017, my proposals for a new policy for the funding of child care posts, based in particular on the results of the audit, were presented to the Task Force on Non-Planable Care, in which hospitals, emergency services, emergency physicians, general practitioners and general medical duty stations are represented. We take into account the remarks made at that time, and the conditions for the effective transposition of the strategic proposals are being prepared. To this end, the context is integrated, in order to optimize the various instruments useful for the organization of non-planable care, i.e. the posts, emergency services and the uniform call number of 1733, which plays a central role. With regard to sorting in 1733, the current schedule foresees that the alert terminal should be available for guard stations from the first half of 2018. We shall therefore begin the roll-out. There are pilot projects already in progress. We will begin by April, May, with the further roll-out throughout the country of No. 1733 for the triage. The abovementioned inequality in the wages of specialists and the concentration of income among certain groups have also been placed on the agenda of the National Committee on Medical and Medical Funds. On 2 October 2017, the Committee presented the research material that was applied from the University of Ghent and the ULB. We are also working on a draft law in which we want to implement the coverage of a guard post and a guard post network. That takes time, but it is the only way to obtain lasting solutions for a longer duration or once and for all. As far as the administrative burden is concerned, Mrs Van Peel, I have already given instructions to my administrations to review the registrations that are currently in force in the field of non-planable care, the UREG, the MUGREG, the PITREG and the AMBUREG, and to reduce them to what they really should be, in view of the only-once principle and the real policy analysis and preparation. In addition, an initial simplification has already been introduced for the ongoing UREG registrations, the emergency registrations, pending a more thorough review. The emergency doctors were informed of this by means of a letter to the hospitals and through the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance. So it is progressing, but it is also for the first time that there really is a plan for non-planable care for the whole country to be rolled out, starting from the fact that there are areas where there are too few ambulances, but also areas where there are too many. There will have to be a recast. At the same time, administrative simplification will also have to be introduced, which is also necessary. It is about interventions that are never simple and that involve huge registration. This gives these people an additional stress. But the rollout's coming up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u25	I thank the minister for her reply, pointing out that, although she had intentions at the beginning of the legislature, she has remained attentive to this problem, which concerns us: hospital staff and all citizens must have access to these front-line branches. Minister, you followed the file with an analysis of the KCE. It was submitted, as you mentioned, to the various interlocutors in December. A plan is currently in its implementation phase. Madam President, I would have liked it to be noted somewhere to provide for the follow-up of the issue on the agenda so that the content of the plan could be read in detail once it has been drawn up. My concern is rural areas, and my fear is that by reorganizing at some point and in the context of reform of hospital institutions, citizens will find themselves in less populated areas facing difficulties of access to health care. I would like us to be informed in due course of this plan and its content so that we can find balanced answers so that every citizen of this country can have access to these emergency and care facilities as soon as possible. I think that is also your concern and I do not question it, I share it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It is indeed not an easy reform. It is good that things are being rolled out and we will continue to evaluate as soon as the pilot projects get a little more form.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u27	We will have an exchange with the Minister when the elements are being finalized. Question No 20815 by Mr Blanchart is postponed. We come to Question No 20836 from Mrs Dedry to the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health on "the DPNI test".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u28	Madam President, Minister, as I know, I have already received an answer to this question. This question was accidentally left between the questions to be asked. I just verified that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u29	That question should therefore be removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u30	I could ask the question again, but I won't. Madam President, may I ask my question No. Substitute 21006?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u31	Do the members of the committee agree that Question No 20836 by Mrs Dedry should be replaced by Question No 21006?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u32	Madam Secretary, in September, Test-Achats warned about lip balm with harmful substances. In no less than 15 of the 21 embalms they tested, they found things that don't belong in them. Among other things, it was about mineral oils. In products intended for the skin, this does not harm. However, these oils are a problem when they can be swallowed. The substances found are called MOSH and MOAH, and would be carcinogenic because they accumulate in lymph nodes, liver and spleen. These substances are apparently not on the packaging or on the ingredients list. In the absence of safety limits, there are recommendations from, inter alia, EFSA that were the benchmark for testing the balsams. Test Purchasing found that 15 of the 21 selected products contain too high levels. I am not going to list the brands but it is the brands that we all know and all have in our purse and also use regularly. I have the following questions. Will you take measures to remedy this problem? If so, which one? Are you in favour of stricter regulation? If so, will you try to obtain this in Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u33	Mrs Dedry, mineral oils are compounds of different ingredients that can be legally used in lip products. Ingredients containing these oils, for example, are paraffin, some vaselines and microcrystalline wax. They shall be indicated on the label of the cosmetic products. The mineral oil saturated hydrocarbons are among those mineral oils and their composition varies considerably depending on the quality of the oils. In lip products, high quality mineral oils are selected to avoid any health risk. After all, it is always possible that some of what is smeared on the lips is eaten. The mineral oil aromatic hydrocarbons form another type of complex substances that are not so well known. Its content in cosmetic products should be as low as possible. The safety of each cosmetic product shall be evaluated before it is placed on the market on the basis of the use of the product and the profile of each of the ingredients. Only products the safety of which was attested by a doctor, pharmacist, toxicologist or responsible person with similar qualification may be placed on the market. I asked the FPS Health Inspectorate to check the quality of ingredients used in the said lip balm, in cooperation with the market surveillance services of the other Member States of the European Union. Unless this study proves otherwise, I do not see any need to propose additional measures at European level at this stage. We'll definitely wait for the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for your enlightening answer. We shall then hear something about the course of events. That we wait for the investigation, I can live with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u35	Question No 20842 by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u36	Madam President, Minister, this question is now somewhat outdated. In fact, I received an answer from you last week to a written question on the subject. Nevertheless, I would like to go into more detail about the answer to that question. The activity report is now online, rather late, very late, but it is there. However, the report still shows that, despite the fact that a step has been taken within the Medical Accidents Fund, the delay has not yet been overtaken. You also did not want to give a general deadline for the average time between the application and closing a file. However, it would not be uninteresting to look at this deadline for the more than 900 files that have been closed. I know steps have been taken to work in a different way. There's also a new master plan. For example, the dossiers with a certain degree of severity for which the file-handlers are not qualified want to move faster, which is a good idea. There was far too much time spent on such files. In any case, I remain in favour of the Fund with a double feeling. Everyone still stands behind the intention of the Fund. It was a very good thing that people with medical accidents could be helped much better and much faster. In practice, however, it remains a difficult story. I therefore wonder whether we should not even carry out a thorough assessment of this. Perhaps you'd like to give the master plan some time. However, I do not know whether the plan will solve all the problems. After all, I understand from internal sources that in many areas it is still uneven, both in terms of ICT and in terms of cooperation with external experts and in terms of procedures to be followed. So I'd like to have your opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u37	Minister, at the end of October, the ASBL Medical Errors was demonstrating in Brussels to highlight this problem of medical errors. According to his estimate, 20,000 mistakes are made every year in our home, resulting in the death of 2,000 people. Minister, have you heard of these estimates? If so, what do you think? We know that there is no central register in our country for the exact number of such errors. However, the INAMI Medical Accidents Fund is responsible for determining whether victims of such errors filing a file are entitled to compensation. Minister, can you tell us how many cases have been brought into our country in recent years and how many have been found admissible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u38	Madam President, since the problem is very serious and has been on the rise for a long time, I would have asked for a very detailed answer. I will give part of it to frame it somewhat, but the answer is much more extensive. I will therefore deliver it to you for the report. The way in which this delay could be eliminated has already been addressed several times. The deadline for processing a dossier at the Fund is very different and depends on the type of file. An average figure would not give a representative and correct picture. The Fund now divides the examination of the dossiers into three stages. A first stage is an administrative check based on Article 12 of the law. In a second phase, the facts, damage, liability and the prevention of a possible medical accident shall be examined without liability. The third stage is when the file comes to the stage of compensation. Then it is both about calculating a proposal and about negotiating and paying compensation. The files that can be closed in the first phase take, in principle, a few weeks, and this does not cause any major problems. Then we come to the second phase. As you know, the Fund is lagging behind. This is due to the waiting time before a file can leave in expertise and due to the duration of the expertise. In most cases, the length of time provided for in the law for the processing of a file is insufficient to enable the file to be completed with respect for the rights of all concerned. Files that are in the third stage can also drag on for a very long time when a fee in interest is chosen. A determining factor for the speed of handling a dossier is the willingness of the care provider to deliver the requested documents to the Fund. Some cases are therefore significantly delayed. Another factor is the availability of a physician for the analysis of the file, the description of the assignment and the bundling of the documents. In addition, there are not always enough external experts available. It happens that files are ready in expertise, but cannot be handled because no external expert is available or willing to record the file. The files are handled according to the principle first in, first out. Currently, the files submitted in 2014 are sent in expertise. The Fund insists that external experts should submit their final report within six months, but practice teaches us that there are often difficulties in establishing the dates for the sessions, especially in the case of contradictory expertise. Holiday periods are also an important source of delays. In order to minimise the delay, the Fund states that an expertise can continue when the victim and the care provider concerned may be present. The Fund is asking for strict action in the event of a delay due to the unavailability of counselors and counselors. In the case of problems, contradiction is ensured on the basis of the possibility of comments to the provisional report. Another source of delay is also a possible extension of the expertise to even more or other care providers and additional information to be requested and so on. The time between depositing an expert's final report and sending an opinion may vary from a few weeks to several months. In any case, the expert report shall be analysed by an internal physician and a lawyer of the Fund. On the basis of this analysis, a discussion takes place in the medical-legal consultation, which takes place weekly. In some cases additional expertise is needed after the discussion, sometimes an additional analysis of the lawyers or doctors of the Fund. In 2014, only 36 opinions were issued due to a variety of circumstances at the time, in 2015 272 opinions were issued, in 2016 396 opinions. On 30 September 2017, more than 1 600 files were completed, representing 39% of the files submitted. The Damo program is in production with 260 files on 16 December and with all 3 914 files on 3 April 2017. The old programme is only available for consultation. On the Board of Directors of 28 April 2016, there were 104 known issues, including 37 bugs in the system and 67 new needs. At that point, only 37 were solved. Despite all the work done, there are still many problems. The main concerns at present remain the performance and ease of use. Here, optimizations and adjustments are carried out continuously. There are also problems with sending large documents and visualizing digital signatures. For this purpose, contact was made with the supplier of the application used to solve the problems. A legal alternative to the digital signature was provided. In order to make the medical records available digitally and inventorily, requested from healthcare providers and institutions, in order to maximise the burden on fund doctors of repetitive work such as the repeated re-inventory, the following actions were taken. The inventory, split up and electronically make available the scanned documents and the documents available on electronic media so that doctors can focus on the expertise work. This also attracted employees who could do this task in the place of the doctors. Receive the medical records electronically and inventorily. Before that, contact was made with the Order of Doctors. We are in the final phase of the definition of a KMER standard. Care providers and healthcare institutions will be asked to send the medical records properly inventoried and to automatically charge them in the file. Another point is the opening of the file by external experts, so that they no longer have to get the information they need on paper. Direct consultation of the information in the medical records of the hospitals. The Damo computer program integrates with the transversal components for receiving, processing and sending correspondence, consumption management and the secure document storage safe. Data fully migrated from the old program will be able to solve any quality problems. Manual coding is avoided as much as possible. However, it remains a survey dossier in which doctors, lawyers and file managers are introduced into the file. The following developments may be expected shortly: the financial flow with payout of patients or stakeholders; a one-off sum or an interest rate; and the experts; integration of the cost of damages through an external application of Kluwer; integration of global contact management with an automatic integration with state registry number via the crossroads bank of Social Affairs; dispute management; direct access of experts in the file; provision of medical images on a PACS system; communication with all stakeholders via digital channels such as eBox and eHealthBox; and the possible use of ICDC-10 instead of the current classification as it is also used in other bodies. There's more, Madam President. I will deliver the whole answer to your services electronically, because we have also replied to Mr Flahaux's late questions. It was about responsibility, among other things. Mr. Flahaux's questions related not only to damage but also to liability for errors. I will add this relevant document. We have to keep working. This fund was very important to the patient. That was an important matter. However, the method was wrong from the start and has remained wrong. It's a huge task to straighten things out now. It is also widely used, also by people with very small problems. There is, for example, a plethora of complaints about dental treatments, i.e. of people who are not satisfied with a tooth or a stomatological treatment. It's often about aesthetic matters. In short, it's a cuddle. The people of the Fund have already invested a great deal of energy in this, but I do not think they are due to the bulk of the problems. They must therefore continue to work on it. The resources remained what they were. There are 44.5 full-time equivalents. There are still vacant places for two doctors and two lawyers. You also understand that this is not as attractive as a new workshop, knowing that there is still a great deal to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u39	Madam Minister, this answer is broadly in line with your written reply. Of course, it's still a pity. The ultimate aim was to avoid all those expensive legal steps and to ensure that people could get justice faster. In reality, however, there are few benefits to the Fund as it works today. I repeat, important steps have been taken. Determining the degree of seriousness is certainly a good thing. However, I have a feeling that we will not be able to do so. I still wonder whether we should not intervene more thoroughly and look at what we want with this Fund from scratch. The ICT problems are starting to take on a huge order of magnitude. I have also asked a written question on the figures. This cost more than EUR 2 million, so much more than initially budgeted. If this does not work at all, I wonder whether the Fund should not take steps. Surely promises have been made about the package that should have been delivered. That is what a serious budget has been allocated for, and that is what concerns me. There is no doubt that this is still being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u40	I would like to thank the minister for this detailed answer. It is true that we are in a sensitive and topical area. As in many other areas, people now tend to react to the quarter turn, complain for everything and sometimes for less important things. A balance must therefore be struck. There must, of course, be justice, because medical errors are not acceptable. But there is also a need for health practitioners to be able to act without constantly feeling the cutoff of justice above their heads. It is therefore an extremely difficult balance to achieve, minister. I thank you, in any case, for your extremely helpful answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u41	Madam Minister, I have already asked this question in plenary. You were abroad at the time and you responded, but I would like to continue with your reply. You know the discussion, you also know how the discussion got back into the press, namely through a report stating that the reimbursement of circumcisions for non-medical reasons, but religious or private reasons, is indigestible. That was a report from the Advisory Committee on Bioethics. They even went further in the analysis. Thus one also talked about the usefulness of circumcisions in general. I would particularly like to continue with that refund. No distinction is made today between medically necessary or not. In the plenary session of 21 September, your cabinet gave as one of the reasons why a doctor should not ask for religious beliefs. I thought that was a very strange answer. Of course a doctor may not, but it is a bit the world upside down, because he doesn't have to. All he has to do is determine whether or not surgery is medically necessary. If he finds that this is the case, the intervention can indeed be done at the expense of the taxpayer. However, if the intervention is not medically necessary and simply a private decision, the doctor certainly does not have to ask me whether or not that private decision is religious in nature, but that alone is a sufficient basis to say that the reimbursement should not be made at the expense of society. Hence my question again in committee. The subject was discussed at a time when you were abroad. I found the answer your cabinet had prepared a little strange at the time. So I wonder what exactly your opinion is on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u42	Mrs Van Peel, the "circumcision" benefits existing in the nomenclature only indicate that they are circumcisions. It is up to the individual physician to decide whether or not to perform the procedure and then to certify the performance of the nomenclature. In doing so, the doctor must comply with Article 73 (1) of the GVU Act: "The doctor and dental judgements in conscience and in full freedom about the care to be provided to patients. They will ensure that they provide dedicated and competent medical care in the interests of the patient, respecting the rights of the patient and taking into account the global resources made available by the community. They shall refrain from prescribing, implementing or having carried out redundant or unnecessarily expensive benefits in kind under compulsory medical care and benefits." For the rest, as Mr Bacquelaine has told you, doctors are not supposed to register the religious beliefs of babies or their parents. Whether we should make a clearer distinction according to the indication and whether there should be any impact on reimbursement are questions for which we have to consider a number of implications. For example, we must bear in mind that the cessation of reimbursement could lead to an illegal parallel circuit in which the safety of the children concerned is no longer guaranteed. This would therefore lead to an illegal circuit to carry out circumcisions, not always in hygienic conditions and with the necessary complications, both psychologically and physically. So that is a trade-off that we have to make. In any case, the intention debate that took place last year made it clear that this is an issue which deserves a broad public debate. I also said that it was up to the Chamber to organise that debate. There are arguments pro and contra. We cannot know how many of these children were circumcised for religious reasons, how many for physical reasons and how many for a combination of the two. After all, one can also have a baby who indeed has fimosis and should therefore be circumcised. In the Jewish community the child is circumcised on a certain day after birth, I think on the eighth day after birth. So these are very small pebbles that are circumcised. Well, in that case, I'm worried about those babies who don't have a choice. If that were to happen in a parallel circuit, I would ask myself about the health of these children. This is a debate to be held. Is it an ethical matter, which one feels should not be paid back when it comes to religious reasons? When it comes to reducing expenditure alone, we have no idea what percentage it would be. A lot of kids do have problems with it. In addition, there are degrees of circumcision and different techniques. I myself, as a doctor, had to refer a lot of pee-pee for medical reasons. It is important, however, that circumcision is done hygienically and with knowledge of the facts. Usually it's kids'urologists who do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u43	Madam Minister, that is the same answer as in plenary, and I do not quite understand how you came to do that. I do not want a ban on circumcision for religious reasons, because that is indeed a very different discussion. Moreover, the ethics board recommends that we have that debate, but I am still a little away from that, because that is not so easy. I agree with you that it would be possible to enter an illegal circuit. What I'm asking here has nothing to do with not going to the same doctor when it happens for religious reasons. The circumcision in a baby can happen perfectly with the same urologist. However, I believe that our society, as far as health care is concerned, should not pay for this for religious or private reasons, that is so simple. I do not think there will be any ethical discussion. That line can be drawn anyway. I also consider the numbers to be of little relevance, since it is the principle that we do not spend on religion in health care. I am surprised, Madam Secretary, that you are defending another statement. The argument that your cabinet has prepared concerns two points. Firstly, the danger of illegality. That is already missing, because it will occur in the event of a ban, but not when you have to pay for it yourself. That is what we have to do in an illegal circuit, so this is not an argument. The second argument was that a doctor should not ask for religious grounds. He shouldn't. He just needs to see if it's medically possible. I am thus sticking to the pure assertion that reimbursement of health care does not serve to finance religion or private decisions. We do not do that in many other cases either. In my opinion, this has never been considered: I think this is the logic itself. You often convince me with your answers, but not this time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u44	I look at health and I mean physical and mental health. After all, being mutilated at a young age can impose psychological burdens on children and will also generate costs. You have the right to say that it is not a responsible social cost, but as Minister of Health, this is a small investment in general physical and mental health in order to achieve a large profit. That is where we differ.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u45	That's right. After all, I am not convinced at all that it will go to an illegal circuit if it is not banned. Why would anyone go to an illegal circuit? That's where you have to pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u46	We'll close. We understood the different positions. For the rest of the work, I will go back to point 15 to ask my question No 20439 on the cadastre. I will turn my question No 20441 on alcoholism into a written question. We may be able to ask one or two additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u47	Minister, I sent you a written question in June 2015 to get the number of physicians by age category and by full-time sex so as to have a territorial view of the situation with respect to general practitioners. A year later, I still did not get an answer. I interviewed you orally. You replied, I sum up, that it was not possible to give these figures in common, especially for privacy reasons. On the other hand, it was possible to have them by borough of the doctor's home to obtain an updated cadastre of general practitioners. As in 2016, I asked this question and had obtained a common answer per common, so I asked the Privacy Commission what their arguments were to justify the impossibility of obtaining this information. The Privacy Commission informed me in April of this year that there was no contraindication to give access to these common data by municipality. The Commission had sent you a letter asking you about your arguments and suggesting ways of acting or responding. There is a definition of the conditions for the transmission of these data through the Act of 15 January 1990 on the Social Security Bank-Carrefour. Minister, I would like to come back to you to find out the number of communes in detail. Can you now communicate the number of general practitioners with more than 500 benefits per common year per commune, the distribution of men and women, according to age groups and according to full-time equivalents? I would also like to know why no action has been taken on the request made to you in writing by the Privacy Commission following my inquiry and what arguments do you object to their analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u48	Mrs Gerkens, we can see some strangeness in this problem. There is a scorn in your way of imagining how the request made to the Carrefour Bank Privacy Commission and the way that this is happening in reality fits into reality. The request for data from the Privacy Commission is part of a concerted approach between the applicant (the Planning Commission) and the representative of Carrefour Bank. The common objective is not to allow the identification of individuals through numerical analyses. Small cells should therefore be avoided. At the municipal level, the analysis of the activity of a small number of general practitioners with information on age, gender and nationality makes it possible to identify everyone. To this end, information related to the municipality of belonging is not requested and the level of accuracy of the domicile is limited to the borough. Without data on the municipality of residence in the PlanCAD Physician from 2004 to 2012, it is quite correct that the planning cell cannot provide the information you are asking for. I draw your attention to two points and it is in this place that it becomes strange. When we asked the services whether they had received the Privacy Commission's question or offer of service on this issue, they replied that they had not received any question or offer of service from the Commission. In addition, these are data on the place of residence and not the place of activity for INAMI benefits under independent status, the most common status among physicians. My services are currently investing in improving the collection of data from the place of exercise from the main data sources, in particular through the registration of the place of practice at INAMI. The discussion has not changed, you are asking for information that is not in the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u49	I did not look for where the documents were or did not arrive. I can't remember if I attached the letter I received from the Privacy Commission, but I'll check it out. I may be able to send it to you, but it is not the mail that she sent you. If I may insist, it is because the circles of doctors who organize themselves by group of communes find it difficult to gather certain data. I realize that when the Walloon Region establishes a register of general practitioners and their distribution in the territory, it uses data and information banks different from those of the Planning Commission. If we want a complete management and regulation of the supply of doctors and thus be able to analyse the situation with finesse, all must use the same data in order not to compare situations erroneously. On the other hand, it is interesting that the data are validated through centralisation of information. The way I formulated my question to get the number of doctors is consistent with the one I used a decade ago when I was forced to formulate my question in this way to meet privacy requirements. The first time I asked my question in more detail. She had not been accepted. I'm puzzled by this difficulty. I am surprised that there is not a clear will to collect the data in this way. It's not secret data. I can, of course, take the phone book and do, common by commune, the doctor's statement. I'll miss the data on their age. Are they young doctors or older doctors? Do they work full-time or not? These data are important for a vision of the accessibility of community-based care. I don't have the meaningful elements. So I still haven't got an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u50	I must also impose the Rules of Procedure on speaking time. The minister is leaving us at 6.00 p.m. and we still have ten minutes. I would like to point out that the joint questions 20819 by Mrs Thoron and 20441 by myself are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u51	Madam President, I do not really think that these questions should be merged. I would like to turn the first part of this combined question into a written question. It's easier. It's really two different questions. My second question concerns the central registration for medically assisted reproduction. In your reply to my previous question concerning the central registration system provided for in the law on medically assisted reproduction, you indicated that there was consultation between the competent administration, the FAGG and the representatives of the College of Reproductive Medicine of the Public Health Office. Today, there is still no control over the number of donations made by the same donor and their use. The same donor can go to different centres. In that consultation it was considered whether the register could be linked to BELRAP. In addition, the thought trail was also examined to make the registration a condition for the use of the nomenclature. What is the current state of this consultation? What progress has been made in the meantime? Is that central registration coming up now? Is there any clarity about the idea of linking registration to the nomenclature as a condition in order to enforce it? To what extent would it be possible to include data prior to the 2007 Act in this system, while maintaining anonymity and on a voluntary basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u52	The FAGG will be asked to provide for the centralised registration of medically assisted reproduction in the future e-BELRAP in collaboration with the RIZIV and the Public Health Office. This is developed in the Health Data. The compulsory registration of IVF in BELRAP is provided for in the Royal Decree of 15 February 1999 laying down the standards to be met by the health care programmes for reproductive medicine in order to be recognised. Through the modification of the nomenclature, the mandatory registration in BELRAP with the indication for intrauterine insemination is now also a criterion for the reimbursement of that intrauterine insemination. This proposal must of course also be submitted to the Privacy Commission. Data for 2007 could theoretically be included if the maximum of six families has not yet been reached and if they are also available in the medically assisted reproduction centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u53	The last thing you say is, in itself, a poignant answer. It's reality, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u54	There are good ones and there are bad ones. I know that, too. There are places where everything is kept meticulously, but there are also...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u55	Yeah, I know. We are talking about legislation that is quite old. Central registration has been requested for a long time. It is also about important data for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u56	The instrument before that wasn't there before, but now it was because of the new...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u57	I'm not criticizing you. I just think it is very distressing that you have to answer that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u58	I don't think that's normal either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u59	No, that's not normal either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u60	Progress is now being made, but we believe that some centres have not kept up to date, which makes it difficult to register it retroactively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u61	I can only say that this is very poignant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u62	So we're going to stop our work here. Our next meeting will take place on 24 January.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u63	I would still like to say that when the members did not warn, that there is no cause of illness or something else, you are removing the questions because there is a risk of perverse effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-10-54-commissie-ic794x.u64	Normally, I remove the questions and for those members who have not reported anything today, few questions have been turned into written questions. Two in fact. Have a good night.
