ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u1	Question No 23583 by Mrs Smaers was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u2	The Constitutional Court ruled that potpourriwet II was unconstitutional. With the destruction of the law, the lifting of the penalty for murderers also disappears up to 30 years in prison. The problem is that there are already a number of suspects on trial, such as Dr. André Gyselbrecht, who is being tried for the castle murder on Stijn Saelens. Others have appealed against their conviction at first instance. They can no longer be sent to the court of assists. The prosecutors who examined the arrest have now been using 20 years of prison time as a maximum sentence on those trials. According to your cabinet, the prosecutors are wrong and murderers are still at risk for 30 years. They referred to the College of Attorneys General, which studied the issue and took the view that the sentence could indeed be 30 years. The college would send a letter to all parquet magistrates about this. Has that position been confirmed by now? Has the debrief been circulated with the position of the College of Attorneys General? When did that happen? If not, when will that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u3	The Constitutional Court ruled in its judgment No. 148/2017 of 21 December 2017 on the generalised correctness of crimes which, despite the alleged infringement, the effects of the provisions which have been destroyed on the decisions taken on that basis before 12 January 2018 shall be maintained on the date on which the judgment was published in the Belgian Official Journal. On 18 January, the College of Attorney General issued a flash directive on the judgment, in particular the COL 02/2018. The College of Attorneys-General confirms the view that a maximum sentence of 30 years is possible for crimes pending before the criminal court on which there is a life imprisonment. The College thus shares the view expressed by Professor Damien Vandermeersch, Advocate General at the Court of Cassation. In order to remove all uncertainty, the government asked the Constitutional Court at the Council of Ministers on 26 January for an interpretative ruling. The Constitutional Court is likely to give its ruling on that application in the near future and will thus give a final ruling on the interpretation of its judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u4	Mr. Secretary, was the letter already sent?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u5	January 18th.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the Hasselt prison was built thirteen years ago for 340 men and 30 women to allow prisoners to serve their detention in a dignified environment. At present, this prison is overcrowded with 200 prisoners and, as your previous answer shows, 76 prisoners on the ground all over Belgium would have been overcrowded, while in Bruges prison two sections have been closed because there are too few staff. The fact that there are sufficiently equipped cells to put people to sleep in a humane way, but that they are not used because of staff shortages, is, to say the least, remarkable. While the state of many buildings has been failing for years, the problem of the lack of humane detention and prison overcrowding appears to be exacerbated by a failing personnel policy. I can still understand that the construction of new prisons, for which you are dependent on obtaining the necessary permits, is a long-term work. But that you derail personnel policy in such a way that properly equipped prison parts need to be closed, while you leave too many prisoners sitting on each other's lips in the cells which make the prison guards' working conditions inhumane and dangerous, is not going to happen to me or to many. Mattress sleepers in 2018, that's a country like Belgium unworthy. Minister, we ask you to accept your responsibility and do what is within your power to ensure a decent detention. It's more than five to twelve for Belgium. How many more convictions should our country face? Here are my questions. Firstly, how do you think these prisoners will end up in our society if they don't even get a bed in prison and have to sleep in overcrowded cells on the ground? Secondly, what are the guarantees to provide sufficient staff once the first new prison is opened? Thirdly, by what date will the Belgian prisons no longer sleep on mattresses on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, I naturally share your concern that the fact that in some prisons prisoners are currently sleeping on the floor on a mattress does not fit in with a humane detention policy. I have therefore consulted with the penitentiary administration on this matter and we have worked together to find various solutions to eliminate this phenomenon. The number of ground sleepers has already been reduced by some 20 by the transfer of prisoners to other establishments. As a result of the transfer and the measures listed below, this problem must be removed within a number of weeks. On the one hand, these measures are of a material nature, namely the placing of bunk beds in cells for which there is room, and on the other hand, the optimisation of capacity management by transferring prisoners to other prisons. I hope to be able to free up additional capacity in the Leuven Central prison within a reasonable time, where a wing has recently been renovated, as well as in the Bruges prison, where two departments are currently closed due to lack of staff. Additional capacity is also put into use in the prisons in Leuze and Beveren, as is the contractual possibility. The necessary recruitments or technical interventions are currently under way. The further outflow of interns to the forensic psychiatric center and to the regular care circuit will also provide a mitigating effect on the prison population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u8	Thank you for your reply, Minister. So there's good hope. You are hoping for additional capacity in Leuven and in two departments in Bruges. Can I assume that in two or three weeks' time you spoke of a few weeks' time you can be reopened? I'm particularly interested in Bruges.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u9	For that, I must have done the necessary recruitments. For Bruges, I'd count on six weeks anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u10	Mrs De Wit will not be present for her question No. 23744.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u11	Mr President, Minister, the Netherlands is no longer delivering prisoners to Belgium for the time being. An Amsterdam judge suspended all extradition. He did this because inmates here aren't sure of a bed. In August 2017, the same court also postponed all extraditions to Belgium. Minister, I have three questions. Firstly, how many times have the Netherlands and other countries refused to extradite prisoners to Belgium over the last three years because of prison conditions that are not considered worthy such as sleeping prisoners on the ground? Secondly, what were the cases and inmates involved? Thirdly, how many convictions and by whom did Belgium have already incurred in connection with unworthy prison conditions over the last three years?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, first of all I would like to clarify that the Netherlands has not refused to hand over persons. The Amsterdam Court only temporarily suspended the final decision in order to allow Belgium to provide additional information and guarantees on detention conditions. Elements were provided and by judgment of 16 February 2018 the surrender was allowed in the case cited by you. This therefore means that the guarantees provided by Belgium were considered sufficient for the current surrender. In recent years, the Amsterdam Court has asked Belgium for additional information on detention conditions. No surrender was ever refused. The guarantees provided to the Netherlands are as follows: The surrendered person is locked in a cell whose area and facilities also meet the standards of the Council of Europe CPT and the detainees may participate in activities outside the cell within the ordinary regime such as the collective walk, the family visit, the employment and leisure activities unless, as for other detainees, a security or disciplinary measure would prohibit this. So their rights are not curtailed. Previously, we have also received such requests from other Member States, namely a request from Italy and two requests from the United Kingdom. These safeguards were also considered sufficient for surrender. Apart from the convictions issued in response to the strikes that took place in May and June 2016, there have been no convictions at national level for inhumane material detention conditions. The convictions for damages were usually linked to a limitation of basic rights such as the right to one hour outdoors per day, the right to three full meals, the right to contact a lawyer and the right to telephone contacts and also to visit the family. With regard to guaranteed services, I can tell you that talks are ongoing with the trade unions and within the government. It's supposed to finish that file by the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u13	Minister, if I understand correctly, the questions from the Netherlands, Italy and the United Kingdom are asking for guarantees. Once they have been given guarantees, they want to deliver. You say there have been convictions based on the strikes. How many convictions have we had in the last three years?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u14	You will have to submit another question to that effect. I don't know by heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u16	Mr President, Minister, you recently assured my colleague, Eric Thiébaut, that the State Security (VSSE) was "keeping an eye" on extremist groups on both the right and the left. Having received the opposite echoes, especially because of the focus on Islamic terrorism, I can only rejoice. Nevertheless, I would also like to ask you the question of the attention currently being paid by the State Security to harmful sectarian organisms. Here again, rumours come to us that this phenomenon would be set aside, for lack of manpower. Minister, can you reassure me on this point? Can you tell me about the State Security personnel who are currently dealing with this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u17	Mr President, Mr Frédéric, when he took office in 2014, the new Directorate-General of State Security critically examined the comprehensive list of priorities of the VSSE, and removed three main axes: counter-terrorism; counter-intelligence and interference; cyber-threat, for which limited capabilities were given priority. Through the VSSE Action Plan, these primary objectives were ratified by the National Security Council on 13 July 2015. Since then, the Sûreté has no longer actively followed the matter of harmful sectarian organizations. If VSSE collaborators were to reorient themselves to this issue, then gaps in other, more priority areas would have to be addressed. On the other hand, any philosophical or religious grouping which, in its organization or practice, engages in illegal activities related to individuals or society, or which violates human dignity, is monitored by the Centre for Information and Advice on Harmful Sectarian Organizations (CIAOSN). The harmful nature of a sectarian group is examined on the basis of the principles contained in the Constitution, laws, decrees, ordinances and international conventions for the protection of human rights, ratified by Belgium. However, the monitoring of harmful sectarian organizations is still enshrined in the Organization Act of the intelligence services. If the current situation requires a new focus on this point, it is obvious that the VSSE will do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u18	Mr President, I thank the minister for his answer. This is a subject that I have been very close to for many years. I thought I knew the answer since the State Security, at the Committee of Inquiry into the terrorist attacks, came to explain it to us. It is understandable that priorities should be set for counter-terrorism. But, Minister, I also know the role of the CIAOSN, which you have just referred to. It does not have the same capacity for action and investigation on the ground as the Sûreté may have. However, I know that the Sûreté had to choose three of the thirty priorities, which is a famous reduction. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this case was also taken lightly a few years ago. As a result, our country was obliged to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry in 1996 and a working group evaluating the recommendations in 2006. Today, it must be noted that our country is experiencing a growing evolution of these sectarian drifts in a range of sectors, and in particular in the field of public health. We can't say I wouldn't have tried to draw your attention to the problem. I know that the resources are limited, but I do not want one day to suffer a new tragedy and to blame the Belgian State for failing to fulfil its responsibilities in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u19	Mr. Maingain can only meet us at 3:15. Can you wait?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u20	Nothing is too good for Mr. Maingain!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u21	I'll pass it on to her.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u22	You're also attached, I think. And you stay!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u23	That's right!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u24	If you stay, between the two, my heart doesn't swing, I'll stay.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u25	It's noted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u26	Minister, you recently announced the ban on the use of electronic cigarettes in prison. This leads me to wonder about the situation with regard to conventional cigarettes. Indeed, although the main cause of the ban on electronic cigarettes is the similarity between their chargers and those of mobile phones, here there are other problems, you will agree. The main thing is, of course, the passive smoking that causes it. Smoking in a cell of barely a few square meters while sharing it with one or more people can be very disturbing for others if they do not smoke themselves. It is also common to hear inmates question their guards about this. The guards themselves are also victims of this problem. In France, the State has recently been sentenced for this reason, since the Court held that "the detainee is non-smoker, his imprisonment has not been carried out in the conditions of health required by the European Convention on Human Rights". In our case, passive smoking has also been recognized as one of the cases that led the European Court of Human Rights to order the Belgian State to pay compensation to former detainees for moral damage. Several countries, including Britain recently, have decided in recent years simply to ban smoking from prisons. This is a radical decision and has sometimes caused major problems in institutions. Minister, do you have an estimate of the percentage of smokers among inmates in our country? Similarly, do you have any figures on complaints from inmates or officers related to this problem? What is your position on this? Are you considering measures to address this problem? Can we not imagine putting in place a smoking room accessible at certain times of the day, putting in place "smoking" cells and other "non-smokers", or even reserving the possibility of smoking only during periods of walks? Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u27	Mr. Flahaux, we are not in a position to give an estimate of the percentage of smokers among inmates, as there is no record on this subject. We did not find any contentious actions brought by an inmate that would relate only to that subject matter. On the other hand, it is sometimes mentioned in some complaints against detention regimes. As far as personnel are concerned, I can confirm that agents have approached the Kom op tegen Kanker Foundation in order to identify the cells in which prisoners smoke and whether this situation can be rectified. However, it seems almost impossible to transform prisons into non-smoking areas in practice. Even in the most favourable regimes - where inmates are allowed to spend much of their day outside their cell - they will still spend a few hours there. Since the cell must be regarded as the inmate's private space, it seems unrealistic to impose a smoking ban. It is obvious that such a ban applies to common spaces. The creation of non-smokers' sections could also address only in a weak way the concern about the health effects of smoking, not only because it would result in a concentration of smokers, but also because it is difficult to ask staff whether they are applying to work in a smoking environment. I am therefore convinced that more emphasis on prevention and deterrence remains the most effective method in this area. Some prisons, in collaboration with the Communities, are developing projects designed to answer the question of dependence in the broad sense, but also in particular that of smoking. Smoking cessation products are not automatically made available to inmates by the medical service. In this regard, we agree on the functioning of INAMI in free society, providing for intervention for the first period. While prevention remains a competence of the Communities, prison doctors are obviously available to provide support to prisoners who need it. They are also entitled to call the free "Tabac Stop" line.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that an obligation would make the situation explosive. That being said, and God knows if I sometimes smoke, it is necessary to protect the weakest, namely the non-smokers. At the risk of appearing revolutionary, one might even imagine a reduction of sentence for the latter. In addition, whether you're a guardian or a prisoner, it's the same toxicity you're suffering.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u29	Mr President, I propose that you turn my question No 23925 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u30	That's a good note.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u31	Mr Minister, it is estimated that at least 500,000 women in Europe have undergone genital mutilation. The European Union has put in place a number of actions which include better legal protection and better access to victim support. Through the European Commission's "Rights, Equality and Citizenship" programme, projects to combat gender-based violence and support its victims are funded. In February 2017, a web platform on female genital mutilation was launched to train judges and other professionals in contact with victims at risk. Minister, how many cases of prosecution have been recorded in the last five years in the context of female genital mutilation in Belgium? What changes can be observed in the number of complaints? Are all the member countries of the European Union signatories to the Istanbul Convention? Female genital mutilation is a crime in all EU Member States. Does Belgium, in accordance with the principle of extraterritoriality, prosecute female genital mutilation in other countries? If so, in which countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u32	Mr Flahaux, it is impossible to receive new figures on prosecutions in the context of an oral parliamentary question. However, I can confirm that during the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 August 2017, six cases of genital mutilation were registered in the correctional offices. As regards the Istanbul Convention, all members of the Council of Europe have signed it, with the exception of Azerbaijan and Russia. With regard to prosecution in accordance with the principle of extraterritoriality, Circular 6/2017 of the College of Attorneys General of 27 April 2017 provides a number of guidelines aimed at identifying at best the signals that could alert to a situation of honour-related violence, to prevent such violence and to protect victims. It also aims at the systematic prosecution of the perpetrators of genital mutilation. In this context, the circular expressly draws the attention of the actors concerned to the principle of extraterritoriality contained in articles 6 to 14 of the Preliminary Title of the Code of Criminal Investigation and, in this case, to the jurisdiction of the Belgian courts in cases of female genital mutilation practised abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u33	Minister, thank you. I am particularly committed to this issue because excisions have consequences throughout the life of women who have been victims of excisions. Sexual pleasure – which also counts! – becomes almost non-existent and this is unacceptable. I'll send you a written question so I can get more detailed figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 23469 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u35	Minister, I understand that there are problems with opinions issued by the firearms trial bank in Liège concerning applications for import licences by the regions. After all, different materials for law enforcement must be introduced. I am thinking of pepper spray, matracks, batons, slander stickers, night vision goggles and automatic firearms. For this purpose, the Regions should issue import licences. For the services of public authority, including police, the arms law allows those cases under Article 27 of the arms law. The government can therefore purchase them, but they must first be introduced and stored by recognized persons who then deliver them. The zones order what they need each time, but expect traders to have sufficient stock to meet urgent questions. I heard that the management of the test bench always gives a negative opinion on the import licence applications each time the quantities delivered exceed the orders of the police themselves. In this way the traders themselves will no longer be able to build sufficient stock. Since such procedures always last a few months, there is a risk that police zones will be in difficulty in the long term and will not be able to supply themselves in time. Thus, for example, pepper spray that has expired will not be able to be replaced in time. I understand it is the ad-interim director of the test bench who looks at order by order, although that is not actually legally foreseen. I do not think it is possible that such a self-righteous attitude would mean that the police areas would no longer be able, in the long term, to have law enforcement equipment available in good time, which is why I am asking. Are you aware of that problem? What measures will you take if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u36	Mr Degroote, on the interpretation of the federal law, I am pleased to give you some clarifications. However, I cannot comment on the issue of import licences or on the opinions given in that context. For this, you are best addressed to the Regions. The Arms Act prohibits any action with prohibited weapons such as pepper spray and mattress. You rightly cited Article 27 of that law, which provides for exceptions for orders for the State or for public authorities. These are, in particular, orders intended for law and order services. In order to meet that demand, the law provides for authorised arms dealers to acquire and import those prohibited weapons. In principle, this exception applies only to the quantities ordered. However, it is permitted that authorised arms dealers carry a limited quantity of material for prospecting. This is explained in the ministerial letter on the application of the arms law. However, that possibility is not intended for the establishment of a stock of prohibited weapons. As the name suggests, these are dangerous weapons which must not be used lightly. The government must be able to verify at any time whether the ultimate buyers of those weapons are entitled to own them and therefore not to feed a black circuit. In this respect, there is also a responsibility for police forces to anticipate the necessary replacement of equipment in a timely manner. At least my services have not yet been contacted by police because of problems in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. By my question, I meant police forces who might be in trouble because of such an attitude. I hope that these problems do not arise. I'm sure I'd like to anticipate. I'll keep an eye on the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u38	Mr Van Hecke, Mr Thiébaut has only one question on the agenda. Can we discuss this question now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u39	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u40	Mr. President, Minister, the organizers of historical reconstructions to commemorate the end of the wars 1914-1918 and 1940-1945 are facing a major problem today. When they want to parade old World War II tanks equipped with old cannons, they are limited by several provisions of the Act of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with weapons. In its Chapter II, Article 3, § 1, point 3, on the classification of weapons, this law places, in fact, artillery pieces such as cannons in prohibited weapons. This, even though they are demilitarized and out of state by their owners. In order to allow these tanks to be present, the organisers must therefore be able to justify their neutralisation by issuing a certificate. If there are few problems with tanks coming from Belgium, the situation is different for vehicles coming from foreign countries. In fact, Belgian law does not recognise foreign test benches for non-portable heavy weapons. This prohibits the presence of foreign vehicles equipped with cannons on Belgian soil. In the face of this situation, it is urgent to find a solution since this year, many demonstrations are planned to celebrate the centenary of the end of the 1914-1918 war. One way would be to provide for an amnesty for these weapons through the adoption of a royal decree. It is my responsibility that the FPS Justice would consider this option. Minister, what about it? Is a royal decree providing for amnesty for artillery pieces such as cannons equipping the armoured personnel of the 1940-1945 war being drafted? If so, will it also allow the test bench to recognize the "craft" demilitarization of these weapons? If not, what solution do you propose to allow the presence of such demilitarized weapons at the numerous commemoration events planned this year in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u41	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, Article 3, § 2 of the Weapons Act provides that firearms which are permanently unfit for firing according to the criteria determined by the King shall be deemed to be over-the-counter. The Royal Decree of 20 September 1991 deals with firearms of historical, folkloric or decorative interest. On 2 April 2014, as part of the centenary of the First World War, an article 3/1 was incorporated into this royal decree in order to allow the use, under certain conditions, of weapons of this period, during historical reconstructions. The military equipment that is the subject of your question, such as tanks, must be demilitarized according to standards in the country of origin. This section is in force until January 1, 2019. However, in view of the effectiveness of the control procedures, it is envisaged to extend it beyond that date. As far as the Second World War was concerned, the recognition of demilitarization in another country was not foreseen for the time being. However, my services are currently examining, in consultation with the Regions responsible for import and export licences and with the organizers of such events, the possibility of extending the control procedures to historical reconstitutions over this period. These discussions will continue in the coming weeks. So I hope to find a solution quite quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u43	Mr. Maingain, you've joined us. Mr. Frédéric has had some nice statements for you. You can't imagine what he said. You are the first to intervene in this set of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u44	Mr President, Minister, last December, the psychiatry department of the Citadelle hospital decided to break the convention that binds him to the Lantin prison. Unless I'm wrong, the notice expires in April. Reason for this breach of the agreement: working conditions which continue to deteriorate. Psychiatrists say they are unable to treat inmates properly, due to a lack of staff. There would no longer be a nurse or psychologist to ensure overall follow-up of care. In the Justice Committee of 3 October 2017, I was already drawing your attention to the difficulty of properly caring for persons who were detained in Lantin prison, whether in the psychiatric annex or in a "classical" wing. You then told me that "the psychosocial service, the prison health care service, the welfare services for litigants and a mobile team are working together to establish cooperation to make care more efficient. Various working meetings were able to emerge, among other things, concrete proposals for intervention by the three legal aid services, and an intensification of the care of interns by the mobile team." So, minister, could you please let me know if the effectiveness of systematically moving a mobile team to Lantin has been compared with that of permanent coaching? Has a budget comparison also taken place, particularly in terms of the intervention costs of the mobile team? What short-, medium- and long-term measures have you proposed to the management of Lantin to remedy this situation and the lack of psychiatrists? While, within the time limit for the expiry of the Convention, a more definitive solution is envisaged. When can internees be placed in a social defence institution, in any case as far as persons incarcerated in Lantin are concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u45	Minister, we have learned from the press that the 49 inmates in Lantin's psychiatric annex are no longer being treated. The Lantin Prison Supervision Commission has called for relief since, for several months, the prison has been experiencing a significant shortage of medical staff in the psychiatric annex. It seems that, under a convention between your FPS and the Regional Hospital Centre "La Citadelle", the presence of psychiatrists has been severely limited to the detriment of inmates. As Mr. Maingain said, in the meantime the convention has been broken. The multidisciplinary psychiatric team, which has to follow up on their care in prison, is too limited, as replacements have not taken place and diseases have decimated the team. How can we ensure comprehensive care, which is essential for this type of patient? It's impossible! It is also reported that of the 49 internees in December, 36 are kept in the annex pending placement in a social defence institution. Only six detainees are actually under judicial observation. The detainees concerned should be sent to specialized psychiatric centres, where the waiting list is long, as they are saturated. Belgium has been condemned on several occasions by the European Court of Human Rights for the lack of care provided to prisoners in psychiatric annex. If we are aware that you have opened a number of places, it must be noted that some still remain on the tile and that some establishments are less well off than others. Minister, what is the status of negotiations with Lantin's psychiatric annex? When can we hope for a release of the situation? What are you proposing to quickly improve the psychiatric care needed for inmates in the Lantin Psychiatric Annex? When can the 36 inmates expect to be placed in more appropriate specialized psychiatric centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u46	Minister, as my two excellent colleagues have already summarized the situation, I will make a few specific questions directly. The first concerns the status of the staff within the psychiatric annex of the Lantin prison. What are the prospects for short- and medium-term changes in the situation of staff? What about the recruitments announced last June? How are psychiatric consultations organized for inmates in the Annex? Do you confirm that the agreement between the CPF Justice and CHR of the Citadelle has been broken? If so, how will the consultations and follow-up of detainees be organized when this break-up takes effect? What about the collaborations announced last June to improve the care of prisoners? What other measures are envisaged to improve the situation in the psychiatric annex of the Lantin prison in the short and medium term?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u47	Colleagues, the reform of the internment system is continuing. The decrease in the number of prisoners in prison is very clear: from 1,100 in 2014 to 565 today, a decrease of 50% thanks in particular to the opening of the FPCs in Ghent and Antwerp but also thanks to the extension of the capacities in the classical hospital environment (Les Marronniers, Bierbeek, Zelzate, etc.). Efforts continue as the construction of new settlements is planned in Paifve, Alost and Wavre. Public Health has provided 80 additional places for the southern part of the country in the various psychiatric institutions. DPI services work closely with the Public Health Coordinator and mobile teams to ensure that these places can be filled as quickly and as adequately as possible As far as the situation in Lantin is concerned, several steps have been taken to improve the situation of the care team at this institution. Currently, the presence of psychiatrists is planned through an agreement with the regional hospital centre "La Citadelle" but the latter closes late at the end of March. New approaches to the search for psychiatrists are under way. The psychiatrists have shown their interest in this new function, but at this stage it is premature to confirm their commitment. Nevertheless, I would point out that, at present, the consultations of psychiatrists are still organized as agreed, i.e. five half-days a week. Contact with external services (Social Assistance for Persons with Disabilities (SASJ)) was carried out for more intensive collaboration in the care of patients residing in the Lantin annex through social support, counselling and psychological follow-up interviews, intensification of interventions, etc. With regard to the "care" team in the annex of this prison, a social worker, an occupational therapist and an educator are currently present. For the position of Nurse, a consultation of the recruitment reserves has not yet produced results and a new recruitment procedure will be launched in the near future. As far as the psychologists are concerned, I have just learned that one of these two people has just resigned. A recruitment procedure could soon be restarted to replace it. If job interviews lead to genuine recruitment, the prison's "care" team should finally be in sufficient numbers to perform its duties. In addition, collaboration between the two FPS, Public Health and Justice, on the implementation of policy decisions on internment is also ongoing. It is in this context that the mobile teams under the jurisdiction of the Public Health FPS are active. They accompany interns outwards and facilitate their transition to regular external psychiatry. The placement of the 36 internees depends on the capacity to receive them, the external care system, the evolution of the patient's condition, the evolution of the waiting list of the Paifve and Marronnier institutions, and the decisions taken at the level of the courts for the enforcement of sentences, particularly in their social welfare chambers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am well aware that structural solutions are envisaged in the medium to long term. Indeed, the development of additional places in specialized agencies has long been announced. I am aware that administrative procedures and public procurement rules must be respected. Nevertheless, we still feel that, for emergencies, and Lantin presents one, even though this prison is probably not the only prison in this case, the administration does not provide a structured and organized response within a predictable time frame. Of course, you are announcing recruitment procedures for certain categories of staff, but first of all there is a real shortage of staff assigned to the mission to support persons who are interned in penal institutions, in general, and particularly in Lantin. It is the shortage of staff, due to the budgetary constraints that you have imposed unilaterally on this accompaniment sector, which leads to the loss of staff confidence. I am also impressed to see the number of staff on sick leave, on career breaks, as well as those who resign. I heard that someone had even resigned. I don't know his motivation, but that would be to check. This is due to an unbearable workload. Moreover, the psychiatrists themselves, who had agreed to assume the permanences at the start of their service at CHR La Citadelle, say that with their staff, they cannot cope with the workload. The five half-days per week that they themselves provide are not sufficient to cover the 40-day period of internees. This is the result of the budgetary restrictions that have been imposed on your department and that you have accepted. These create an untenable situation which, I fear, will lead to other situations which are even more painful, especially for those who must be accompanied on a psychiatric level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u49	In the same vein, and more briefly, I would say that my colleague Mr Maingain's reaction is right. I hear the minister say that the agreement with CHR La Citadelle concerning psychiatrists is still under way. However, it ends at the end of March, i.e. tomorrow. I hear there's research going on, which doesn't reassure me. Without wanting to load the boat, Minister, because I do not want to bother you, between the end of March and the fulfilment of the commitments in terms of health care in the psychiatric wing, I have the feeling that the days will be even more painful there. Perhaps I would like to draw your attention to something that you should discuss with your colleague in the Public Service. We have just referred to the difficulties of working in the sector. Indeed, it is extremely complicated to work in prisons. If we take a close look at the staff situation and its stability, we find that many people are there on a contractual basis and have been waiting for many years for selor examinations to stabilize their situation. So they're like Sister Anne: they don't see anything coming. It is difficult to be motivated and involved on a daily basis when you don't know if you will still be in place the next day. This job obviously requires an absolutely colossal human investment. I'm going to follow up on this case and wonder if I'm not going to find out on the spot to see a little bit more clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u50	Minister, we will come back to you, as we will have to check whether the initiatives you mentioned have been implemented. We will therefore address this theme again, perhaps even after an on-site visit. Furthermore, Mr. Frédéric, we are not very far from the buildings in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u51	Question No 23763 by Mrs Evita Willaert is postponed. Question No 23764 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u52	Mr President, Minister, I would just like to point out that the questions on the agenda were actually written questions that were not answered in good time, which obliges me to put them orally. It'll take some time. You promised in January that you would be more attentive to answering written questions in good time. The Royal Decree of 22 December 2016 fixing the rate for the performance of translators and interpreters in criminal matters at the request of the judicial authorities reformulates some matters relating to the remuneration for sworn translators or interpreters. A number of cases have been further clarified by the FPS Justice in the Quality Manual. The High Council for the Self-employed and SMEs made some comments on this in a recent opinion. One point is about the time that translators and interpreters often lose between two assignments because of their transfer. When both orders are made in the context of an action brought by the court, the Hoge Raad also asks that this time be reimbursed. The Hoge Raad also comments on the complexity of charging and questions the starting point of night work at 10 p.m. Other laws always govern that night work starts at 8:00 p.m. In the case of pro-deo lawyers, it's even at 7:00. Finally, there is also a problem with fines for refused services, especially in view of the lateness of fees. In addition, the Hoge Raad believes that consideration should be given to an availability fee for watchkeeping at night and at weekends. The profession of sworn translator-interpreter is under pressure. More and more courts are having trouble finding interpreters. I have a few questions about this. Firstly, do you think that the request for compensation for the travel time is justified? If so, how do you intend to respond? Secondly, what is your first evaluation of the new pricing whereby translators are paid per line of sixty attacks and interpreters per minute performed? What is your response to the Supreme Court's criticism? Thirdly, do you think that the starting point of the night performance for sworn translators-interpreters should fall earlier? How and by when do you intend to respond to this? Fourthly, what are your findings regarding the fine scheme? How many times was a fine imposed in 2017? What was the total amount of fines collected? Fifthly, what do you think of the idea of providing an availability fee for the sworn translators-interpreters? Do you think this is a fair question? If so, how long do you intend to set aside a budget for this? I shall now turn to my second question concerning the translators' interpreters. In an opinion, the Hoge Raad for the Self-employed and the SME calls for more attention to the remuneration of the sworn translators-interpreters. In concrete terms, they ask for an indexation of these fees as provided for in Article 148 of the General Rules of Procedure on judicial fees in criminal matters. In addition, the problem of late payments is addressed. Some translators work full-time in court and are self-employed, which means that a delayed payment can cause major personal problems. In the meantime, the shortage of translators-interpreters is becoming increasingly acute. There is talk of using Google Translate in processes, a very bad evolution. I have a few questions about this. Firstly, will the demand for indexation of fees for translators and interpreters be met? Why is that, or why not? Secondly, what is the situation at the moment with regard to late payment to the Justice Department as regards the performance of translators and interpreters? Thirdly, what action will you take to remedy this delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u53	Mr Minister, in its opinion of 11 October 2017 on "the principles to be applied to the performance of sworn translators and interpreters", the Conseil Supérieur des Indépendants et des SMEs calls for the effective application of the indexing of the performance of sworn translators and interpreters. It is based on section 148 of the General Regulations on Costs of Justice in Criminal Matters. The Conseil Supérieur also regrets the sometimes very long payment periods after the completion of the benefits. Mr. Minister, from the beginning of the legislature, you have taken the question of the costs of justice to your hands. In the Justice Plan, you announced your desire to better control the costs of justice, including by modernizing the legal framework, reviewing tariffs and rationalizing accounting treatment. You have already implemented some of these measures concerning translators and interpreters, since the Royal Decree of 22 December 2016 fixed the rate for the services of translators and interpreters in repressive matters upon the request of the judicial authorities. I would therefore like to take stock with you of the remuneration of translators and interpreters in repressive matters. Has the decree of 22 December 2016 been the subject of prior consultation with the sworn translators and interpreters? This royal decree came into force on 1 January 2017 but it is my responsibility that certain measures – such as the performance sheet – are not ready and that uncertainties remain. Is the application of this royal decree positively assessed? Is there any consultation with the sector to carry out this evaluation? Are there any shortcomings or uncertainties in practice? In view of the Royal Decree of 22 December 2016, is the indexing of the remuneration of the services of translators and interpreters in law enforcement, in accordance with Article 148 of the General Regulation on the costs of justice in law enforcement still valid? Are measures taken to reduce the sometimes very long time between the completion of a benefit and its remuneration? What is the status of the establishment of justice expense offices to streamline the accounting treatment of court costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u54	Monsieur le président, Mr Van Hecke, the Royal Decree of 22 December 2016 will be reviewed later this year and some adjustments will be proposed to accommodate pertinent sighs. Of course, the professional organisations will be invited to submit their comments during the year as a basis for examining what can be done. I am aware of the opinion of the Supreme Court. It may be an inventory of wishes and advices that would make the profession of legal translator more attractive, but such inventories take little or no account of the cost and feasibility of the wishes expressed. The resources available, such as conscience, are limited and a large number of cases are virtually unrealizable in the judicial world which has a uniqueness in which it is not possible to take over cases from other sectors. The penalty rule for those who refuse to act while formally registering as available for contracts is in practice a stick behind the door that has not been effectively applied so far. The statutory indexation of the rates applicable to all providers of services appointed in the context of a criminal case has not happened since 2013, but I ask for this indexation again this year too. The payment of court fees is made on two levels. Payments intended for translators and interpreters shall be handled and carried out by the local level, i.e. by the Registrys which generated the costs. There is a delay at that level. This delay is due, on the one hand, to a lack of qualified staff in some places, as well as to a lack of resources, and, on the other hand, to a lack of knowledge of the instructions, both by the competent services and by the experts concerned. The aim is to open by 2019 new local offices centralized by borough, independent of registries and occupied by specialists, which are currently being recruited. The procedures would then be reviewed and made more effective. There have been consultations, on several occasions and in various forms, with professional organizations, whether recognized or not, of translators and interpreters during the drafting of the Royal Tariff Order. The same applies to the drafting of the quality manual, which has been disseminated in order to give instructions and explanations to people in the field. Their comments and suggestions were taken into account as far as possible, i.e. the budgetary framework and the specific nature of the judiciary had to be taken into account. The entry into force of the Royal Tariff Order was such that it was not yet possible to implement it in its entirety, as the field services were not sufficiently well prepared. Finally, the new regulations allowing for the formal establishment of the new offices of justice fees are in the final stages of its preparation. The commitment of the first staff members, who will be trained in the central justice department to become sufficiently specialized to be able to lead the offices, is in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u55	Minister, you say that what the Supreme Court is proposing is known, but that there is a problem in terms of cost and affordability. Many of the things they ask do not seem to me to be exaggerated, but even obvious. If, in the long term, we want our justice system to work properly, to have high-quality translations of documents and to have correct interpretations, we also need good translators and good interpreters. We can only obtain and keep these if they are paid correctly and in good time, and if fees are indexed as well. If that does not happen, I fear it will become increasingly problematic to attract even more high-quality people. You also mention that some of the delays are due to the lack of qualified staff. The answer to that is very simple. Let's invest in qualified personnel. We have seen enormous savings on staff in recent years, but we need qualified staff. There is an important task for you as a minister, namely to invest in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u56	Minister, thank you for taking stock of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u57	You have four more questions, Mr Van Hecke. Do you translate these into written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u58	These are written questions, Mr President, which have been converted into oral questions. So it's hard for me to translate them into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u59	Minister, EuroPris, the European Organisation of Prison and Correctional Services, is an organisation representing staff in European prisons and expressing their views. Belgian prisons are also members of EuroPris, through the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions. How the organisation works and how it relates to its members is not entirely clear. Recently, the mandate of the Director-General of Penitentiary Institutions, Hans Meurisse, expired and he was seconded to EuroPris as an international expert. I have the following questions. Firstly, what statute does EuroPris have right? How do Belgian prisons and DG EPI relate precisely to EuroPris? Are there any costs involved? If so, what costs? In what other ways does this organisation obtain financial resources? Secondly, who manages the EuroPris secretariat? Does this happen entirely with own resources or is there cooperation with DG EPI, which is based in Brussels at the same address? Thirdly, can you clarify the assignment? With regard to Mr Meurisse's secondment, can you clarify his assignment and position? What status is this posting subject to? Is there a specific time limit for posting? Does he remain subject to the Staff Regulations of DG EPI or, where appropriate, with other staff, is he covered by a specific European statute?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u60	Mr Van Hecke, EuroPris brings together representatives of penitentiary organisations within the Council of Europe, with the aim of exchanging well-functioning professional prison practices among the various members, namely the countries that have joined them. The Directorate-General for EPI has been a member of EuroPris since its creation in 2011. To this end, it shall pay an annual contribution of EUR 6 000. For this purpose, the penitentiary administration will have access to all available information held by the organisation in its knowledge database. As a result, she can also participate in conferences, symposia and workshops on penitentiary themes of all kinds. EuroPris also receives financial support through the European Commission's Criminal Justice Programme to further develop its operation. EuroPris's secretariat is located in The Hague. As a member of EuroPris, there is, of course, cooperation with DG EPI. EuroPris members exchange daily formal and informal information with a view to further optimizing and addressing current problems or questions. Mr Meurisse acts as an international senior expert for the FPS Justice and is responsible for several areas of expertise relating to the missions of EuroPris related to Belgium, and in particular to the FPS Justice. He shall also represent EuroPris and the FPS Justice, under the mandate of the Chairman of the Management Committee, within the European Union, in nominations in workshops or at thematic conferences. He is also responsible for the organisation and coordination of scientific research on prison policy. He is under the authority of the Chairman of the Management Committee of the FPS Justice and has been appointed by a decision on "leave for assignment." That assignment is scheduled for one year and renewable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which clarifies a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u62	Mr President, Minister, major sporting events often increase online gambling. Gambling agencies play a handy role in this by increasing their publicity and responding to the relevant event. This will be the case, for example, at the World Cup in June and July 2018. In the past, you have indicated on several occasions that certain advertising techniques go too far. For example, people who once showed interest in the past are haunted by particularly aggressive digital advertising campaigns. After attempts at self-regulation from the sector, you would now be working on an implementing decision on the issue. This would include a ban on intrusive mailings to known problem players and a ban on gambling advertising during family programs. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, how do you want to force the gambling agencies or encourage them to make their advertising campaigns less intrusive and aggressive? Secondly, would you also like to restrict the link that gaming agencies have with major sporting events? Thirdly, what measures do you provide for in the implementing decision to achieve these objectives? Fourthly, when will you take this implementing decision and when will the measures take effect? Fifthly, how and when will you assess whether these measures have achieved their objective?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u63	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, first of all I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a draft Royal Decree specifically for the physical betting offices which should reduce the number of bets. The number is currently set at a maximum of 1 000 and will be reduced to 600. The role of municipalities in the establishment and control of betting offices is also strengthened. From now on, a covenant with the Communities will also be required for the betting offices, following the example of the gaming halls, in which agreement has been reached on at least the location and opening and closing hours. Bet offices may also no longer be located in the vicinity of places where minors come, unless the municipality wishes to depart from them. In the field of advertising, there is the draft Royal Decree on the conditions for the exploitation of games of chance and betting through information society instruments. The new rules should counter an over-supply of advertising after more and more advertising for gambling and betting, both on the street and on radio and television, and in particular during major sports competitions. The draft royal decree first deals with advertising rules for online gambling, as the law grants an authorisation to the King only for this purpose. Afterwards, the physical gaming devices will follow. The main aim of the Royal Decree on Advertising is to improve the protection of players and to prevent large-scale loss of money. For online betting operators, among other things, it will not be allowed to target advertising to players on the EPIS list of excluded players or to players under the playing age. The content of the advertising will have to comply with certain conditions. For example, there should be no exaggeration of profit opportunities and should be consistent with reality or should not be suggested that participation in gaming can be a solution to financial problems or an alternative to working and saving. Each advertising message must also mention the minimum age to be allowed to gamble, as well as the slogan 'Gamble with measure'. The advertising must not mention bonuses or free game participations. The first reading of the draft royal decision on advertising was already approved by the Council of Ministers on 13 October. Afterwards, the draft was notified to the European Commission which did not submit any comments. In the course of the following weeks, inter-office discussions are planned, as well as a Consultative Committee, after which the Council of Ministers will be able to ask for the opinion of the Council of State after second reading. The Gaming Commission will play a central role in the application and control of the Royal Decree advertising. On the basis of its findings in the field, corrective action can be taken at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. If I go into more detail about the timing, since you are talking about interkabinets working group and seeking the advice of the Council of State, then I fear that the Royal Decree will not be published before the start of the football World Cup, or is that still possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u65	It'll be before.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u66	If we make it to the finals on July 15th?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u67	You are an optimist, as I am, so the answer to both questions is yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u68	Mr Minister, the study "Human impact of road accidents', prepared by the Road Safety Knowledge Centre in collaboration with the former BIVV and the FPS Mobility, shows, among other things, that 40% of the seriously injured and less seriously injured are permanently disabled. It could be expected that the sentences of the police and labour courts reflect that medical reality. In practice, however, there is rarely or never a permanent disability of more than 25 per cent, let alone 100 per cent. The study also shows that 50% of road victims see their revenues fall by between EUR 200 and EUR 1 000 per month. In 20% of the files, revenue losses exceed EUR 1 000 per month. According to the study, almost half of the traffic victims do not receive any insurance compensation. About 52 000 people are injured or killed in traffic every year, so a significant number of them are affected. The study also indicates that permanent complaints are more common in the case of mild to moderate injuries. In particular whiplash and brain trauma are mentioned several times as the cause of these long-term symptoms. In practice, however, these victims are granted only 0 to 3% permanent invalidity, exceptionally a little more. These figures are alarming, to say the least. They can point out that there is a problem with the litigation on damages. In the light of Panorama's 2015 broadcast, which has been cited on several occasions in the committee, the cause of the problem seems to be the reports of the legal experts who are usually made up in these cases. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Are you prepared to have an investigation conducted into the judgments of the police courts responsible for dealing with road accidents and the labour law courts responsible for dealing with road accidents? In this context, it seems appropriate to map a number of data by court and district. This will clarify the extent of the number of expert reports that may be wrong. It concerns, in particular, an overview of the percentage of permanent invalidity awarded, an overview of the percentage of permanent incapacity for work granted, an overview of the third party assistance granted, an overview of the compensation granted and an overview of the appointed legal experts, as well as the number of appointments per legal expert. What solution do you propose to the road victims who were unjustly sent home without compensation or with inadequate compensation? Are you prepared to set up a hotline that can bundle and investigate complaints? Do you foresee measures for the insurance sector to compensate road victims correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u69	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, the main issue of road safety concerns the competence of my colleague in Mobility. As far as justice is concerned, I am, of course, prepared to cooperate in carrying out a study. However, I do not believe that it is possible to obtain a statistical picture of the adequacy of the damages granted by the court. The statistical data in breakdown you propose will not give a clear picture because such elements must be able to be checked against the concrete elements of a dossier. A study therefore requires a thorough case study based on a reliable sample of files. Setting up a hotline does not seem to make much sense. Complaints about judgments on civil claims for damages must be made by means of existing and appropriate means. For this I refer to the legal remedies and specifically to the possibility of appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u70	Minister, you say that you are willing to participate in a study on the subject. That is, of course, a good thing. At the same time, you also say that it will not be so obvious. You do not think the hotline makes much sense and think that people who have complaints have to report through the existing channels. That's exactly the problem. I've asked questions about this before. You know the history, too. A number of files from the Panorama broadcast would be analysed by the Supreme Court. That is not possible because there is no final verdict yet. People are often sent from the locker to the wall. In order to address the problem, the possibility of a profession is really insufficient. I think the government needs to think very carefully about how it is going to proceed with this. The mere existence of an opportunity to appeal will not suffice to identify the problem and to take confidence-building measures for victims who feel cold and have the impression that they are being sent to the wall with their complaints. I think more action is needed there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u71	Minister, it is the government's vision, and it was reiterated in the most recent policy paper, that mosques that comply with the rules should be recognised as much as possible. In this way, the government has an insight into what is happening in the prayer houses and mutual trust is created. Radical elements can be detected faster in this way. There is also funding for recognition. The recognition of prayer houses is a regional competence, but some federal authorities provide advice on security. That advisory procedure would be amended. In addition to State Security, the federal and local police, the military intelligence service and the OCAD would also bring together their advice. The Foreign Affairs and Finance Service also have their input. You would have a letter ready to clarify the procedure. The Flemish Region has for some time stopped a number of recognitions despite a positive safety advice. The proposed reform should respond to this. However, the question is whether this still makes a difference for the current files. In addition, Minister Homans has already indicated that, despite the clarification, it will not respond positively to future applications for recognition for the time being. In particular, it considers the letter to be a confirmation that the opinion had previously been insufficiently upholstered. First of all, what exactly is in the letter? Secondly, when will it be published? Thirdly, what will be the impact on the pending dossiers for which safety advice has already been given? Fourthly, how do you feel about the fact that no new recognition will happen in Flanders over the next 12 months, despite the letter of conversion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u72	Mr Van Hecke, the Regions and the German-speaking Community are responsible for the recognition of local faith communities. Following the cooperation agreement of 3 July 2008, the Federal Government, through the Minister of Justice, is to give an opinion on State security and public policy. The joint circular of 22 July 2017, which I drew up together with my colleagues from Security and Home Affairs, Finance, Defence, and Asylum and Migration, establishes a new procedure for drawing up that opinion. Thanks to the new circular, more services are structurally involved in the advice, in particular the Honorary Services of the FPS Justice Department, the Security of the State, the General Intelligence and Security Service of Defence, the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis, the Federal and Local Police, the Foreign Affairs Office and the Financial Information Processing Cell. Each service has a specific task, focusing on terrorism, extremism, radicalism, interference, espionage and organised crime and related facts. There is also a better flow of information between the various services, with the local level, with the regions and the German-speaking Community. A procedure shall be introduced to deliver an opinion on a new application for recognition or to amend an existing opinion if a service concerned establishes new pertinent and substantial information in an already recognised community of faith, which may justify the amendment of the existing opinion. The circular, which deals in detail with the operational operation of the services pursuant to the Royal Decree of 24 March 2000 implementing the Law of 11 December 1998 on classification and security clearance, safety attestations and safety advice, is limited and will therefore not be published. Advice applications for which the safety investigation has not yet started will be dealt with in accordance with the new procedure. The recognition itself of the local religious communities is a regional matter. It is therefore up to the regions and the German-speaking Community to decide whether or not to grant recognition. As a federal minister, I do not want to prevent a policy in which I, like the committee of inquiry, believe in the terrorist attacks, namely the recognition of a community of faith precisely in order to integrate them safely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u74	Mr President, Minister, the Child Focus report entitled Victims of teenage pimps in Flanders shows that there is no clear policy on prosecuting teenage pimps. Certain teenage pimps are being prosecuted on the grounds of human trafficking, others on the grounds of youth decay and prostitution. Especially when it comes to a small file, a file with one teenage pimp and one victim, the suspected teenage pimp is rarely prosecuted on the basis of human trafficking despite the fact that since 2013 it is no longer required that a suspect belongs to a particular network in order to be convicted of trafficking in human beings. However, this bias in prosecution policy has important consequences. There is, after all, an unjustified difference in penalties: The penalty for spoiling youth and prostitution is more severe when the victim is under 14 years of age, a prison sentence of 15 to 20 years compared with 10 to 15 years of age, whereas the penalty for trafficking in human beings is more severe when the victim is over 16 years of age, a prison sentence of 10 to 15 years compared with 5 to 10 years. When the victim is between 14 and 16 years old, the law provides for the same penalty, a prison sentence of 10 to 15 years. Moreover, the victims of trafficking in human beings may benefit from a specific protection status under Directive COL 01/2015 and the Ministerial circular of 26 September 2008 on the introduction of multidisciplinary cooperation with regard to the victims of trafficking in human beings and/or certain heavier forms of trafficking in human beings, whereas this is not the case for the victims of the deterioration of youth and prostitution. In addition, teenage pimping is closely linked to the problem of digital forms of cross-border behaviour. The crime of spreading child pornography and grooming are already included in our Criminal Code. The concept of child pornography has recently been clarified. On the other hand, there are still serious doubts about grooming. For example, why should there be a proposal to meet before grooming is punishable? Why should the proposal for a meeting be followed by material actions leading to the mentioned meeting in order to be punishable? What about the attempt at grooming? What if a meeting was introduced to someone who was pretending to be under the age of sixteen but was actually older, for example a parent, brother or sister or a police officer, without the groomer being aware of it? In addition, the growth of social media has also led to the emergence of many new sexual offences which today need to be curbed by criminal acts spread throughout the Criminal Code. I am thinking of revenge porn: images or videos of a person, whether completely naked or not, who have been given or made voluntarily to another, often the partner, who will distribute or threaten to distribute them at a later date and without the permission of the first person. I am also thinking of sextortion: behavior in which sexual material is collected with which the depicted is then blackmailed. Or I'm thinking about sexting among young people: creating, sending online and sharing sexually tinted messages or images via mobile or internet. In the Netherlands, a bill to modernise the law on vice is in preparation. The aim is to give, among other things, digitally committed sex crimes a clear place in the legal framework. Mr Minister, first of all, how many convictions for teenage pimping have been pronounced in Belgium over the last three years, and on what grounds have the perpetrators been convicted? Secondly, how do you think that the division in the prosecution policy of teenage pimps should be resolved? Do you think that teenage pimping as a specific form of trafficking in human beings of minors should be specified in the COL 01/2015 directive so that persecutions always take place on the basis of trafficking in human beings? If so, will you change the penalty level so that a distinction is made between minors under the age of 14 or over? Or do you think that penalties for trafficking in human beings, spoilage of youth and prostitution should be brought into line with the maintenance of the severe penalties imposed on victims between 14 and 18 years of age, 10 to 15 years of age, and for victims under 14 years of age, 15 to 20 years of imprisonment, so that the perpetrators risk the same penalties regardless of the criminal qualification for which they are being prosecuted? Thirdly, on the basis of what criminal qualifications are the above mentioned forms of digital sexual cross-border behavior, vengeance porn, sextortion and sexting being curbed by young people today? Fourthly, do you believe that these new forms of digital sexual behaviour as separate crimes should be included in our Criminal Code?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u75	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the loverboy method is a technique used by traffickers, especially with regard to minors, but also with regard to adult women. A fact-finding analysis and the profiles of the victim and offender should provide insight into whether to prosecute, on the basis of Article 433d, trafficking in human beings, and/or Article 379, spoiling youth and prostitution, of the Criminal Code. The latest figures show that in 2015, 2016 and 2017 there were 30, 38 and 20 convictions for trafficking in human beings, respectively, with the aggravating circumstance that the facts were committed against a minor. However, this does not mean that these cases are systematically classified as loverboys. On the basis of the 2014 review of the Ministerial circular of 26 September 2008 on the introduction of multidisciplinary cooperation on the victims of trafficking in human beings, several legal instruments have been adapted to better combat the phenomenon of loverboys. For example, the chapter on minor victims was adapted at the time and specific attention was drawn to the phenomenon of loverboys. In addition, the letter from the College of Attorneys General and the relevant ministers on the follow-up, detection and prosecution was amended, providing for better communication between the reference magistrates of trafficking in human beings and the youth magistrates. In connection with sexting, grooming and revenge porn, I can tell you that revenge porn was punishable by Article 371.1 of the Criminal Code and grooming through Article 377c of the Criminal Code. Sexting, as such, is not a separate crime, but may be covered by pre-existing criminal provisions of the Criminal Code, such as voyeurism, revenge porn, Article 371.1, the distribution of child pornography images, Article 383a, or the distribution of writings, images or prints contrary to good morals, Article 383. It can also be a first step in the grooming process. The various cited offences that are sexual in nature and seriously infringe the integrity of a person and are also increasingly linked to IT and social media require particular attention. I would therefore like to draw attention to the work of the Committee on the Criminal Code, which will include and adapt not only the measures of punishment but also the various aspects of these offences, so that these serious acts can be dealt with in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u76	Minister, I have one more question. In the Netherlands, a bill to modernise the law on vice is in preparation. Is the same thing possible here? Now all this is seen separately, while one might as well group it under a separate chapter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u77	The new penal code will bring a new perspective on the sex crimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u78	At the Poppe trial, the chairman of the Assis court ordered a psychologist to deliver his notes. The psychologist had treated the so-called Deacon of Death and came to testify about it. The man was allowed to remove some of the names of those involved from the notes, but then they were seized and copied by the chairman for the jury. This seizure is, to put it mildly, curious and raises an important legal question. Indeed, can a judge obtain information through an attachment when a professional secrecy officer refuses to give it through testimony? In Belgium, it is in principle prohibited to confiscate documents covered by professional secrecy such as medical records. It can only be done if the professional secrecy holder himself is suspected. Crime rules out professional secrecy. I have a few questions about that. Without commenting on this specific case, what are the possibilities of a magistrate to obtain information covered by a witness's professional secrecy? I would like to have both a look at the possibilities in the situation in which the witness wishes to provide this information voluntarily, or, if per carrier, and in the situation in which the witness does not wish to do so. What do you think of the statement made by the holder of professional secrecy that future holders would be better advised not to file these documents and would no longer be able to testify if a judge could confiscate them? In the case referred to above, some holders of professional secrecy consider it appropriate to speak and thus to avoid further mischief, while others took the opposite view. How can we have such divergent views in the same process? Do you think it is necessary, together with your colleague from Health Care, to sensitize doctors in one way or another? If so, are you planning any initiative and in what direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u79	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, as you yourself pointed out in your question, it is particularly delicate to make statements in connection with ongoing criminal proceedings, precisely because such statements could be regarded as a precedent. The College of Attorney General therefore refused to give me any further explanation, given the case to which you refer. I can only answer you in the most general terms that certain additional safeguards are provided for information obtained from certain professions which have been held to be criminally confidential by virtue of their profession. This is the case, for example, for documents seized by lawyers and doctors. Here representatives of the respective orders supervise to a certain extent and may be present at the search, without preventing the investigating judge from confiscating certain documents on grounds of confidentiality. I also refer here to Article 66 of the Code of Practice, which provides for an active supervisory function for a representative of the Provincial Order of Medicine. The deontological code for the psychologist also contains provisions on professional secrecy and legal exceptions. I would also like to point out that the documents seized, even if they are of a confidential nature, are part of the judicial file, which in turn is protected by the secrecy of the investigation during the investigation phase. Finally, as regards the right to speak of the holders of professional secrecy, I refer you to the provisions of Articles 458 to 458 of the Criminal Code which lay down the criminal provisions and legal exceptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u81	Debates of the European Parliament 23873 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u82	Mr President, Minister, some news agencies give Osama Atar for death in Syria or Iraq. It is known that its role in the attacks in Paris and Brussels, although there are still many shadow zones, is very important. The circumstances of his release when he returned in 2012, the reasons why the Belgian government actively sought to release him, the reasons why he was not monitored by the Belgian security services on his return from Iraq, the reasons why a passport was issued to him contrary to the Belgian authorities' promises to the Iraqi authorities, are all ridicule. Mr Minister, the Belgian population and the victims of the Paris and Brussels attacks have the right to have answers to these questions as soon as possible. Also, do you have any information to confirm the death of Osama Atar? If so, where, when, under what circumstances? Regardless of this, is a judicial investigation into Osama Atar under way? If so, will it continue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u83	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, the State Security has received information that may indicate the death of Osama Atar. Given the situation in the Irako-Syrian area, this type of information cannot be fully confirmed. This information is exchanged with the various Belgian partners and put in perspective with the other information collected in order to obtain an image of the most recent threat possible. The investigation into Osama Atar's case is continuing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u84	Mr. Chairman, I am satisfied with the minister's response. With the reservations of practice, it seems to indicate that Osama Atar has died and, importantly, that the judicial investigation is continuing. It is essential to continue to try to shed light on this dark affair.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u85	Minister, last December, in response to my questions, you told me that you would have some answers in February. It is late February and I am concerned that you will not agree on the breach of the concession agreement between the ASBL for the management of the Great Mosque of Brussels (GMB) and the Belgian Government. What's your status? Why have you still not meant the breach of this agreement? It has been more than four months since the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry issued its recommendations, of which one, major, has not yet been implemented. When will this convention be broken? If so, what are the difficulties encountered? What are the prospects for the old and new managers of this building, the broken contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u86	Mr Dallemagne, in March 2017, I met with the Secretary General of the World Islamic League to discuss specifically the Islamic and Cultural Centre of Belgium, linked to this League. During the interview, I informed the representative of the institution that Belgium would not hesitate, if necessary, to withdraw the emphyteotic lease from the Great Mosque at the Islamic and Cultural Centre. Following the tabling of its final recommendations by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, I, together with my colleague from Foreign Affairs, ensured that a delegation of senior officials and experts from Justice and Foreign Affairs personally explained these recommendations to the Secretary-General and the Director of the Islamic and Cultural Centre of Belgium, as well as to the Saudi authorities, at the beginning of November 2017. Since then, and on the initiative of my cabinet, intensive consultations have been held on this issue between the offices of the Prime Minister, Foreign Affairs, the Interior and Justice. The termination of the emphyteotic lease is a responsibility of the competent minister for the Régie des Bâtiments. As Minister of Justice of the government, it is up to me to decide on the follow-up of the Great Mosque file. The prospects for future managers of the Great Mosque must be in line with the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, namely the elaboration of a new convention, with a new entity, that the centre of gravity of the management of the GMB be located in Belgium and that the mosque seek recognition from the Brussels-Capital Region. Furthermore, the commission of inquiry has repeatedly stated that the aim is in no way to prevent the Muslim community from having an emblematic place of worship. The Council of Ministers will discuss next week the proposals that respond to these recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u87	Minister, you are not quite answering my question. For the sake of understanding: does this mean that next week a proposal to break the Convention is on the agenda of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u88	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u89	It's still a little unpleasant. I'm just asking you this question: what's blocking, what's bothering, when are we gonna get it? And you're not answering. You're telling me things I already know elsewhere. You've got a lot to do with it. But on my own question, you're not answering.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u90	Minister, I have a question about the systematic practice of forensic examination in cases of violent or unexpected death. According to article 44 of the Code of Criminal Investigation, "if it is a violent death or a death whose cause is unknown and suspect, the King's prosecutor will be assisted by one or two doctors who will report on the causes of death and the state of the corpse". This legal framework is broad and leaves the King's prosecutor an important margin of discretion as to whether to appoint a doctor. In addition, there is no requirement for the designated physician to have forensic training. However, both forensic doctors and general practitioners recognize this: strong forensic training is needed to effectively assess the circumstances of a death and to detect unusual elements or reports of a third party's intervention. According to some studies, only about 1% of deaths would be autopsyed in Belgium, compared with 4% in France and 8% in Germany. The small number of autopsyes carried out in our country would mean that one in two murders would not really be detected. While it is obviously difficult to carry out such an assessment, the large number of exhumations carried out in our country seems to indicate that, in a number of cases, the procedure followed in the event of death is insufficient. This is why some actors in the judicial world advocate for a systematic examination of the body by a forensic doctor or a physician trained in forensic medicine, in case of violent or unexpected death. Bills have already been tabled on this subject in the past, notably by my colleagues Brochi and Defraigne. Minister, do you confirm the figures concerning the proportion of autopsyes carried out in Belgium? On the basis of what criteria does the King's prosecutor decide today to appoint a doctor or to have an autopsy performed in case of violent or suspicious death? Are there different practices depending on the public prosecutor's office? If so, how could these practices be harmonized? According to your office, a scenario is followed by the judicial services, i.e. the "murder" scenario, in order to ensure better detection of crimes by the judicial services. Can you give us more information about this? What is this scenario? Finally, what do you think of the suggestions for systematic examination by a physician trained in forensic medicine in case of violent or suspicious death?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u91	Mr President, the police and justice are obviously only involved when a death is reported to them. In the majority of cases, about 200 per year in Belgium, it is directly apparent that there is a death whose cause is not natural. In the event of such suspicious deaths, the prosecutor directs the police authorities to carry out an initial investigation and to preserve the traces. These are specialized police services such as forensic and technical police labs as well as research. In addition, a medical examiner is appointed and first performs an external on-site analysis. On the basis of this analysis and other circumstances, it is decided whether or not to conduct an internal autopsy. In cases of violence by a third party, the prosecutor will immediately request judicial investigation from the investigating judge. Scientific studies conducted abroad show that there are, in fact, voluntary homicides that are never discovered. This dark number of undetected homicides is mostly due to an initial misappraisal of death. When a body is discovered, the following two filters are applied: the family doctor records the death or the front line police, if notified. The 2008-2011 National Security Plan takes a more intensive and qualitative approach to violent crimes, in particular murder and homicide, in order to improve and standardize the quality of treatment of this type of serious and traumatic crime for victims. For example, the multidisciplinary working group "Suspicious death", composed of representatives of the police, magistrates and experts, developed guidelines at the end of 2008 aimed at improving and standardizing the quality of the processing of investigations. The spring circular provides for a full option approach, consisting of three pillars, a technical pillar, a tactical pillar and a forensic pillar, in the event of suspicious deaths. I will also give you some figures. During 2016-17, the approach to abnormal deaths in the Limburg district led to 565 raids in three pillars: laboratory, forensic physician and tactical investigators. This specialized approach has led to the elucidation of four murders that probably would not have been recognized as such before.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u92	Minister, legal cohabitation is currently governed by Title Vbis of the Civil Code. Article 1476 of the Code stipulates that the declaration of legal cohabitation must be given to the registrar in writing and that the two residents must be signed in writing. A difficulty may arise when a person is prevented, for physical reasons, from signing the declaration of legal cohabitation, when he or she is fully able to give his or her consent. It would appear that, in practice, there is uncertainty as to how to resolve such a situation. In other procedures, alternative formalities have been provided for. Thus, article 39 of the Civil Code relating to civil status documents states that in a situation where a party is unable to sign, the registrar will mention the cause that will prevent the party(s) from signing. In notarial matters, the Ventôse Law provides that the notary will have recourse, for notarial acts, to two witnesses when the signatory is not in a position to sign. Minister, in order to clarify the practice, I would like to ask you the following questions. If one of the cohabitants is unable to sign the declaration of legal cohabitation, what is the procedure to be followed? Can the registrar record the declaration in the population register? If so, what alternative formality may replace the signature of one of the parties?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u93	Mr Goffin, the law does not regulate the hypothesis that a candidate for legal cohabitation is mentally and physically incapable of signing the declaration of legal cohabitation, even though the establishment of legal cohabitation is linked to the signature of this document. However, persons who are not physically able to sign the declaration are entitled to enter into legal cohabitation. Pending the adoption of a specific legal framework, the registrar could ensure that he can see both the impossibility of signing and the willingness of the parties to live together. This could be done by attaching to the declaration a medical certificate which would attest to his physical inability to sign or a report in which the registrar found that he was incapacitated. In addition, the registrar could summon the parties to appear at the time of the declaration to ensure that the parties' willingness to cohabit is effective despite the impossibility of signing. If the registrar found the physical impossibility of one of the candidates to sign, ascertained the willingness of the parties to enter into legal cohabitation and verified that the parties met the legal conditions, he could refer to legal cohabitation in the population register. The problem of the physical impossibility of signing a declaration of legal cohabitation is currently being discussed in the working group which is preparing the reform of legislation on legal cohabitation. Without pre-empting the conclusions of this working group, the previous draft can therefore be an intermediate solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u94	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-28-54-commissie-ic829x.u95	My question number 23770 is transformed into a written question. Questions No 23934 by Mr Peter Dedecker, No 23584 and No 23585 by Mr Kristof Calvo are deleted.
