ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u1	Minister, the MFO-2 ministerial circular regulates the so-called HyCap system or the support that police zones provide to each other in the maintenance of large-scale events, such as football matches, festivals and European summits. The HyCap assignments are distributed and assigned by the DAO Department of Federal Police. In the meantime, the figures on providing support by each police area circulate in political circles during the year 2017. However, I note some peculiar imbalances. For example, the different figures in the provinces show that local police services in the south of the country are being questioned much less, and the differences are very large. In 2017, the police zones of the provinces of East and West Flanders delivered 99 percent and 98 percent of their mortgaged capacity respectively. These high figures are, of course, at the expense of police deployment in their local security services. The Walloon provinces show a different picture. For example, the province of Namur delivered only 57 percent, Walloon Brabant 47 percent and Hainaut 43 percent of what could be requested. Even the six major Brussels police zones remained significantly below the national average of 73% by 54 percent. Now I can imagine that in Flanders, for example, due to the many football matches in the Pro League that are taking place, there is a need for more mutual support, but I still have a few questions, Minister. Why are we no longer calling on police areas from the south of the country for law enforcement services in Brussels, such as at the European summits, to restore some balance? I do not believe that the language role of policemen in an order service is relevant to the commitment in the Brussels-Capital Region. How do you explain the imbalance over the mortgaged capacity, as I have just outlined? How do you plan to achieve a more proportionate distribution in the year 2018? I hear from the press that no less than 3,500 police officers will be deployed for the visit of US President Trump on 11 July. Will there be a better balance in the support provided by police areas from the north and south of the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u2	Mrs Lambrecht, the HyCap mechanism is a mandatory system of national solidarity between police zones for carrying out large-scale tasks of administrative police for which a single police zone cannot itself be responsible. Each police area should contribute to the system according to a certain percentage of its own capacity. The extent to which the different police areas rely on the HyCap mechanism varies enormously. The organisation of events, demonstrations, festivities and sporting events is not characterised by an equal geographical distribution between the different provinces or regions of the country. A very typical example of this is the Belgian football competition, which unfortunately still requires a huge effort because of the police forces in 2018. For the current season 2017-2018, no less than eleven of the sixteen clubs from the highest division come from Flanders. This imbalance is, in turn, compounded by the extent to which the various police areas concerned call for reinforcements. For example, the Bruges police zone requires twice as many reinforcements as, for example, the Liège police zone for a Standard match. All this results in huge differences between the provinces. Let us take the example of West Flanders, a province that is undoubtedly close to your heart. In the period 2016-2017, the police zones from West Flanders received a total of 190 876 performance hours of reinforcements from the HyCap mechanism, while contributing a total of 133 950 hours. For example, for the province of Luxembourg, this gives a reverse view. They received 14 777 hours from the mechanism and contributed to it for 23 028 hours. Mainly the language regime but also a certain efficiency of commitment is a serious obstacle to eliminating the differences between the different provinces in terms of contributions to the HyCap system. As you rightly suggest, police zones in the Brussels region can be strengthened from different language systems and so the use in Brussels can be used to eliminate differences between Flanders and Wallonia. However, this is already happening. That is why, for example, the province of Namur contributes almost twice as much to the system than it decreases out of it. The contribution rates are one aspect, the percentages obtained from the HyCap system are another aspect. Actually, we should make the net calculation of the two. The federal police, especially DAO, ensure the greatest possible equality in contributions from the different provinces to the HyCap system. However, the context outlined above indicates that this can never be fully balanced between the three regions. Moreover, the figures you quote only reflect the contributions that the cited provinces have actually made to the mechanism. They do not take into account all cases where police zones were designated to contribute and have not done so for justified and unjustified reasons. As far as your third question is concerned, a more balanced burden on the different police areas of the HyCap system is and remains an important focus for me. I've got two runs for that. Firstly, in the implementation of the new MFO-2........................................................................................................................................................................................... However, this capacity allocation will be accompanied by a review of the organisation and operating structure of the CIK. This is in order to orient them more towards their main mission, in particular to carry out public order missions with well-trained and organized units. The CIK should become a full and decisive component of the reserve capacity for public order tasks available to the federal police. As you probably know, Mrs Lambrecht, we are building back the reserve capacity, which was almost zero when I inherited the police organisation from the previous government, and you are not at all unknown; By building the federal reserve, we can do what we have to do with the HyCap, in particular to promote the solidarity mechanisms between the zones and not between the federal level and the zones to which it had become obsolete in the past. Secondly, I am also working on the implementation of the sanction mechanism provided for in the new MFO-2. This works as a fine system that can be applied when the General Inspection finds after examination that a zone has refused to contribute to the HyCap system on a non-justified basis. At the end of the year, the amounts thus withheld will be distributed among the police areas to which the sanction mechanism has not been applied during the same year. This is a double system. It is a sanction for those areas that do not comply with their commitments. It benefits not the state treasury, nor the federal police, but the areas that have fulfilled their commitments. So it's a horizontal distribution. I come to your fourth question. The forthcoming NATO summit on 11 and 12 July will require a large-scale mobilisation of both the federal police and all other police forces in the country. Everyone will therefore have to contribute in solidarity and in large numbers to the police management of this very important event. I am absolutely aware that many 11 July celebrations will take place in at least one part of the country and that the World Cup Football is also in progress. That's also a question for the local police. I don't think a lot of cops will be able to take a vacation. We will really have to do a maximum mobilisation of capacity, both in the federal police and in the local corps.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply and for taking the matter to heart. I'm having trouble with a case, but maybe I didn't get it right. If we look at the figures, we must also take into account the fact that a zone itself has many events. I believe that this can be considered in the future. It is not because one zone is less dynamic that it needs to be less solidarity with the others; it is also not because a dynamic city should show more solidarity, when it is already putting so much energy into the events. Then I have one more question. It could be me, because I'm not fully involved in the matter. Minister, you are talking about a system of penalties for areas which do not comply with their obligations. Is that something new or did it already exist? Or did it already exist but it was not followed that the fines were paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u4	No, there wasn't. That's a new element in the new MFO-2, the new HyCap control. However, the new MFO-2 is very new; we are still developing the modalities and sanctions mechanisms. It is not currently being applied, but it is included in the new HyCap scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u5	Is there a timing? When will it enter into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u6	I can't give you an exact date right now. The intention is to introduce it very quickly, because that will be an incentive for the zones to fulfil their commitments. I'm motivated to realize that as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u7	The oral questions by Mr Degroote (No 24728, 24833, 24881, 24882, 24884 and 25036) are converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 24770 was converted into a written question. Questions Nos 24886 and 25161 by Mr Thiébaut were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u8	Mr President, I have to be in four committees this afternoon, which of course does not help the organisation. I apologize for that. Minister, in the Netherlands there are voices calling for an event data recorder to be required in all cars. An event data recorder, abbreviated EDR, which is already standard in most new cars, records data in seconds just before and during a traffic accident. It could make it much easier to settle the damage and answer the blame. The police will read the data and pass it on to insurance companies. This is nothing new, and insurers are now also given the minutes that are drawn up after an accident. By working with EDR data, people gain tremendously in speed and efficiency. However, different car manufacturers use different software providers, which means that standardisation is needed to achieve effective efficiency. Mr. Secretary, does the federal police use those EDR data when they're available? If so, does the federal police have difficulty in processing the data through different software? If not, what factors prevent its use? What is your view on the use of the EDR data?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u9	Mr President, Mr Klaps, regarding the federal police and the road police in particular, I can tell you that their vehicles are not currently equipped with an EDR system. This may be the case for local police vehicles, but I cannot give you an overall view of this. The federal road police don't read that kind of data on vehicles that have been assigned. I also have to tell you that, so far, no in-depth analysis has been carried out by the federal road police. It is therefore too early to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of such a system. Together with you, I note that technology is becoming more and more performant in this context. So far, the Federal Road Police have not considered it necessary to have such a system in place during the execution of its missions or within its units. The services are following further developments and I do not rule out the possibility of using the system in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u10	Thank you, Minister. Technology is indeed evolving rapidly, especially in the automotive sector. From the moment such systems are available, of course, on condition that they are somewhat standardised, so that it becomes workable, I think they can bring enormous added value. I look forward to a further evaluation of that system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u11	Mr. President, Minister, on March 10, more than 20,000 Federal Highway Police minutes were left behind. In fact, the PVs are accumulating in thousands: for lack of sufficient staff, the caisses are piled up and remain in place and the PVs are thus abandoned in the premises of the Federal Police. The situation would have become unmanageable. The unions explain that these PVs are waiting to be taken care of and sent to bpost who will take care of sending them to the offenders. But they will have received the request for payment with transfer without having received the PV which should normally be sent within 14 days of the finding. There is therefore a risk that there will be a lot of challenges in the court with the risk of dropping the prosecution. The work of the road police would thus be null and void. Mr Minister, the problem remains the same: the federal police do not have sufficient staff! Even CALOG staff expected to save police officers administrative work is insufficient to ensure the dispatch of all these PVs. In the end, if these PVs are contested by the violators, this represents a great loss of profits. Minister, do you know how much the amount of PVs not sent to offenders is? What do you intend to do to fix this situation? Are you moving towards privatization of these services? Or do you intend to hire more staff to solve this problem and try to avoid the accumulation of even more VPs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u12	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the press recently reported that nearly 20,000 reports from the Federal Highway Police were awaiting processing and, therefore, sending them to the various offenders. When questioned by the press, the Free Trade Union of the Civil Service (SLFP) confirmed this information and also pointed out the various consequences of this situation, including a dry loss for the State's finances. It appears that the requests for payment, accompanied by the transfer note, were sent to the persons concerned but did not receive the minutes relating to the finding of the infringement. According to the regulations in force, the minutes must be sent legally within 14 days of the finding, otherwise a waiver of the proceedings may be made in the event of a challenge to the court. Without calling into question the responsibilities of each link in the chain in charge of this treatment, the SLFP preferred to recall the importance of having sufficient living forces within the federal police force to enable them to carry out their missions in the best possible conditions. In this case, an increase in the number of administrative and logistical staff within these units would improve this function. The SLFP also recalled that privatization of the management of fines should be a solution to be considered by the federal government and would address the need for the rationalization of police services. In addition, this approach would, according to the PSS, provide sufficient margins to recruit nearly 3,000 federal police officers upstream. Therefore, do you confirm this information and the delay accumulated by the administrative and logistical services of the Federal Police regarding the processing of the minutes? In addition, does privatisation of the management of fines seem to you to be an option to remedy this problem? Do you feed a thought in this regard? Have you instructed your services to study the appropriateness and impact of such a measure on the functioning of the police services and, if so, what its content is?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that there has been a delay in sending a number of PVs, but the police services concerned are currently working to remove them. However, the quantified amount of PVs of offences not yet sent is not known. I don't know where those numbers come from. As for your questions concerning the possible privatisation of this activity, it is clear that subcontracting of these PVs is not on the agenda. However, at the end of March, my Justice colleague and I announced to the press the launch of the Crossborder Traffic project. In this project, which provides for a wide-ranging digitisation and rationalisation of the process of dealing with contraventions, the sending of these documents is no longer by the police but by the courts; a task which could be outsourced to bpost. In the future, the problem should not be repeated. It thus becomes a completely automated process, the last phase being the bpost sending. This is therefore no longer a burden for the police or for justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u14	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u15	The project is in the final stages. The process will be fully automated. Bpost will thus print the PV and ensure its sending and distribution by the factor. It will no longer be a job for the police and justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u16	I am pleased that this task is not being privatized. You haven't answered my question about recruitment. Do you intend to recruit staff for this service?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u17	No, because we make the choice of automating and not staying in this 20th century technology.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u18	When will computerization take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u19	The project is in the final stages. I can't give you a specific date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u20	I'll ask you for accounts very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u21	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. I take note that privatisation is therefore not on the agenda, but that the process of rationalisation and automation is well under way. As you have indicated, there will be less, if not more, responsibility for police and justice, which, hopefully, should free up police personnel for other missions that are obviously needed. Thank you for this interesting piece of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u22	Mr Hellings, do you allow Mr Calomne to ask his two questions after each other and then ask yours? [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u23	Mr President, I thank Mr Hellings for his courtesy. Deputy Prime Minister, the press has relayed the recent publication by the French Institute of International Relations of a study aimed at establishing the ideal-type, in the strict sense of the sociological concept, of the jihadist activist. In practical terms, this project has consisted of producing, through data from around 100 judgements handed down by the courts, an abstract type that helps to understand the problem. Age, gender, social origin, education and career paths are all information that have been processed and compiled to draw up a sketch of the adult person convicted of acts of Islamist terrorism between 2004 and 2017. From this work, it appears that the jihadists are, in the vast majority, 26-year-old men from many and frequently dislocated families. Almost half of them do not have a diploma, have already had a case of justice and, for the most part, have parents from the Maghreb. This type of scientific work is obviously not intended to feed prejudices and amalgams. On the other hand, it could assist the various security, justice and prevention and social support agencies in the conduct of their activities. So, can you tell us if you have a similar study that would have been carried out in our country? If this is not the case, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, do you consider it appropriate to have a comparable tool and, therefore, to entrust it to one or more of our country's higher education actors?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u24	Mr Calomne, the study by the French Institute of International Relations on the ideal-type of the jihadist is certainly interesting and can contribute to better operational monitoring by our services of the phenomenon of early problematic radicalism. A similar study on FTFs in Belgium and a comparison with FTFs in neighbouring countries is also carried out at Belgian universities and institutes, as well as studies on radicalism: the CONRAD study by Belspo, as well as others by KUL, INCC (the National Institute of Forensics and Criminology), or the Egmont Institute. OCAM is also currently working on an environmental analysis of radicalisation in Belgium. The first part is mainly based on a study of literature. It includes a socio-demographic and socio-cultural description of the Muslim community in our country as well as a description of the influential actors in the Belgian Islamist world. It also examines the use of the media by young Muslims in our country, and examines the potential sensitivity to jihadist propaganda. For this sensitivity to propaganda, we do not only use existing literature. An analysis was made of the main themes and narratives appearing in the profiles of Belgian radicalised people aged 14 to 17 on social media. The second part includes a case study of the more than 150 FTFs of category 3, i.e. returns, and category 4, i.e. those whose departure has been prevented. OCAM studies demographic data such as sex, age at departure, home, migration context, socio-economic status, i.e. education and employment at departure, and criminal criminal criminal history of the entire sample. A smaller sample in this group will be examined in more detail. The family situation of these persons, the context of their education, their path of radicalization, the actors influencing their decisions, the possible triggers in the decision-making process and the specific reasons for their departure will be analysed. Assumptions of radicalization will be assessed against observations in the literature and case studies. This will contribute to the representation of security services and prevention actors. Based on the observations and conclusions, recommendations will be made at the various levels in the context of Countering violent extremism. Recommendations will also be made on the basis of the extended study to deepen certain aspects of radicalisation in Belgium. Collaboration with academia and research institutions will then be an option.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u25	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answers. I believe that this type of scientific study can indeed support the security and intelligence services in their fight against terrorism. You have just given us good information about the fight against terrorism and all the means used in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u26	Deputy Prime Minister, according to the former research director of Cambridge Analytica, the company would have, through its digital manipulations, heavily influenced some recent election campaigns and thus the result of several elections, such as the referendum that led to Brexit, the American presidential election or the recent Italian parliamentary elections. Thanks to the serious flaws in Facebook's security protocols, Cambridge Analytica collected mass personal data from citizens in order to analyze, classify and exploit them. The British company has thus carried out behavioural and political profiling of non-applicants for this profiling and ignores this intention. This practice then enabled targeting strategies to be put in place in order to present to an "active" public, tailored fake news that could influence its electoral behaviour. In this way, the exponential spread of conspiracy theories, totally unfounded rumours, and even narratives specifically constructed from all parts and often close to the theories of the extreme and xenophobic right has been rooted. This incredible technique - I confess I am baffled - seeks to meet the buried expectations of voters in order to guide their political choices and those of their loved ones, who are also present on Facebook. However, according to the chairman of the British parliamentary committee on digital technology, Damian Collins, the Russian interference in the referendum that led to Brexit lies precisely in the formation of a network of propagandists ignoring their targeting on Facebook and spreading, against their will, fake news snipers by well-known Russian propaganda bodies, such as RT and Sputnik or many others. In view of the municipal elections of 2018, and above all the general election of 2019, for which you are responsible, what are the preventive measures put in place by the government to deal with the threat of potential digital interference, as observed in Great Britain, the United States and Italy? Has the Federal Police in general - its Computer Crime Unit in particular - implemented measures to prevent the involuntary profiling of Belgian citizens by Cambridge Analytica or any other society working in the same direction? Could you give them some details?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u27	Mr Hellings, for the umpteenth time, my answer relates here to the 2019 federal elections, the local elections of 14 October 2018 being the competence of the regional and community authorities. In addition, this response relates only to the software used in the electoral process and not to the digital dissemination of false information in order to influence citizens. As for the software used in the electoral process, one of the primary and fundamental concerns of my administration is to ensure the reliability and security of electoral software. As a result, the domestic FPS services assess the risk of piracy. In this regard, various processes are in place: - the strengthening of the conditions for external control of electoral software carried out by approved advisory bodies: - the analysis of piracy risks carried out jointly with the companies in charge of electoral software; - the frequent updating of electoral software and its implementation of the security recommendations issued by the College of Experts for Electronic Voting in its report on the elections of 25 May 2014; - implementation of best practices in computer security issued by international institutions, such as the Council of Europe or the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance. However, we need to clarify an important specificity of our electronic voting material. It does not have any hard drive, it cannot store a software transmitted via digital interference. It is also important to stress that voting computers in offices in Belgium are not connected to the Internet. In fact, the five computers in a polling station are not connected to each other, nor are they connected to the computer of the president of the office. So all these computers are in standalone. Similarly, the Inland FPS computer used to create and duplicate USB keys containing the voting software is also not connected to the Internet. All this procedure is therefore carried out in a vacuum compared to the internet, since physical access to the area of creation and duplication of USB keys is themselves limited to certain authorized agents of the Inland FPS. With regard to the security of voting software, procedures are in place. I think, for example, of the important role of the College of Experts on the subject. Automatic internal controls of the software are also organised in order to verify the consistency of the votes at each stage of the electoral procedure. The services of the Inland FPS also evaluate the implementation of new types of controls in the light of technological developments and known experiences elsewhere in the world. With regard to the security of electoral results transmission software on election night, a public procurement contract was awarded for the development of a new electoral system, jointly by the Internal SPF and the federal electoral entities. This procurement had incorporated high safety standards for the development and programming of this new system. I also asked the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) to conduct a security assessment of this new transmission system. In relation to the CWB's competencies, this new system will be tested for external attacks prior to its use and under real-world conditions. System that, given the joint market with the federated entities, will be used as early as the local elections in October 2018. The CWB will also conduct such an evaluation for the electronic voting systems I mentioned earlier. With regard to your second question, in terms of prevention at this level, it is again the CWB, which falls under the Prime Minister's jurisdiction, which directs operations. The CCUs have therefore not taken any specific measures in this context. As far as the i2/IRU service is concerned, the IRU ensures on its own initiative to suppress extremist and jihadist hate propaganda and to put offline any illegal content when ordered by a magistrate. This service will therefore not proceed autonomously to the deletion of fake news, as this is not within its competence. But he will do so when the fake news is accompanied by a criminal offence and the investigating magistrate orders that the police be removed. These are generally offences such as incitement to discrimination, hatred, violence or segregation, defamation, insult, slander or malicious disclosure. However, i2/IRU participates in a round of meetings organised by the FPS Foreign Affairs within the framework of the strategic communication activities of the European Union. In addition to police and FPS Foreign Affairs, representatives from Justice, Regions, Intelligence, Cabinets and OCAM will also be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u28	Mr.Minister, my question was not at all technical and was not about how electronic voting systems could be protected from an attack. My question was strictly about the new methods of digital interference found in elections in Great Britain, the United States and Italy. And I intend to be able to put this very worrying phenomenon under the government radar, via the CCU, and under the authority of the Prime Minister. I will therefore ask the Prime Minister the same question, at your suggestion. However, it seemed to me that such a major danger, which could have an impact on the organisation of elections and their results, could be under the control of the CCU, under the authority of the federal police; it is very clearly a digital crime: to influence the elections! And the CCU, as I know, is in charge of the fight against digital crimes. If this is a new type of digital crime, with dramatic consequences, we are still negotiating the end of Britain's participation in the European Union, on the basis of an election that has probably, the investigation will say, been rigged. This is not nothing and the Belgian authorities, the federal police and all other coercive means of the State must therefore be used to prevent what happened to our neighbours, friends and allies from happening to us. I confess that your very technical answer to a question that I did not ask would tend to worry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u29	I would first like to say that at the request of Mrs Lahaye-Battheu's collaborator, the combined questions No. Of myself and No 24820 24971 from Mrs Lahaye-Battheu to another meeting were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u30	Mr.President, Deputy Prime Minister, on your initiative, the government had decided that, as of January 1, 2019, the ID card chip would contain the digital fingerprints of two fingers of the cardholder. This measure was then presented as necessary to facilitate the identification of false identity documents. The Privacy Commission recently issued a negative opinion on the draft bill that you submitted to it, calling it "disproportional" and "not in conformity with the Privacy Act". The Commission stated that: "the fingerprinting of the entire population is not an anomalous measure in terms of the protection of the private sphere. It's an intrusive measure." The proceeding that protects our privacy thus invites you to review your copy or to demonstrate the importance of this generalized filing of biometric data essential to the general interest. Could you specify the number of Belgian identity cards, foreign cards and passports in circulation in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 as well as the number of such false documents intercepted for those same years? Basically, I'd like to measure the percentage of fraud. The Commission for the Protection of Privacy is very sceptical about the idea of creating a database, even temporary, of fingerprints of all Belgians and foreigners living on our territory. Could you explain to me how the Inland FPS intended to build this database? Where was she going to be housed? Were cross-references to this database planned with other databases, such as the National General Police Data Bank (NGB)? How will you respond to the fundamental criticisms of the Privacy Commission? What path will you take to bring your draft legislation into line with existing privacy provisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u31	Mr Hellings, statistics on the number of identity cards and "foreigner" cards issued between 2014 and 2017 will be provided to you via an encrypted table. It is important to know that these data are evolving. In 2014, there were 1.3 million eIDs and, in 2017, more than 2 million. For "foreigner" cards, from 400,000 in 2014 to 313,000 in 2017. We will provide you with the exact figures at a later date. With regard to the figures for Belgian passports, I would ask you to ask your question to the Foreign Minister, who is responsible for the matter. The statistics on false passports, false residence permits and false Belgian identity cards from 2014 to 2017 are also shown in the table. These figures are taken from the statistics of the Central Office for the Suppression of Falsees (OCRF) for documents intercepted in the country and from the DAO migration (Directorate of Administrative Police Operations) for those intercepted at the borders. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these figures represent only the documents transmitted to this body, the OCRF. For information purposes, other documents could be intercepted within the country without being communicated to the RFMO. Fingerprints will in no way be stored or centralized in a new permanent database. Temporary registration of so-called "candidate" biometric data, such as fingerprints, in a database hosted by the National Register is made up solely for the manufacture of identity cards, as with any other data on the card and in any event for a maximum of three months. After this period, the draft law specifies that this data must be destroyed and erased from the data bank. No cross-reference of data banks is provided for in the proposed legislation. My intention is to maintain the integration of fingerprints on the ID chip. It is necessary to take the necessary measures to identify individuals as effectively as possible and to strengthen the fight against identity fraud. The Privacy Commission has issued an unfavorable opinion regarding the registration of fingerprints on the ID chip, arguing that such registration would be disproportionate and that comparison with passports is not warranted. Indeed, as the Commission points out, with regard to passports, a specific European regulation requires Member States to collect fingerprints. Electronic ID cards are also a travel document. However, the fact that the identity card already has a biometric element, i.e. the holder's photograph, or that the European eIDAS Regulation does not mention fingerprints among the minimum personal identification data, an argument put forward by the Commission, does not appear to be relevant. It should also be noted in this connection that photography is also not included in the minimum personal identification data listed in the eIDAS Regulation. It goes without saying that the photograph represents an element of identification of the cardholder and therefore of security for the cardholder in Belgium or abroad. My services will carry out a data protection impact assessment and the necessary security measures will be taken. Finally, I would also like to inform you that the European Commission has put forward a proposal for a regulation on 17 April 2018, in order to improve the security features of identity cards for EU citizens and residence permits for family members who are nationals of third countries in order to curb the use of fraudulent documents that terrorists and criminals can use to enter the European Union from a third country, in particular by making biometric data mandatory for countries issuing identity cards. The identity cards of EU citizens over the age of 12 and the residence permit of family members who are nationals of third countries will now contain biometric data, namely fingerprints and facial images, which will be stored on a chip integrated into the documents. The draft law is therefore in line with the recommendations of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will read carefully the documents that you are going to give me so that I can check what is at the heart of all the discussions we have about NRPs and identity cards with regard to proportionality. Proportionality is the question whether it is proportional to collect all personal data, in this case biometric data, from the entire Belgian population in order to combat identity document fraud. It is at the heart of the negative opinion that has been given to you about your draft bill. The Privacy Commission considers this to be disproportionate. To combat identity document fraud, it is not necessary to collect biometric data from all Belgians and foreigners who are legally present in our territory. This is probably the debate that will take place at European level since the European Commission has taken an initiative. It still needs to be discussed with other European bodies, including those that defend privacy, and we will see what happens. I would remind you that as far as the highest judicial bodies in the European Union are concerned, the systematic and indiscriminate collection of data by all passengers or citizens has been recalculated by the Court of Justice of the European Union. This was the case with the famous law and directive data resounding. This is probably what awaits the law and the PNR directive. I do not want to presage the appeal against your PNR law, but it is each time the same mechanism that is attacked, namely the lack of proportionality. I think that is what is going to make this draft bill and the future draft by the European Commission fail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u33	Mr President, Minister, you have repeatedly announced your willingness to reorganize the services and facilities of the Railway Police (SPC). This is about its tasks and tasks, but also about the infrastructure and its operation. In fact, at the end of last year, you held a consultation in this direction in order to avoid adverse social impacts on SPC staff. Minister, what are the priority objectives of the redesign that you want to put in place within the SSC? What further concrete measures are planned to strengthen cooperation between SPC, public transport company security services (STIB, SNCB) and local police? What is the schedule of work set by your services to achieve these objectives? Is further consultation already planned within this framework? How many people (operational or CALOG) are currently part of the SSC? What is the planned increase in staff? Considering the training aspirants and the potential for assignment, what is the reinforcement estimated for the SSC by these new recruits? Given the current projection, have you decided to activate the assignment office designation procedure under IPM 73?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u34	Mr President, Mr Pivin, the three pillars of the priority reform are the updating of legal provisions, the operational implementation of the strategic vision and the adaptation of support processes related to the areas of communication, staff welfare, logistics and computer systems of the Railway Police. Cooperation with privileged partners such as STIB and SNCB is not directly linked to this specialisation, but is carried out on a daily basis and on the basis of risk analyses of events taking place on the specialised field of action of the Railway Police. The identification of priority projects and the timetable for projects to be implemented are being finalized. The consultation will begin with the personnel aspects in May of this year. Currently, the Railway Police consists of 487 personnel. As a result of Mobility 2017/5, the Railway Police recruited six Commissioners, two of whom are subject to regularisation of seconded staff within the Directorate. Five principal inspectors were selected, including one from the regularization of one seconded staff member, and eleven inspectors were recruited, six of whom came from the regularization of seconded staff. Regarding GPI 73, we observe nine candidates for SPC Brussels and one candidate for SPC Antwerp. With regard to IPF 73B, the Federal Police is in the process of proceeding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u35	Minister, thank you for these figures on the number of staff. As far as planning is concerned, I will wait until the consultations have been conducted before asking you about this issue in a more concrete way. I fully share your vision: it takes more on trains than on stations!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I will not present here the history of the procedures in force in recent years concerning the emergency management of public transport and the Brussels metro in the event of an attack or attack. You are fully aware of the situation and the current situation, in particular as a result of the new national emergency plan that you decided in 2016. However, and even though I see that we should not take the information systematically disseminated in the media for money, I was particularly surprised to read in an important French-speaking newspaper that the new procedure of "closing the Brussels metro is not yet clear for everyone". This is information that, perhaps inappropriately, was broadcast a few days before the anniversary date of the attacks was commemorated. Minister, what procedure is currently in place to determine who is competent to decide on the closure of the Brussels metro? Within what time frame would follow the hypothetical event? Who determines the level (regional or federal) of the crisis centre to be set up when an attack or attack occurs? To whom has the new procedure been communicated? Has an assessment of the knowledge of this new procedure been conducted within the federal police and regional administrative services? Finally, have your services received requests for clarification from regional authorities or, possibly, from public undertakings such as STIB in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u37	Mr President, Mr Pivin, the procedure entitled "Follow-up to the attacks of 22 March 2016, improving the flow of information" was formalized by an agreement between the Minister of Mobility and the Minister of the Interior on 27 June 2017. A key point in distinguishing the responsibilities of each of the actors is whether or not the federal emergency phase is triggered by a terrorist threat or attack. During the first moments of the reflex phase, when the federal phase is not yet triggered, initial steps can be taken by the director of the Crisis Centre in consultation with the OCAM and myself. The Brussels-Capital Region is then directly informed of the decisions taken. Subsequently, a coordination meeting is convened by the Director General of the Crisis Centre. In the early stages, the composition of this coordination meeting will be embryonic. Representatives of my office, the Prime Minister and Justice, as well as the OCAM and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office will be present. The tasks assigned to this coordination meeting will be: taking urgent action and other administrative police measures; at the level of strategic communication, the minister present and/or the director general of the Crisis Centre will notify the federal and/or regional authorities; at the level of operational communication, the director general of the Crisis Centre will notify the federal police for the implementation of the decision – the action will be requested by the Crisis Centre to the DAO Federal Police who will notify the competent police services (SPC and/or local police areas) who will contact the mobility operators directly. After the start of the federal phase, the decision will be taken within the management cell at the Crisis Centre and will be forwarded to the operational cell as mentioned in the Royal Decree of 1 May 2016 establishing the national emergency plan for the approach to a terrorist hostage-taking or terrorist attack and, in parallel, to the sectoral cell of the Mobility and Transport FPS as provided for in the Royal Decree of 31 January 2003 laying down the emergency plan for events and crisis situations requiring coordination or management at the national level. This procedure has been operational since August 2017. It was tested during the Terrorism exercise of the Crisis Centre Directorate-General in collaboration with the governors of Liège and Walloon Brabant, which took place on 30 November 2017. In addition, the Mobility and Transport FPS regularly transmits to the Crisis Centre and the Police Services an updated list of Mobility contacts. The procedure was disseminated to the Mobility FPS, which transmitted it to the federal mobility operators. Since this procedure was initially aimed at Brussels metros, it was transmitted to the Brussels-Capital Region. In order to take stock of this procedure, a coordination meeting is planned with STIB and the Brussels-Capital Region in the near future. In addition, in a broader context, it was decided to set up monthly strategic coordination meetings with Brussels Prevention & Security (BPS). Meanwhile, the Crisis Centre has taken the initiative to hold a meeting with the new STIB Director of Security who has been in office for a month. Under this procedure, it is also planned to draw up an inventory with the Walloon Region and the Flemish Region. To date, the Crisis Centre and the Federal Police have 24-hour, 7-day telephone contact information, STIB, De Lijn and TECs, as well as contact information for the air, sea and rail sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u38	Thank you, Minister. That does indeed seem clear. At the same time, I was thinking about listening to your explanations that when the Crisis Centre is regional, the decision to close can be made by the minister-president, but as soon as it changes to the federal government, you will make the decision to close.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u39	No. It's the Federal Crisis Centre, not the regional one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u40	Yes, but for that, of course, STIB must know, for example, that it has moved on to the federal level?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u41	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u42	That seems consistent to me. So you're going to have a coordination with the Region soon in relation to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u43	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u44	That seems a good thing to me. Thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u45	Minister, I was a little late and you were talking about the same subject. I have come to the end and therefore I cannot have heard everything you have told my colleague. We know that the current HyCap solidarity mechanism has failed in recent years to achieve the goal of the most efficient cooperation between the police services. This mechanism, supervised by the Directorate of Operations of the Administrative Police, is obviously essential for support to the police areas, alongside the ICK and the Directorate of Public Security (DAS). On the basis of the final evaluation conducted by the DirCos, and considering the staff of the police areas, could you answer the following few questions? First of all, I would like to point out that my question was tabled before the release of the benefit line for 2018. If you cannot answer, you can answer me in writing. Part of the question relates to figures. Are there any operational changes planned in the coming months? In this context, has a communication been sent to police areas in order to meet the target of 718,687 units? Is a calculation of the average number of personnel intended for the hypothecated capacity of the zones carried out by categories A and B? If so, what is the number for HyCap A and HyCap B? How many times have the CIK and FERES capabilities been called as reinforcements in 2016 and 2017? What are the respective numbers at present? How many requests for activation of the HyCap mechanism were made, and within what time frame, prior to the start of missions, in 2016 and 2017? How many requests for support by corps chiefs were met in 2016 and 2017? How many were considered by the DirCo to be unlegitimate? How many requests for external support to the same district were made and accepted in 2016 and 2017? How many impossibility of HyCap were recorded by the DirCo in 2016 and 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u46	Mr President, my colleague, the HyCap Solidarity Mechanism has been refined and the new MFO-2 Ministerial Directive entered into force on 1 January 2018. The MFO-2 Directive establishes a working group which has the special task of evaluating the use of the benefit line every six months and, where appropriate, of making proposals for adjustment. It is also mandated to make proposals to improve the mechanisms described in the circular. It goes without saying that this work can only be started after a certain period of time has elapsed for the new directive to be put in place. The number of staff who can be applied for on the basis of HyCap solidarity is equivalent to 1.2% of the annual capacity of each police area. Police areas with a minimum standard of less than 75 full-time equivalents perform only negotiated public space management missions (level A) and are classified as HyCap A. Other police areas are classified as HyCap B and are primarily engaged in negotiated public space management missions (level B) and, residually, level A missions. The Federal Police does not have the technical means to answer the question because, for the time being, it does not have a reliable monitoring system for the engagement of the ICK and DAS. However, this is provided for in the new MFO-2 directive and the federal police is working on it. I can tell you, however, that within the Federal Police there is a centralized reserve (the Directorate of Public Security) and a decentralized reserve set up by the various intervention forces (CIKs) in the field of the negotiated management of public space. The Directorate of Public Security also carries out specialized missions using special means. The centralised and decentralised reserve capacity for the negotiated management of the public space is used optimally in order to minimise the use of the HyCap. Annex A of MFO-2 states that the total number of staff is approximately 1,000. The use of delivery lines is used to assess the commitment made under the HyCap mechanism. For the period 2016-2017, this is distributed as follows... I will provide you with the table showing the HyCap reinforcement by borough. With regard to your fifth question, as foreseen in MFO-2, the DirCo evaluates with the local police chief of corps requests for operational support sent to him, taking into account the possibilities and limitations. In 2016, the DirCo refused eight applications and, in 2017, twenty requests for support, because the admissibility threshold was not met. This threshold represents the effort that must be made by a police area with its own personnel before reinforcement can be used. This threshold is set at 12% of the available staff per calendar day. The use of service lines is also used to assess the reinforcement received under the HyCap mechanism. You will receive the table by borough for the period 2016-2017. The number of impossibility of delivering the requested HyCap reinforcement amounted to 148 in 2016 and 381 in 2017. At present, no financial penalties have yet been applied as legislative work is under way. When these are completed, the sanctions will be implemented as set out in MFO-2.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u47	Indeed, I think it is good to have a system of financial restraint. It would be even more constructive not to have to appeal, but if it is necessary...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u48	Minister, in France, in the city of Lyon, two young firefighters have created an application to geo-localize people trained in first aid in order to save lives. This application, currently being tested at the SAMU in Lyon, has the ability, when a person needs emergency relief following a heart condition for example, to appeal, pending the ambulance, to a citizen trained in first aid. This trained citizen could, from the very first minutes, make the necessary vital gestures. The possibilities offered by new technologies, and especially the smartphone, are interesting for some areas and can meet a vital need. Therefore, analysing this possibility seems essential to me because if it succeeds, it could respond in part to a major public health issue. Technically, the 112 centre that manages the dispatch of ambulances could, in parallel, send a signal to the person who is closest to the person in need of urgent care. Minister, are you in favour of such an approach? Do you think that such an application will be technically possible in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u49	Mr Delannois, I would refer you to my colleague Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health, who is competent to answer questions concerning the organisation of emergency medical care from emergency centres 112. There is already a pilot phase with the EVapp application in the municipality of Hoogstraten, which the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health could decide to extend to other municipalities. The EVapp app helps people in cardiac arrest. It locates volunteers in the victim's immediate environment, who receive an alert. If a volunteer agrees to intervene, the gps integrates the guide to the victim's location and to the defibrillators available in the vicinity. The volunteer can thus start a resuscitation pending the arrival of specialized relief.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u50	At the request of Louis Michel, I am accompanied today by an adviser to the President of the Central African Republic to see how our institution works. Minister, it has recently come back to us that an officer of the special units of the federal police had been shot and wounded during a training in Tirlemont. The incident took place during an exercise in which realistic situations were simulated and the officers were using real ammunition. We have since been reassured that the victim's days were no longer in danger. You responded quickly, and I thank you, by affirming your support for the victim and his loved ones. Minister, can you give us more information about this unfortunate accident? What circumstances did they lead to that? Were there any responsibilities that could be identified? Should new precautionary measures be taken to avoid such new developments in the future? Finally, are you aware of the victim's state of health and his or her ability to resume his or her professional activities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u51	This tragic incident occurred during an exercise organized as part of the training of inspectors for intervention and arrest of the management of special units (DSU). During this training, vehicle intervention tactics are, in other words, taught. During this exercise, various scripts provided for armed opposition against intervention services. The trainees had to interpret different roles. For this reason, DSU candidates are equipped with real weapons identical to those they will have to master in a short time during operations in real-life situations. For exercises, weapons should normally be loaded with blank ammunition. During the exercise, a police officer fired at one of his colleagues, playing the role of the armed suspect. It then became apparent that the weapon used to do so was loaded with live ammunition, with the result that the colleague was seriously injured in the back. The exact circumstances as well as the determination of responsibilities are currently the subject of a judicial investigation whose duties have been entrusted by the Prosecutor of the King of Leuven to Committee P. Pending the results of the investigation, exercises with real weapons carried out outside the accredited and fitted out fire pits are suspended. Based on the results of the investigation, the current monitoring procedures and the supervision of the exercises will be reinforced by the application of a double check to prevent such incidents. The victim, treated at the Gasthuisberg University Hospital in Leuven, left intensive care. His hospitalization continues with a view to taking care of him by a specialized revalidation institution. At this stage, it is therefore premature to mention his professional future. I can still confirm that the federal police will do everything they can to support the victim of this tragic accident and will assess with her, in a timely manner, her prospects for a professional future. Next Monday, I'm going to visit our police colleague at the hospital to support her.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u52	Minister, you are close to your police as usual and concerned about its best possible effectiveness. The accident of our colleague hit by a real bullet is unfortunate. I imagine instructions have been given and repeated so that this kind of problem doesn't happen again. You take this incident to the extent of its importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u53	Minister, I am particularly interested in this issue, because I, like you, have a concern about the proximity between the citizen and his police. For several months now, the Marlow Police Area (Watermael-Boitsfort, Uccle, Auderghem) has been offering a new service allowing citizens to ask the police to come and carry out speed checks in a specific area. Since 2015, approximately 150 applications have been registered. As a result, the emphasis can be placed on dangerous situations in certain areas previously unsuspected by the authorities. These controls thus provide the authorities with a precise vision which then allows them to install, if necessary, speed-reduction devices or to review the layout of the space. Minister, what is your opinion on this initiative? Do you consider it appropriate to extend this possibility to other police areas that wish to do so, or even to generalize it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u54	Mr Flahaux, as I said in plenary on 29 October 2015 in response to a question put by Mr Lijnen, this type of initiative, which I obviously support, falls within the competence of the local police areas. In this case, the action "On flashe dans mon rue" is an initiative of the Uccle police zone, Watermael-Boitsfort, Auderghem which exists since July 2015 and is carried out in these three communes of the Brussels Region. For your information, the Marlow area is another area. This participatory radar initiative is intended to stimulate citizen participation in the fight against excessive and/or inappropriate speed. I particularly appreciate and therefore encourage these systems of partnership where the citizen is considered a privileged partner of the police services in the detection and resolution of problems related to security and of which he can become an actor. In concrete terms, by means of active and effective communication, every resident who wishes to do so can submit an application by e-mail via the website or by mail to the police service in order to request a speed control on his or her street. A description of the local problem is requested. Then, depending on the road problem, one or more checks are planned, either via mobile controls, or via the presence of the Lidar or through traffic counts. The results shall be transmitted to the person who made the request and published anonymously on the area's website for information and prevention purposes. Since its launch in 2015, the Uccle Police Area, Watermael-Boitsfort, Alderghem has received nearly 150 requests, which mostly concern areas 30, as well as local traffic within residential areas. In the majority of cases, the police find that speed limits are respected and that problems are related to speed perception. Otherwise, new controls are planned or it is decided that the Lidar will remain in place for a longer period of time. This type of action has also shown that in some cases road improvements should be carried out in order to reduce speed. If signage alone is not enough, controls are certainly necessary. On the other hand, road improvements are sometimes indispensable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I find this kind of philosophy and police actions extremely positive. This is really a synergy between the population and the police. What would be good is that, in the three municipalities, information is disseminated, for example through the Communal Bulletin, to raise awareness among the population. Prevention remains the best solution. It would also be interesting to focus on this kind of action in a publication by the Ministry of the Interior. This would allow other police areas to develop them as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u56	Minister, the Federal Police Job Database is finally available and normally accessible to all. This base is very interesting because it allows us to know in which services and positions staff are lacking and thus to facilitate the work of recruiters. Unfortunately, it appears that this database is unknown to the in-house protagonists. People would find it difficult to apply and find out which positions are actually available. There would therefore be a real lack of information and communication, whereas this database is intended to clarify and simplify applications. Minister, do you confirm this lack of information and the resulting malfunctions? Do you intend to use this database to facilitate applications? Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u57	Mrs Ben Hamou, the database on the jobs to be filled within the Federal Police, better known as the organic table, is available and accessible to all via the Internet and intranet. It is also specified in detail in the internal regulations and accessible via HR services. In addition, information on vacant places, both in mobility and externally, is published on the police intranet. According to the information I receive from the federal police, there is no lack of information or malfunctions that would result. However, one element is not well perceived by all in the field: the federal police do not have the budgetary means to fill all posts. It is therefore necessary to communicate regularly on jobs actually published as vacancies. Several times a year, jobs in the positions actually available are published as vacancies and can be accessed by each member of the integrated police force through calls for mobility on the polDMS platform. Currently, the federal police are developing a HRMB application, which will inform the entire integrated police mobility management process, which is not the case today. For example, the creation of function profiles, applications, the composition of mobility files and the transmission of files will be computerized. This will allow candidates to follow the status of their application. This application will be operational in 2018. In response to your second question, via the traditional communication channels of the integrated police, mobility places and external holidays are available on the integrated police intranet. In addition, a new application, the same HRMob, is being developed. Several bodies and services are already involved in the test phase of the application. It is obvious that when HRMob becomes operational, targeted communications and training will be organized. This application will make it even easier to communicate and monitor vacancies in mobility or externally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers. It's my fault. I forgot to add "end-of-career database". I will not fail to relay to the police all the information you have given me. I've asked so many questions that I forgot to specify the "end of careers" database. It is well available within the federal police but it is a problem internally because people apply for vacant places but have been waiting for six to seven months. I will therefore reword a question with a clear reference to the issue of the end of career.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u59	Mr President, the question is rather short. I asked you before the Easter holidays. This is also the case of a police officer who has read the report of our commission. You confirmed to me in March that the ISLP system was being used by all police services. However, this person told me that this system is not available in all units of the federal police and, in this case, in the Federal Judicial Police. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to know by what tool and procedure violence by and against police officers is recorded for units that do not have the ISLP system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u60	Ms. Ben Hamou, the MISI tool was initially developed for the benefit of users of the ISLP system representing the majority of police officers confronted as perpetrators or victims of acts of violence, i.e. members of the local police and members of the Directorate-General of the Federal Police Administration. This is undoubtedly due to the fact that they are most often in contact with citizens and are called upon to intervene on the front line in case of a problem. The Federal Judicial Police, whose members do not use the ISLP system, operate mainly in the second line or in an integrated arrangement with the local police. Therefore, it did not appear necessary to adapt, initially, the Feedis system used by the Federal Judicial Police. This does not mean that such violence is not recorded. Existing procedures remain applicable and minutes may be drawn up. This information is also available in the BNG, but it is true that the whole range of violence is not currently taken into account for these units. In any case, it is important that members of the judicial police should also be able to report violence against them. Regardless of the seriousness or the drafting of a report, violence against law enforcement officials is unacceptable. Depending on the findings of the upcoming evaluation of the use of the MISI tool, it is possible that the Feedis tool could be adapted. This need is part of the process of setting priorities for the development of the Information Directorate and the ICT resources of the Federal Police. The long-term solution is an integrated recording system in iPolice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u62	Minister, in 2009, Belgium ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Through this strong gesture, all levels of government have committed themselves to developing regulations and measures in all areas that are conducive to the integration of persons with disabilities. It is in this context that I am responding to a concern already raised in the Brussels Parliament by a Socialist colleague with regard to the adaptation of the disaster plan, which depends on your federal powers. Indeed, persons with disabilities are among the first victims in the event of disasters and political power must be able to integrate and anticipate this reality. Minister, are persons with disabilities taken into account in emergency response procedures under the disaster plan? If not, do you intend to analyse the situation and propose an adaptation of the disaster plan? Is mandistreaming correctly applied with regard to measures relating to the security of citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u63	Mrs Ben Hamou, in the context of emergency planning, special attention is paid to vulnerable people, including persons with disabilities. Here is a non-exhaustive list of concrete examples. Each year, the Crisis Centre organizes a meeting with those responsible for hearing and blind people. It aims to organise a communication adapted to this target audience and helps to identify a number of good practices that we aim to use in our communication. Via BE-Alert, people can indicate that they are hard of hearing in order to receive alert messages in writing. During the attacks of 22 March 2016, a solution was also found for hearing impaired people so that they could also call the information numbers through a sign language interpreter. As regards nuclear risks, the Royal Decree of 1 March 2018 establishing the nuclear and radiological emergency plan for the Belgian territory provides that those responsible for institutions hosting vulnerable persons (crèches, schools, elderly persons, mentally and physically disabled persons, sick persons staying in hospitals and health homes, detainees, etc.) In a nuclear emergency planning area, an internal emergency plan must be submitted to the provincial governor, including the organization and specific evacuation needs. On the basis of this obligation already included in the previous nuclear emergency plan, the federal services of the Governor of Liège, together with the ministers responsible for these persons, have drawn up a framework for the attention of the officials of these institutions located in the emergency planning area of the Tihange nuclear power plant. An analysis will be carried out to determine whether, on the basis of the new national emergency plan, an adaptation of the outline is necessary. In the general emergency plan of Limburg, special attention is paid to the evacuation of persons who have difficulty in moving: elderly persons, persons with reduced mobility or sleeping conditions. The governors of Antwerp and Limburg have a specific procedure for guide dogs for the blind, allowing, among other things, that they continue to accompany their master in case of evacuation to a reception centre. The governor of the province of Namur provides for the automatic establishment of rendezvous points for the evacuation of persons with reduced mobility. Finally, in the event of an emergency, the mayor of Antwerp provides for SMS alerts for people with hearing impairments, evacuation places for people with reduced mobility and the use of pictograms for illiterates.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u64	Minister, thank you. I understand that applications and plans already exist and that they are one of your priorities. Indeed, the safety of people with reduced mobility deserves special attention on our part.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u65	Then there are two questions left, and that's mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u66	Minister, during the week of security, on 16 October 2017, I had the honour to make some visits to companies that are members of Comeos. You yourself made similar visits to Comeos. Among other things, I was briefed on camera surveillance at Carrefour. I was also informed about the shoplifting that they are often confronted with and of the thieves who strike organized in different places, not only by thefts, but also by burglaries and even armed robberies. In the meantime, Comeos has set up a cooperation with the police by setting up a Commerce Information Network (COMIN). This is a secure computer application where traders can share information with the competent police services. The advantage of this is that the information on similar facts is shared with several police zones. A pilot project with 10 members of Comeos has been running since May 2016. This led to 264 reports covering more than 2 000 facts. 69 % of these concerned organized shoplifting, 10 % concerned suspicious acts, 9 % burglaries, 4 % armed robberies and 4 % other cases. I have the following questions, Minister. First of all, are all local police zones involved in the Commerce Information Network? Which one did and which one didn't? What's the reason why they're connected or not connected? Secondly, how do you evaluate the cooperation between Comeos and the police? Did the system ensure that there was a faster clarification and that perpetrators were found more quickly? Thirdly, how can the awareness and use of this Commerce Information Network be strengthened? Fourthly, will companies which are not members of Comeos be able to join this network in the future? Have any discussions been held on the possible conditions? Fifth, do there exist similar structural partnerships with other companies or associations of companies which are not members of Comeos, such as UNIZO, Voka, Agoria, VBO or others? Sixthly, what do you think of Comeos' request to establish a federal consultative body between the police and the trade sector for the follow-up to national retail crime?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u67	Mr Vermeulen, I can tell you that questions 3 to 5 fall within the competence of my colleague for Economics and Work, Mr Peeters. I can answer the other questions. The network is still in a test phase and has not yet been opened to all police areas or services for this reason. A number of technical matters still need to be clarified before a general application can be made. Currently, the police zones of Bruges, Ostend, Turnhout, Antwerp, Ghent, the Houtse and Brussels capitals of Ixelles have access. In addition, the FGP of Hasselt, the SPC of Brussels, as well as all CICAs, the information intersections for all areas of the relevant arrondissement. The test phase shows that the platform can bear fruit. However, it requires a decent investment in time and resources. It will therefore be the corps themselves that decide whether they are entering the project and what capacity they can or would like to invest in it, taking into account the priorities imposed by their respective authorities. The first evaluations show that the application contributes to more efficient knowledge of the facts, to link different facts to the same offender, to help identify the perpetrators and to demonstrate that they are organised gangs. As far as your sixth question is concerned, shoplifting is responsible for a major economic disadvantage. The sector estimates the damage at around EUR 1 billion per year. The losses are compensated by traders by accounting for these costs in the prices of the products. In order to step up the approach of this kind of shoplifting, consultation between local and federal police forces is essential in order to achieve a clear division of labour. After all, the individual shoplifters are usually handled by local detective services, while organised thefts are investigated mainly by federal detectives by robbing groups, a priority in the national security plan. At that time there is already occasional consultation, but this is mainly at the operational and tactical level and without input from the sector. The adoption of preventive and administrative measures can also contribute to a better approach to the phenomenon. For this purpose, the focus is on local authorities and the sector itself. Ideally, these measures, like those of the police and the judiciary, derive from the same vision. For this reason, there certainly seems to be room for a consultative structure where the police, local and federal authorities, administrative authorities, justice and the sector themselves are represented. Achieving a vision shared and supported by all parties concerned and the availability of the necessary resources are, of course, critical factors of success for the success of such a consultation body.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your full answer. I will re-table the questions you could not answer in order to be answered by Minister Peeters. The matter seems interesting enough to me to work on it. I understand very clearly from your answer that, on the one hand, the loss for the companies - you mention the figure of EUR 1 billion - is particularly high. Of course, we will not solve everything with an information network or anything else. On the other hand, fighting this type of crime requires heavy investment, both in resources and capacity and time. You have said that it can bear fruit, but it will not be easy. I've heard some interesting things. I will have to reread your answer in order to look specifically at which areas are effectively involved, so that I know what further questions we need to ask about this issue, which is very close to my heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u69	Mr President, nationality is one of the legal data contained in Article 3 (1) and (2) of the Act of 8 August 1983. The different parts of a legal information given are called information types. These types of information were clarified in the Royal Decrees of 8 January 2006, 22 January 2007, 27 January 2008, 9 May 2008, 21 July 2014 and 23 November 2014. If someone has only one nationality, this is quite simple. Article 386, first and second paragraphs, of the Law of 27 December 2006 laying down various provisions, published in the Belgian Official Journal of 28 December 2006, introduced the rule of multiple nationality in respect of Belgian nationals who have voluntarily acquired the nationality of a State which is not a party to the Convention of the Council of Europe of 6 May 1963. A new amendment of the law allowed every Belgian to acquire, on a voluntary basis, the nationality of any other country since 28 April 2008, while maintaining Belgian nationality. The opposite is also the case. Several foreigners have the possibility to acquire Belgian nationality, for example through naturalisation. On 9 April 2018, Eurostat announced that 31 935 people acquired Belgian nationality in 2016, an increase of 18% compared to 2015. The largest group was then Moroccans with twelve and a half percent. The website of the FPS Justice lists three categories. Firstly, Belgians who have a foreign nationality by law. These categories include, for example, children from mixed marriages who, at birth, have both the nationality of their Belgian parent and the foreign nationality of the other parent. Secondly, Belgians who, since the introduction of the possibility of dual nationality as from 9 June 2007, by the Act of 27 December 2006, no longer lose Belgian nationality as a result of the voluntary acquisition of a foreign nationality. Thirdly, foreigners who have voluntarily acquired Belgian nationality and who retain their original nationality. I'm coming to your jurisdiction now. The National Register shall not contain any information relating to the dual nationality of persons who have acquired Belgian citizenship. In the history of their file, their former nationalities are kept. Multiple-year-old Belgians who have acquired a new nationality must have this additional nationality included in the National Register under information type IT032 on the basis of the Royal Decree of 8 January 2006. Therefore, there seems to be more administrative obligations for Belgians who voluntarily acquire a different nationality than for foreigners who acquire a Belgian nationality. Senator Martine Taelman van Open Vld asked in a written question No. However, 47242 of 17 March 2010, which was never answered, or the possibility of registering its other nationality, is sufficiently known to Belgian nationals and municipal services. Shouldn't it be mandatory to get a better picture of our people? Are there no other tools available for this? Due to the different migration movements, asylum, regularisation, family reunification, etc. in recent decades and the possibility of obtaining Belgian nationality afterwards, the proportion of the population with multiple nationality has increased considerably. As a result, information on that multiple nationality is becoming increasingly relevant. That is why I have a number of questions. Firstly, do you confirm that the National Register imposes more administrative obligations on Belgians who voluntarily acquire nationality than on foreigners who acquire Belgian nationality? Secondly, I suspect that the registration of other nationalities is rather rare because this possibility is not sufficiently known to Belgian nationals and to municipal services. Thirdly, would it not be useful to oblige every Belgian to show his other nationalities, whether through the National Register or not, in order to get a better picture of our people? Fourthly, the procedure for granting nationality through naturalisation or the declaration of nationality already provides for a number of mandatory opinions. I myself am a member of the Committee on Naturalizations, just like Mrs Ben Hamou. There are mandatory advice from the public prosecutor and from the security of the State for each file. At the time of granting Belgian nationality, the other nationality is known to the Belgian government. What then prevents that nationality from being mentioned immediately as double or multiple nationality? Fifthly, do you think it would be desirable to draw up a royal decree which also provides for a type of information on the multiple nationality of persons who have voluntarily acquired Belgian nationality? Sixth, some children are born in another country, where the ius terra applies. Other children are given the nationality of a country because of the nationality of the parents. Do you think it would be useful and desirable for a royal decree to be drawn up which also provides for an information type on the multiple nationality of Belgians who, by birth or other reason, have acquired another nationality? Finally, I would not like to ask for figures through an oral question, but could you possibly provide statistics on the number of Belgians registered in the last five years because they have voluntarily acquired another nationality, possibly figures per year and by other nationality?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u70	Mr Vermeulen, before answering your questions, I would like to point out that both the various aspects of Belgian nationality and those of international private law on foreign nationalities are in fact the responsibility of Mr Koen Geens. In reply to your first question, in the case of a citizen of a foreign nationality acquiring Belgian nationality, that foreign nationality has already been registered in the National Register. That's information type 031. In the case of registration of Belgian nationality, there is therefore no need to do anything about the registration of that foreign nationality. It remains unchanged in the history. In the case of a citizen of Belgian nationality acquiring a foreign nationality, this foreign nationality is registered only on a voluntary basis in the National Register. That's information type 032, and there's no administrative obligation. In reply to your second question, there are no objective data available to confirm or refute your suspicion. Your third question. On the one hand, it seems to be out of proportion to the citizen with Belgian nationality who acquires a foreign nationality to report this in order to register it in the National Register. That's information type 032. On the other hand, it is very difficult to verify that. At present, there are no plans to oblige every Belgian to make known his or her possible other nationalities. In reply to your fourth question, as a Belgian government, we cannot determine whether a citizen who acquires Belgian nationality retains his previous nationality. This depends on the applicable national legislation. The previous nationality or, where appropriate, refugee status or recognition as patriotic remains in the type of information 031 on nationality. The authorities in need of this in the context of their mission may request authorisation to consult the history of the nationality data. Your fifth and sixth questions stem from your third question. As for your seventh question, I will provide you with a detailed overview of the Belgians for whom an IT 032 was registered in 2013-2017, broken down by nationality. This survey shows that a total of 1 578 Belgians registered an IT 032 during these 5 years. The number always circles around 300 a year. The second annex, with the additional condition of the current registration in a Belgian municipality, shows the same observation. On 16 April it appeared that of the 1 578 citizens mentioned above, only 62 were registered in a Belgian municipality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u71	Of course, Minister, it is well known that the case of nationality is a matter for the Minister of Justice. It is also well known that our party still has some difficulties in dealing with dual nationalities. We are not very much in favour of this, but at the same time we know that we do not have an immediate solution for change. Several questions and legislative proposals have already been circulated on this subject and more discussions and public statements have already taken place. I like transparency. I therefore want to get as many as possible into the National Register. People with a foreign nationality or people who apply another nationality which they may have, but what we cannot verify, however, are difficult to oblige us to report each time. The picture would be as correct as possible and not just on the basis of voluntary declarations. I will wait for your figures and see what we can do with them when we receive them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u72	(...) [[microphone not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-25-54-commissie-ic880x.u73	That's perfect.
