ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are taking up our work, although all the questioners, for example Mrs Gerkens, are not yet here. Maybe they'll come in the course of the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u2	Mr President, Minister, several SPF satellite offices have been established in different cities in Belgium since 2017. They represent a few hundred decentralized posts, allowing workers to be closer to their workplace. In one speech, your colleague and Minister Steven Vandeput indicated that, for the time being, there was no satellite office in Tournai, whereas the FPS Finances had originally proposed this place. Could you give me more details on this answer? Why was the location chosen by the FPS Finances in Tournai not chosen for the installation of a satellite office? Finally, will Tournai be the subject of a new feasibility study for the establishment of these satellite offices?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I would also like to ask you about the establishment of new shared workplaces, with a view to achieving a better balance between the private and professional lives of agents, which is a very good initiative. According to my information, 15 sites opened last May throughout the country and will welcome the agents of all FPS. However, unfortunately and once again, no office has been planned for the Walloon Brabant province. I have therefore recently asked your colleague in the Civil Service about this. In particular, he specified that you and Mrs. Demir are both co-managing this case. When I interviewed Mr Vandeput, I expressed my astonishment and disappointment at the absence of a decentralized office in Walloon Brabant. Indeed, the Walloon Brabant Province has acquired new offices and has been available to house, among other things, this new satellite office. Mr Minister, your colleague Mr Vandeput said that you were studying, together with the Régie des Bâtiments, the possibility of creating an antenna in Walloon Brabant? Do you confirm this information? Are there any concrete leads on the table? If so, can you say more? Can we hope for the forthcoming opening of a new decentralized office in Walloon Brabant?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of satellite offices, I can confirm that I have found a place in Walloon Brabant to set up satellite offices there. More specifically, it is a building in Nivelles, in which a service of the Régie des Bâtiments is housed. The goal is to provide four workstations as well as a meeting table for six people. We are currently negotiating with Belnet to install a wifi connection as quickly as possible. Once the furniture has been delivered and the wifi connection is available, we will announce the opening of the office to federal public servants via fedweb. The location of the satellite office in Tournai was studied, but was not retained because of the space available and limited in the buildings managed by the Régie on site. However, an alternative solution was chosen at Ath. In the future, we will be able to consider whether it may be interesting to provide an office in Tournai. Based on the results of the occupancy rate during the pilot phase, we will see in which satellite office we will need to increase capacity and in which city we will need to provide additional satellite offices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u5	Minister, thank you. I'm a little sorry to see that the Walloon Brabant counts more than Tournai. I don't know why, but I'll think about it. I am also happy for my colleague Crusnière, whom I congratulate. On the other hand, I understand that the Régie did not find a building in Tournai. I can always help her, if she wishes, because I have a better knowledge of the city. It is possible to find it, provided you want it. I heard you left a door open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u6	Minister, thank you. You are announcing good news, namely the opening of this office in Nivelles. If possible, I invite you to continue the process, because the Walloon Brabant is in the shape of a banana. There are also many officials on the side of Ottignies and Wavre. I think the province could make available space to also open a decentralized office in the Wavre area. If this is always possible, I invite you to continue the steps in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u7	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, you are planning an extension of the Lantin prison and the Paifve Social Defence Institution. These two establishments are located in the municipality of Juprelle, which has a population of 9,000. Juprelle's college and municipal council met with you to discuss this issue and propose other avenues. The need to undertake work in these establishments is undeniable – and no one disputes it. However, the current project would be to extend the Lantin prison on about eight hectares of good agricultural land, a surplus that has long been reserved for organic farming – an activity that occupies a prominent place in the commune. The sacrifice of these farmlands is difficult to defend, while land in wasteland, which has been sent to you, may very well be suitable. In addition, other solutions are possible and have been explained to you. I am thinking in particular of the expansion of the settlement in Paifve, in order to temporarily transfer the detainees locked in the tower of Lantin, pending its destruction and reconstruction. The municipality of Juprelle already pays a heavy price for the presence of these two establishments on its territory (presence of the police in the event of a strike, CPAS, standard KUL, etc.).). These extensions should not be made again to the detriment of the municipality. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what is the status of the plans to extend these two establishments to Juprelle? What schedule have you planned? Have you considered the other possibilities that have been proposed by the municipal authorities? What constructive solutions can you propose? Could land in waste land belonging to other municipalities accommodate such establishments? Is this possibility being considered? Can you tell me what places were suggested?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u8	Mr de Lamotte, as a preamble, we wish to make it clear that the extension of the prison in Lantin does not consist in its enlargement, but in the construction of an independent prison. This new building must facilitate the demolition of the current prison tower. The future prison, coupled with the one planned in Verviers, will be used to relocate the inmates currently housed in the tower. The Paifve Social Defence Institution is a specialized centre for internees. Since it is entirely under the responsibility of DG PPE, it is therefore registered as a penitentiary institution. A large plot of land is still available to accommodate a 250-seat legal psychiatric centre. It is the project that is planned for the moment. The current facility would no longer house inmates, but would be transformed into a prison for inmates. This project does not therefore correspond to an extension of the current establishment either. The plans for the two projects remain those set out in Masterplan III, i.e. the opening of these establishments at the end of 2022. We would also like to inform you that we have indeed responded positively to the request for the examination of alternative solutions made by the municipal administration of Juprelle and the Conseil de Liège Métropole. On 7 December, we met with its president, Mr Willy Demeyer, accompanied by a delegation of mayors, including Mrs Servais. The purpose of this meeting was to find alternatives to the Lantin and Paifve lands originally provided for in Masterplan III entitled "A detention under humane conditions". A new meeting of the same parties will take place on 1 February in order to move forward as quickly as possible on this issue. The proposal to change the location will also have to be validated by the Council of Ministers. In summary, we are in consultation with local authorities to examine alternatives. If we choose one, I should present it to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I look forward to the meeting on 1 February. We're talking about an alternative land, at the site of the Ans-Rocourt coalfield. Do you confirm that this project is on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u10	Some leads are examined, including the terrain you mention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u11	Does he hold pole position?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u12	At this point, I cannot say that, but this is one of the alternatives studied.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u13	You don't say it, but you don't deny it either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u14	You should be a journalist! I always get these kinds of questions from journalists.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u15	I will follow this file with interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u16	Minister, on October 4, I asked you about the building on Rue du Château and Rue du Rempart in Tournai, which houses the services of the Justice FPS and the Finance FPS. This building belongs to a private one and the rental is paid by the Régie des Bâtiments. Having not received all the information requested, I would like to reword my question. Minister, could you tell me who owns this property? What is the amount paid by the Régie des Bâtiments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u17	Mr Delannois, in addition to the information provided during the commission of 4 October 2017, I can tell you that the owner of the buildings located at the corner of the Château and the Rempart in Tournai is SA S&P Nedim Château-Rempart. The annual rent paid by the Régie des Bâtiments to house the FPS Finance and Justice in the building concerned was €2,323,472.29 in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm surprised because, before that, this building belonged to another company. The rent is exorbitant and I think that when you have a golden egg chicken, you keep it! I'm trying to figure out why that "poil" changed hands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u19	Mr Frédéric, Mrs Jadin being absent, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u20	Mr President, since I did not stay with Mrs Jadin, I do not know what time it will be. But, as Vervietois, we work together in good intelligence. I will therefore keep her informed of the answer. Minister, as you have just mentioned, Masterplan III also provides for the reconstruction of the site of the former prison in Verviers. In fact, a 240-seat prison must be established in 2022. Today, however, demolition work is slowed down by the discovery of soil pollution by lead, zinc and cadmium. Even if these pollutions are not a danger to the population, the soil still needs to be cleared before the new building is built. That seems obvious. The estimated cost is €700,000. Minister, I assume you are fully aware of this situation? At present, it would appear that no budget is foreseen. Will this amount be added to the 2018 extraordinary budget? Can you estimate the additional time that this clean-up will lead to in the work schedule? Are the plans for this new building stopped? If so, are they searchable? If not, how soon can you submit them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u21	Mr President, Mr Frédéric, the pollution discovered on the site of the former prison in Verviers does not constitute a danger to the population. As for the land that will remain on site, no action is required. Nevertheless, in order to best prepare the future construction site, it was decided to evacuate as much as possible. A geometer has been designated to measure land cubing. The market for kidnapping will be published by the end of February. With the publication of the market at the end of February, the land can be evacuated before the start of the construction of the new prison. This, therefore, is in no way a hindrance to the future. The budget for the evacuation of land is planned this year and will be specified as soon as the surveyor determines the cubing of the land. This estimate is expected in the coming weeks. The project will be carried out in the form of a DBFM. The selected private partner will therefore be responsible for the design, construction, financing and maintenance of the building for 25 years. The precise planning will be completed as soon as the private partner is designated and the plans will be completed before the start of the project. Project planning is only possible after the contract has been concluded. Since this has not yet been done, it is impossible, under the given circumstances, to predict when the final plans will be available. Mr President, I also answered Ms Jadin's questions. It will be available to the Commission in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u22	She'll be happy! So that Verviers won't be forgotten, we're not too many. To the east and almost at the border often, it's a bit like Tournai, it's on the other side. Minister, thank you for your answers, which are obviously theoretical. I know the public procurement procedures. So I know we can't see the prison until the partnership is implemented. I'll come back to you in the next few weeks. I asked my question a little late. So I'm not asking you to answer now. But there is a lot of emotion in Verviers, you must know, since the letters of expropriation of a number of houses – eleven or thirteen, I say in memory – have arrived at people's homes. The Régie des Bâtiments has taken steps. We start negotiating with the owners and it creates a lot of movement. At least we'll have to give people a guideline because it's not clear. We talked about December 31, 2018, when people should leave their homes; then, people who go there make other comments. I think it creates a little unnecessary emotion. I didn't hear any opposition. People understand the public interest but they still need to know – let's put ourselves in their place! – if they have to leave their homes in six months, in a year or two.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u23	I can still point out that an information meeting for the riparian population is planned in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u24	Yes, on February 22, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u25	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, to be precise, it is about the city of Torhout. The departure of the remaining staff from the large building on the Burg in Torhout is the final piece of a major reorganisation by the federal government Treasury. The reorganisation was launched at the end of 2014 with the closure of the direct taxes receiving office in the building next to the peace court in the Elisabethlaan in Torhout. Later also the registration office, the register, the VAT control service and the tax control for self-employed persons disappeared. The last staff of the IRS left the building at the Burg in Torhout the month before I asked the question. Nevertheless, the government still rents the property until 2024. As a result of the departure of the staff, the obsolete complex is not likely to be of any use until 2024. Until then, the lease of the federal government runs. The mayor of Torhout, Kristof Audenaert, was told that there are no plans for a new interpretation immediately and that it seems that the building will simply be empty for the next seven years at the expense of the taxpayer. The place risks becoming a place of decay in the middle of the beautiful and cared for city of Torhout. I would like to ask the following questions. What are the plans of the Government of the Buildings with this site in Torhout? Is emptiness until the contract is over, the only alternative? If the site had remained in the government ownership portfolio, what would the financial differences have been with the current situation? What's the cost of the sale-and-lease-back operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u26	Mr Bogaert, the reason for the early departure of the building at the Burg in Torhout, which was hired until 2024, is an accelerated centralisation of the FPS Finance Services. It was, of course, already examined whether the building could not be used as housing for another federal government agency to be housed by the Government of the Buildings. However, the only federal need in Torhout is the peace court. The Government of the Buildings, together with the FPS Justice Department, investigated whether the peace court could not be accommodated in the building on the Burg 28. However, this was not feasible because of the cost of the necessary very radical renovations. Even if the track were feasible, the building would still be heavily understaffed. After all, it is far greater than the needs of a peace court. Since no other interpretation can be given to the building, the Government of the Buildings is currently negotiating an early return with the owner/rentor. Getting out of that situation, of course, would be the best track. An alternative possibility of subletment is also being examined. If the above solutions were not feasible or not feasible, the Buildings Management Board could place the building in vacant position by means of a framework agreement with Interim Property Management, so that the building is checked on a daily basis. This will ensure that decay and possible damage are avoided. However, the dreaded long-term vacancy and decline are unlikely. With regard to the cost of the sale-and-lease-back operation performed, I can give you some figures. The building in question was sold in 2007 for an amount of EUR 2 432 000 and was then rehired for an annual amount of EUR 158 560. With the indexation and maintenance costs of the tenant, the total updated expenditure is net EUR 1 452 432 for the period from 2007 to 2024. However, that is the worst case scenario. It is currently impossible to estimate the amount of early termination compensation as it is the subject of negotiations with the owner. In any event, any reduction in the remaining rental period means a more advantageous scenario for the State. Sub-rentals would also make it possible to limit this expenditure to the amount of sub-rentals charged to the remaining term of the contract. However, it is impossible at this stage to make a final calculation of the total cost of the sale-and-lease-back operation as the parameters that may determine a subsequent destination of the building must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u27	Minister, I assume it will not be easy to get rid of the contract. I haven't seen the contract, but I suppose we're not super strong in that. I note here that in 2007 the government received 2.4 million in cash and that in the meantime 1.4 million has already gone away from rent. We must therefore note that the previous period has already disappeared from the profit of the sale-and-lease-back operation by means of the rent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u28	The rent I mentioned was projected to 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u29	In 2007, 2.4 million were committed in favour of the budget, but 1.4 million of this amount is simply gone until 2024. That means there's a million left. In other words, the building has been cancelled for 1 million net financing costs. Is there any possibility that the mayor will contact your services? After all, if one is open to sub-renting it may be possible for the city of Torhout to rent itself or see if another social objective is eligible. Maybe, even financially speaking, there's a win-win situation for the federal government. Of course, it is a big rent of EUR 158 000, but if it is a cost that will have to be paid, it is socially better to indicate another destination, which makes the taxpayer, perhaps not the federal, but the citizen in Torhout and West Flanders feel that the building is being used. This is a slightly better option than having to pay up to EUR 2024 158 000. If that sum is paid, then I think it would be better to fill it in socially, perhaps with a very mild rent or mild agreement for the city of Torhout.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u30	The mayor's already been in touch with us. We are always willing to look further at what is possible and what is not. The lines between our cell Regie and the mayor are open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u31	(...) If the federal government still pays 158 000 euros a year until the end, then each euro received from the city has won one for the Government of the Buildings. That was my plea.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u32	I understand your plea. The communication channels between the mayor and the Regie are open. We shall see whether we can come to a conclusion and find a reasonable solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u33	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you several times about the construction of the new courthouse in Nivelles. I would like to return to you because it seems that the inauguration of this new courthouse, originally scheduled for 2020, will be delayed. A meeting was scheduled to be held last June to present the plans for the new courthouse, but it was postponed. Meanwhile, security standards have been changed for courthouses. One of the new measures is the single entry for each courthouse. As a result, changes had to be made to the original plan. Minister, what is the status of the procedure? When will the work of the new courthouse begin? Can you give me an idea of when the Nivelles courthouse can be inaugurated?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u34	Mr President, dear colleague, at the end of April 2017, the project manager was informed of the new provisions required by the FPS Justice in the context of the strengthening of the security of public places, following the attacks on Belgian soil in March 2016. The new provisions are as follows: the placement of a security gate at the public entrance of each courthouse. The wing of the planned palace having its own entrance, there is therefore no operating budget to support two security posts with portals and guards. These devices require a complete overhaul of the project in order to limit public access from the only avenue of the Centennial. This option is currently under feasibility study. Given the space released as a result of the new surface standards, the Régie des Bâtiments plans to consolidate other federal services on the same site. To date, the Régie des Bâtiments has not yet had the needs program approved by the Justice FPS. It must be drawn up taking into account the master plan being drawn up by Minister Koen Geens. This programme is essential for the further study and planning of the project. However, once we receive this masterplan and on the basis of similar markets - design and build - we will be able to advance the following planning over a period of 67 months: - sketches and approval by the various SPFs, four months; - preparation of project sheets and procedures for the study phase, seven months; - drafting of the CSC, five months; - procedure for the implementation phase, eight months; - urban planning and environmental permit procedure, three months; - execution of the works, forty months. We can therefore say that the project will be carried out within five to six years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u35	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I understand that because of the new safety standards, the project needs to be reviewed. I now hear that this is a much broader redefinition, with the integration of new services of the Justice FPS. Perhaps this is an added value in terms of synergy? Anyway, I hope so. However, it is indeed regrettable that the announcement of the inauguration for 2020 is now three years behind schedule – a total of five to six years. As you know, Nivelles needs a lot. I will therefore invite the Minister of Justice to inform us as soon as possible of his position on this proposal for synergy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u36	Minister, following the discovery of polluted land in the area of the main building of the Verviers prison, demolition work is slowing down. This project, which began two years ago, will therefore take a serious delay. Your colleague the Minister of Justice committed himself, in his Masterplan III, to progress very quickly in a project to rebuild the prison in Verviers. Minister, what is the status of the demolition of the Verviers prison? What is the budget allocated for the remediation of polluted land on the site? Can the timetable for reconstruction be maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u37	Minister, we combined this question with a question from Mr Frédéric, but it was disconnected from the agenda. Perhaps you could repeat in telegram style the answer you gave to Mr Frédéric, including for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u38	Mrs Jadin, the pollution discovered on the site of the former prison in Verviers does not constitute a danger to the population. For the land that will remain on site, no action is required. However, in order to best prepare the future construction site, it was decided to evacuate as much as possible. A geometer has been designated to measure land cubing. The market for kidnapping will be published by the end of February. This will allow the land to be evacuated prior to the start of the reconstruction project. This, therefore, is in no way a hindrance to the future. The budget for the evacuation of land is planned this year and will be specified as soon as the surveyor determines the cubing of the land. This estimate is expected in the coming weeks. As for the project, it will be carried out in the form of a DBFM. The selected private partner will therefore be responsible for the design, construction, financing and maintenance of the building for 25 years. The precise planning will be completed as soon as the private partner is designated and the plans will be completed before the start of the project. Project planning is only possible after the contract has been concluded. Since this has not yet been done, it is impossible to determine when the final plans will be available. The evacuation of polluted land will therefore not normally influence the planning of the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u39	Mr President, like my colleague, I am reassured by the minister's response and I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u40	Questions Nos 22232 and 23177 by Gautier Calomne are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u41	Mr President, Minister, earlier, the services of the Régie des Bâtiments had the approval to control the electrical installation of the buildings. Could you tell me whether the Régie still has this approval? If not, how long has it been gone and, above all, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u42	Dear colleague, the Régie des Bâtiments is no longer an approved control body for electrical installations since 1 January 2013. For the control of electrical installations in federal buildings, we use a framework contract that has been concluded with a licensed control firm. It was decided to gradually reduce the statutory audit department for several reasons, the first of which is the wish of the Régie des Bâtiments to concentrate on its core business. Carrying out inspection of the facilities is not a fundamental mission of the Régie des Bâtiments. The Régie des Bâtiments is primarily responsible for managing the heritage of the state and the accommodation of federal public services. The second reason is the desire to organise an independent control - one is indeed a judge and a party in this control.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u43	Minister, thank you. You say "judge and go"; I fully agree with you. I had not yet mentioned Tournai in this question and I will get there very quickly. When I see that on the site of the Régie des Bâtiments, the police station in Tournai is mentioned as a great success, I can assure you that I catch buttons! I think it would be wise to remove this reference, for the sake of honesty. Why am I telling you this? When the police station building was built, it was effectively controlled by the Régie des Bâtiments. You said it sometimes, it's hard to be both judge and away. At least ten years ago, the Régie des Bâtiments gave its approval in electrical matters. Five years later, the first revision and "rebelote", the Régie des Bâtiments says that it is always in order and that there is no problem. The only problem is that ten years later, when she is no longer approved and we have to call on someone who is no longer a judge and a party, a whole series of problems are highlighted. So we really wonder if the work has been done well before. Very honestly, I have the answer. Asking the question is almost an answer. I can assure you that regarding all the costs that are related to this, there is only one cuckold, it is the tax-payer of Tournais. I really think there's a very big problem. At this level, I would find it normal that the Régie des Bâtiments could eventually make a proposal to the city of Tournai or in any case to the police zone. It would also be a good thing because it is really a scandal!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u44	Mr President, Minister, I have taken a very careful look at the Court of Auditors' last report and I have taken all my attention to certain points concerning the Régie. As regards the management of the inventory of the State's real estate assets for which the Régie is responsible, the Court of Auditors' report made several observations. First, it appears that the 1971 Act, which explicitly requires an annual transmission of an updated inventory, is not being complied with. In addition, the list of goods does not appear to be sufficiently detailed; important information for correct interpretation is lacking. The Court also found that the description of a complex does not always accurately reflect its content. In addition, some changes are delayed and sometimes misinterpreted. A problem of completeness also appears to arise. The first list drawn up in 1972, starting point of all subsequent lists, seems not to be exhaustive. It is important, however, that this first list be. There are also difficulties in communicating sales, according to the Court of Auditors. The Heritage Services Authority, which is responsible for the sale of real property, would not systematically report on the status of a file. Finally, it appears that the information is not instantly encoded during transfers of property between the Federal State and the Regions. Minister, what steps do you intend to take to improve the control of the inventory process to better ensure the quality, completeness and accuracy of the inventory?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u45	Mr Crusnière, following the remarks made in the Court of Auditors' report, the Régie des Bâtiments has adapted the internal directives on how to identify the assets in its portfolio and has clarified its inventory which it updates annually by providing more details on the assets managed, which offers a more precise view of the assets and to understand the sources of uncertainty raised by the Court of Auditors. In parallel, the Régie des Bâtiments launched a process of coordination with the SPF Finances to validate, in a cross-checking manner, the inventory of buildings under management with the data of the Administration of Heritage Documentation (Cadastre). This exchange allows to validate the data of the Cadastre and those of the Régie. An annual update of this information is now scheduled. In order to clarify the changes that occur in the State's real estate portfolio, the Régie des Bâtiments has opted for a clearer presentation of its annual inventory presented to its responsible minister by taking back separately the assets coming out of the inventory and any corrections. The Court of Auditors' report also dealt with the origin of ownership of property entrusted to the Régie des Bâtiments in management. Not all assets have necessarily been acquired by purchase, and many come from a transfer of responsibilities (Public Works Administration). In order to supplement the purchase and sale documents already available in the Régie's databases, a campaign to scan the transfer orders justifying these transfers is under way; these decrees will be added to the database in the same way as the notarial acts already present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answers and for the various measures that have been taken. It was important for transparency and for the citizen. I hope that the Court of Auditors will now be satisfied. I am pleased that measures have been taken in response to this finding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u47	Mr Minister, I have been asked about this in the Court of Auditors' report. I would therefore like to ask you about the implementation of this law. In accordance with the current law, the Régie is required to draw up its annual accounts by 30 April of the following fiscal year. The Minister of Finance then has until 31 May to transmit them to the Court of Auditors. However, the Court of Auditors' report reveals that the accounts for the years 2015 and 2016 have not yet been drawn up. An interim financial and accounting audit was conducted and a review of the Régie's readiness under the Act of 22 May 2003. The Court transmitted a report containing its decisions and recommendations. Given the delays in the 2015 and 2016 accounts, it is unlikely that the 2017 accounts will be closed in time. However, it is necessary to have the final balance sheet 2017 in order to be able to draw up an initial balance sheet in 2018. The Régie justifies the delay by a structural shortage of staff in the financial service. Minister, what steps do you intend to take to address the backlog of accountability? Do you intend to make new commitments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u48	Mr Crusnière, it is indeed true that the annual accounts for the years 2015 and 2016 have not yet been submitted to the Court of Auditors. That is why, in this context, in autumn 2017, a consultation took place between my firm, the Court of Auditors and the accounting department of the Régie des Bâtiments in order to discuss these delays and to analyse the possibilities of speeding up the processing in the future. I can inform you that the annual accounts for 2015 will be sent to the Court of Auditors at the end of February and that the annual accounts for 2016 will be sent to the Court in March. On the other hand, I can confirm that the preparation of the annual accounts for 2017 has already made good progress. The implementation of a new accounting system is scheduled for 1 January 2019. The Régie des Bâtiments will then have a tool that will allow it to deposit its annual accounts within the statutory time limit. This is an improvement in depth. In order to address the shortage of staff and ensure day-to-day operations, five recruitments were included in the personnel plan approved in 2017. A start-up will take place in February. In addition, four recruitments still require approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answer. Such a delay is, of course, regrettable. Indeed, the 2015 accounts will only be deposited at the end of February, while the 2017 accounts are expected to be closed slowly. I understand that a number of measures are being taken, including the installation of new accounting software and the hiring of staff. I therefore hope that the delay will be eliminated and that this year the time limits laid down by the law will be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u50	Minister, the Babies Act bill has recently been passed unanimously in the United States and now requires that men's toilets in public buildings also be equipped with changing tables. Indeed, many fathers deplore the fact that they have to request access to the toilets reserved for women to change their child. Like mothers, no father should have to worry about finding a suitable place to change his child in a public building. This provision seems to be at first glance anomalous, but is in fact an expression of societal evolution. It meets the expectations of modern families and allows for a division of responsibilities and tasks between parents. Our society must indeed strive for greater gender equality and tolerance of homosexual couples, who are also confronted with such problems. This concern for equality is undeniably linked to the development of health facilities in public infrastructure. Minister, what is your opinion about this initiative in the United States? What about Belgian public buildings? Do you support the development of men's sanitary facilities in public buildings under the Régie? Is there any agreement with your colleague in charge of Equal Opportunities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u51	Mrs Ben Hamou, first of all, I would like to point out that these are areas accessible to the public. Secondly, it seems to me wise to provide separate equipment for the care of babies, apart from men's or ladies' toilets - not only for reasons of hygiene, but also to avoid having to install two suitable spaces to change babies. In new buildings accessible to the public, a separate space for baby care is therefore provided. It will be possible to change them, but also to warm bottles and meals. I'll send you the plans that were used to arrange the baby toilets in the visiting complexes in the new prisons. As I have already indicated, I am not in favour of installing such equipment in the toilet. I have not yet discussed this with the Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities - who is, at the moment, particularly interested in this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u52	Minister, I am pleased to hear you say that this will be part of the new buildings. I was confronted with this problem several weeks ago, since I had a child. This makes it possible to realize the difficulties that can arise in everyday life. If dads could also change their child in the buildings, it would be perfect!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u53	Mr. President, Minister, the justice of peace of Braine-l-l-Alleud has been installed, since 2001, rue de la Légère Water, 92. At that time, that solution had to be provisional. Yet, seventeen years later, the justice services still occupy the building that has become obsolete and inadequate. I know that the Régie has been looking for a structural solution for a long time. A few months ago, you announced that your services were studying the feasibility of arranging the justice of peace in Braine-l-l-Alleud in the premises of the former gendarmerie. At the same time, prospecting was launched in July 2017 for the rental or purchase of a building or the purchase of land. Various sites were visited in October and a decision was expected in November. Minister, can you tell me if a decision has been made for the new building that will ultimately house the justice of peace in Braine-l-Alleud? If so, can you say more? Will any work be done? Finally, in terms of timing, can you give me a date for moving justice services to the new premises?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u54	Mr Crusnière, it appears from the prospect that two buildings proposed for rental meet the needs of justice of peace. A comparison of these two buildings, which also includes the analysis of the option of the renovation of the former gendarmerie, has been carried out and its results must be submitted to the approval of the Strategy department of the Régie des Bâtiments. A priori, we should move towards the choice of a rental. First installation work will have to be carried out. With regard to the deadline, the decision of the DG Strategy and Property Management service is expected in March. If the lease option is validated, from April to August, the first installation work must be determined and budgeted and the lease negotiated. In September, the dossier will be presented to the Council of Ministers with a view to carrying out the first installation work in early 2019. The move could take place in mid-2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u55	Minister, thank you for these clear answers. I am pleased and take note of the fact that, in mid-2019, justice of peace will benefit from a solution. As I said, buildings have become unsanitary and it is necessary, for the comfort of both workers and citizens, to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u56	Mr President, Minister, the infrastructure linked to the security of the prison in Tournai suffers from a staggering lack of resources, whether inside or around the buildings. First, CCTV surveillance is outdated and does not ensure a satisfactory level of vigilance. Your colleague, Minister Koen Geens, himself recognized him when I asked him about the matter last May. Within the prison walls, many cameras are not working, especially at wing C level and new premises to accommodate ADEPPI - permanent educational workshops for prisoners. There is currently no effective video surveillance system. With regard to the monitoring of the vicinity of the prison, the problem is similar. Either the cameras are simply missing, or they don't work anymore. This means that currently there is no way for prison officers to monitor suspicious movements near the enclosure walls. Secondly, perimetric detection at the building level is completely non-existent. Thirdly, the ICP - an integrated command post -, which is connected to the video surveillance device, is absolutely not functional. Very many uncovered cables litter the ground and images from the cameras that appear on the screens are of catastrophic quality. I can assure you, because I've seen them. In addition, half of these screens simply do not work. Fourthly, the lighting park in the vicinity of the prison is defective and needs to be refurbished. In view of the elements that I have just exposed to you, you cannot close your eyes. This is about the security of buildings with an average of more than 200 inmates. I cannot imagine that this prison does not have an infrastructure capable of completely securing the premises and ensuring the safety of all staff. Mr Minister, your colleague Koen Geens assured me that the SPF Justice had carried out a study for the replacement of the CCTV system, the refurbishment of the lighting plant, the installation of perimetric detection, the optimal management of alarms and the creation of a new integrated command post for the prison in Tournai. The final result of this study was sent to your services in May 2017, so let me ask you the following questions. Will the CCTV system that will be refurbished take into account the current shortcomings of the outside cameras? Will it take into account the fact that the C wing and the new premises to host the ADEPPI courses are not currently covered by an effective video surveillance system? Will the new PCI finally make it possible to view properly, in a secure environment, all the videos emanating from the inside and outside surveillance cameras? Will the lighting park near the prison be refurbished? Could you give me a precise timetable for this work?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u57	Mr President, my colleague, the study carried out by Tractebel on behalf of the SPF Justice was forwarded to the Régie des Bâtiments. The project includes the replacement of CCTV, improved video surveillance, lighting of the approaches and perimetric detection. The specifications will be published in February for opening of tenders in March. After analysis of the tenders and award of the contract, the project may be notified in order to be carried out. A budget of 1.5 million has been proposed on the 2018 investment programme of the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope that things will change very, very quickly; admit that the situation is rather surreal. I invite you, moreover, to come visit the prison of Tournai. You can see that there are screens on which it is impossible to distinguish something, that cameras do not work, that in some places objects are swinged over the walls, objects, which, as I said to Minister Geens, have nothing to do with constitutional books. There is a new building right in the centre of the prison that is totally ineffective because there is a whole series of things missing. I think we're dealing here with a piece-wrap management. That said, I am positive in nature. You're telling me the procedure is under way. So I look forward to the first results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u59	Mr Minister, my question concerns the Luxembourg College, an 18th-century building in the Vaartstraat in Leuven. According to plans by the Government of the Buildings, it was decided at that time to accommodate the court of commerce, the labour court and the auditorate. The renovation started in 2011. However, since that renovation started, it remains remarkably quiet in the building. The work was shut down and since then the building has been empty. This empty position also has negative consequences for the building, which is now full of weeds. According to press releases by the Government of the Buildings, the reason for the standstill in the file was the then staff shortage. Also a change in the planning in the Justice Department caused delays in the file. At the time, the Secretary of State, Mr Verherstraeten, stated that the redevelopment of the building after consultation between the Government of the Buildings and Justice in 2014 was confirmed. The Secretary of State was also able to tell us that the work would resume after a study which would take more than a year. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions as a result of the standstill in that dossier and the negative impact on both the building and the surrounding area. Do you have a visual on that file? Why have the work been shut down? Why not continue to integrate the various buildings? Is there currently a discussion or a study on the resumption of work? Will work resume in the foreseeable future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u60	Mrs Van Hoof, a few years ago, the entire outer shell, including the rooftops, of the Luxembourg College building in Leuven was restored. The wind and water density is therefore ensured. Possible deterioration will be countered in no time. However, for the further completion of the building it is necessary to have a recent need of the FPS Justice. After all, we always work on behalf of our customers; the FPS Justice is our largest customer. At present, the Government of the Buildings does not have a recently validated needs programme by the FPS Justice Department. However, I know that the FPS Justice is now carrying out an analysis of the available and necessary areas for the services in Leuven in the context of its recently developed vision of "Court of the future'. Furthermore, a monitoring of the various buildings in Leuven currently occupied by the FPS Justice Department is also being carried out. The further completion of the building will be based on the validated needs programme of the Justice Department, which will be drawn up. That's what we're waiting for. Because the building is windproof and waterproof, it cannot degrade further, but we must first wait for our customer's expectations. Depending on the strategy adopted, the future implementation of the Luxembourg College will be determined. If necessary, further work will be carried out. So the ball is now in the court of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u61	Minister, that is clear. Then I know who I have to address my questions to, which I will do, because the need analysis and monitoring of the buildings takes a very long time. Does it take so much study to know how much one needs? If there is a reduction in staff, it is likely that it will not be necessary in the long term. In Leuven there is a feeling that the building can be used for alternative purposes and one is looking forward to it. The building is located in the middle of the city, in the Vaartstraat, and one thinks for example of an experience center around beer and catering. Ideas are plenty.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u62	That's better than for the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u63	That's right. That's also more interesting for such a beautiful building. I will put my questions to the Minister of Justice and I will try to put some pressure on the matter so that the Government of the Buildings knows where it is going.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-30-54-commissie-ic805x.u64	The following questions are deleted due to the absence of their authors: No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). No 21014, 21015 and 21041 No 21162 by Mrs Van Cauter, No 21243 by Mrs Özen, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Question No 220, by Mr Kir, No 22034 No 22635 by Mr Delizée, No 22636 by Mrs Lambrecht and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) 23327 by Mrs Lijnen.
