ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to this meeting of the Committee on Justice on Monday 4 June at 1.30 p.m. An exchange of views with the Minister of Justice on the terrorist attack in Liège is on the agenda. Before giving you the floor, Minister, I turn to you, ladies and gentlemen, to propose a way of working this afternoon. The minister will first make a presentation. I will then propose that each group intervene, depending on its importance. Then we will hear the Minister's answers. Can we proceed in this way? There is no objection. That will be the case. The meeting will be provided with a full and analytical account. The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I promised last Thursday, I will go into more detail in committee on the course of the perpetrator. At the same time, I will immediately make a number of proposals concerning the future. I will be unusually brief in my introduction, to give you as much opportunity as possible to ask questions. I've seen that there are four questions. I think I will be able to answer most of them immediately in the introduction to my speech, but of course I am not supposed to do so ad personam and in extenso. So you can come back to that afterwards. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not customary, but the circumstances are even less, that people report extensively on the prison course of a prisoner and offender. The circumstances oblige me. If that's what you want, I'd like to take his race route again between 2003 and 2010, but I think it's especially important to see his race route with you from 2010. I'll certainly do that in detail. That will take some time, but I hope that you will understand exactly what happened. Our unsub was apprehended on April 24, 2010 by an investigating judge for a violent theft on a flower trader. He committed those facts after non-return of a fifth exit permit, which was carried out on 19 April 2010. On 7 October 2013, the conviction he receives at that time led him to apply for penitentiary leave, which he would like to spend with his mother. A positive opinion from the prison director is followed by a negative decision by the central administration, the Department of Detention Management, which makes such decisions. On 16 December, that request shall be rejected. A new request for leave will follow on 11 September 2014. The prison director advises positively on 6 October 2014. The central administration will take a negative decision on 22 October 2014. A new request for penitentiary leave will be made on 26 January 2015. There is a positive opinion from the Director on 24 March 2015, based on the psychosocial report of 17 March 2015. He gives a positive opinion on the granting of an exit permit and adds, I quote: 'Les autres mesures, comme le congé pénitentiaire, apparaissent prématurées'. The decision of the central administration on 29 April 2015 is nevertheless a decision of an exit permit, because the central administration considers it better to do its psychological follow-up. The first leave will take place from 7 May to 8 May 2015. So that's over five years after the facts of 2010. The man stayed in prison for all five years without interruption. Penitentiary engagements will follow on 26 May, 15 June, 6 August and 1 September and finally on 1 October 2015. These six births to mother are well evaluated by a social survey of the Justice House on 28 October 2015. On 21 May 2015, the Criminal Court declared the application for conditional release of Benjamin Herman without object. Herman withdrew his request. In addition, there were negative opinions from the prison management and the prosecutor's office. The review plan for a release has not yet been substantiated. Preliminary release was a step too far. Five months later, on 29 October 2015, the same criminal execution court shall decide on a limited detention. You know that during the execution of the sentence, electronic surveillance, limited detention and provisional release are measures which can only be granted by the criminal court, while the exit permit and penitentiary leave are granted by the administration. Therefore, the limited detention will indeed be granted by the criminal execution court on 29 October 2015. It therefore decides to grant a limited detention and penitentiary leave of six times 36 hours per trimester. The justification by the criminal court for the granting of the limited detention was based on the proper conduct of the past six penitentiary leave, the fact that Benjamin Herman had been drug-absorbed for years, at least within the walls, the absence of contacts with his brother Dimitri, who was often involved in his crimes, the support of his family and the fact that social and psychological succession was underway. The decision will be enforceable upon entry into training – d at means, from the moment he would offer himself for a training course........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It was finally on 16 January 2016 that the limited detention started and that the training was a fact. In the weeks before, he had had two penitentiary leave, the seventh and the eighth, namely on 9 November 2014 and on 4 December 2015. The special conditions imposed by the SURB were as follows: contact should be maintained with the Namur Justice House and cooperation with the judicial assistant, who should be kept informed of any change in social, affective or professional life; psychological guidance during the limited detention and penitentiary leave, i.e. the visit to an external psychologist; attending training; proof of income; sports activity; prohibition of dealing with ex-convicts or inmates, unless family; no drug and alcohol use; no weapons possession; no driving without a driver's license or insurance. On 16 January 2016, Benjamin Herman started his limited detention. On 23 January 2016 he will be given a leave of absence during the limited detention, because, for the record, the limited detention means working during the day or following training and returning to prison overnight. When you get a penitentiary leave during the limited detention on top of that, this means you can skip one night and sleep outside the prison. Afterwards, it appears that the limited detention went wrong as of 28 January 2016. As of 28 January 2016, Benjamin Herman will go outside, but no longer to the programme. The DG EPI, the administration of the penitentiary institutions, is not informed of this by the judicial assistant, nor is the public prosecutor informed. For example, Mr Herman is still on leave on 6 February 2016. On 8 February 2016, there will be a description of the Justice House of Dinant at the SURB of Liège, because Benjamin Herman states that he has not followed the training since 28 January. He had a medical certificate from 28 January 2016 until 5 February 2016. He hadn't reported that to the attorney's office before. From justitieassistent besluit het verslag als volgt: "We leave to the interested person the benefit of the doubt". Here the limited detention should probably have been stopped, which did not happen. Perhaps the criminal execution court and the prosecutor's office at the SURB assumed that the person concerned had returned to the training after the end of the illness note. On 20 February 2016, the person is still on leave, while the limited detention was not entirely successful. On February 22, he doesn't return to prison. On 23 February there is a report from the Justice House to the SURB, which was contacted by Benjamin Herman's sister: he no longer tolerated the limited detention and was no longer interested in the training. His sister's message to the Justice House was that he prefers detention, preferably in Marche. On 4 March 2016, he commits new facts during his fugitive conduct, for which he is captured on 5 March. His limited detention will be revoked by the SURB on 11 March 2016. He gets a one-year prison sentence for the new facts. Following the withdrawal of the detention from prison during the day in order to receive training from the sentenced person concerned by judgment of 11 March 2016 by the criminal execution court of Liège, the following opinions were issued and decisions were taken leading to penitentiary leave and curfew permits. On 3 November 2016, Benjamin Herman asked for a penitentiary leave. Het report van de psychosociale dienst van de gevangenis van 28 november 2016 stelt: "The little questioning expressed seems to us to be a contraindication to the granting of a new leave. Further reflection on his plans for the future seems to us to be an indispensable prerequisite." The prison director advises negative on 7 September 2016 for the granting of a leave and the central administration refuses this leave on 21 September 2016. On 8 May 2017, the person concerned will again apply for penitentiary leave. Following negative advice from the prison director on 26 July 2017, the central administration will refuse to grant this leave on 3 August 2017. "The prudence imposed on therapeutic discharges would be more appropriate and would allow a gradual confrontation of the person concerned." So we are proposing nighttime permits in the future, but not penitentiary leave. On 3 August 2017, the person concerned shall apply for night-time permits. On 15 September 2017, the prison director advises positively on this. The management relies on an in-depth report of the psychosocial service of 3 July 2017. That report is 16 pages long. The Central Administration, the Department of Detention Management, decides on 28 September 2017 to grant night-time permits with the following special conditions: of good behavior, are no objects entering the prison without the permission of the management, a prohibition of drugs, alcohol, drugs without prescription and weapons possession, do not visit the criminal environment, with the exception of his brother, a ban on contact with victims, registration with the therapist and that subsequently certify and the punctual return to prison. The night tickets will take place on 10 October, 15 November and 6 December 2017 and on 2 January 2018, without any problems. The social assistant of the Marche-en-Famenne prison will make an update report on the person concerned on 17 January 2018, including the four good night-time permits, each with his therapist from the centre of Sésame in Namur. There he talks about his problem of misuse of resources and how he should behave and stand outside the walls. He only executes those night-time permits, so without a counselor. His family is present at his arrival at the station to greet and meet him. The social assistant reports that his detention goes smoothly. His detention was always smooth. Staff shall have no comment on their behaviour. According to the assistant, his future plans in the field of training and work are still flou. With regard to the counter-indications, the assistant states that, given his past and influenceability, the withdrawal from the sentence and the recidivism cannot be completely excluded. Although he no longer has any abuse of resources in prison, that remains a point of attention for the social assistant. To assist besluit zijn report: "Mr. Herman was able to be tested by way of exit permits. To our knowledge, his four outings went well. Although caution is needed, prison leave could be considered again." On 8 February 2018, the prison director of Marche issued a positive opinion on the penitentiary leave. In his reasoned opinion, the prison director writes: "M. Herman passe une détention tranquille, sans heurt. It conforms to the prison framework and seems to refrain from any drug use. If the prison frame allows him to contain himself, the extramural life seems complicated to manage for him. It is therefore important to go there gradually in the opening of the execution of his sentence. Since my previous opinion, Mr Herman has been granted five exit permits which have taken place in accordance with the conditions. He was able to resume his follow-up at Sesame and analyze with his psychologist the relapses repeatedly. Prison leave will allow for family reunion. The external social survey is not counterindicative. From my point of view, Mr Herman could be put to the test as part of prison leave." The external social survey of the Justice House of 19 February 2018 on the reception environment is positive. The judicial assistant mentions the positive influence of mother and sister. Before deciding on the leave, the central administration will request additional information from Marche's prison management on 28 February 2018. The questions deal with information about the victims, about the relationship with his stepfather and why the engagements do not take place with his father. In a new update report of 1 March 2018 from the social assistant, the following answers are given to these questions. Herman has known his mother's partner since he was 12 years old and has a good relationship with him. He feels more involved with his mother, which makes his behaviour towards her more authentic. Herman also stated that he may as well spend his leave with his father, but that he has the habit of spending it with his mother, each time he visits his father. There was no information available on the victims at the Criminal Court. On 12 March 2018, the central administration decides to grant penitentiary leave. The administration was aware of the problem of toxicomania and its antisocial personality. The positive decision was nevertheless taken for the following reasons: the smooth running of the night-time permits and the psychological guidance he receives, the positive report of the judicial assistant on the reception environment and the support he receives and receives from his mother. The counter-indications can be countered by imposing special conditions, such as staying with the mother, visiting the therapeutic counselor at Sésame and working on his reclassification plan. The following prohibitions were also included as conditions: no alcohol or substance use and no contact with the criminal environment or with ex-convicts. I have just listed the special conditions: impeccable behavior, staying with mother, reporting to the centre of Sésame and to his therapist, drawing up the rescission plan, banning drugs, drug use and alcohol, not visiting the criminal environment, no possession of weapons, prohibition of contact with victims, punctual return to prison. On 16 March 2018 and on 13 April 2018 he was given a leave of thirty-six hours each, which went well. Next, the penitentiary leave went on 28 May 2018, as you know, during which the dramatic events have occurred. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the report of Benjamin Herman's penitentiary race route. Colleagues, the report on Benjamin Herman's prison journey shows that the prison administration, the courts and the court for the enforcement of sentences – each in turn – have taken responsibility for a very brief interruption of sentence with a view to a certain purpose, on the basis of an extensive investigation. The reports of psychosocial services, social workers and legal assistants show that everyone has fulfilled their duty to justify the measure. Last Thursday, I explained to you that it seemed perfectly imaginable to me that with the same data, someone could have made another decision. Each time, the necessary considerations have been established. We also measured the importance of contraindications. Thus, from the moment he had recidivated, the inmate was punished by the extension of the uninterrupted periods. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that both the prison administration and the SURB have, in turn, assumed a certain responsibility for the re-inheritment of the prisoner, at various times in his or her course. There are some things that can also be found in literature and statistics and which are by no means insignificant. That is that local management is generally milder, that the central management is usually stricter and that there are very many applications for exit permits and penitentiary leave that are supported locally are centrally rejected and that it cannot be said that the criminal execution court in this case, after the provisional release had become without object, did not want to make room for a limited detention with training. Also the magistrate, from 2015-2016, found the time ripe to prepare the person in question for life in society. Nevertheless, this is evident from the whole profile, which I will be able to go into later, if you wish, we are dealing with a still young inmate. From a very young age, he has been subjected to drug use. He had a weak intelligence and was very influential. Unfortunately, we often encounter this kind of profile in our prisons, someone who had a youth crime path before becoming a visitor to our prison system. The radicalisation that is mentioned in the context of that person is certainly a possible element in the considerations that can lead to the classification as terrorist acts of the crimes committed last week or not. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, have been doing my homework since last week. No service would have considered it justified, on the basis of the limited information available on Mr Herman and his attitude of belief, to be included on a list of radicalised persons, neither CelEx nor the OCAD. According to the services, there was no identifying alarm signal that allowed that. Again, I don't rule out anyone from among you on the basis of the same data doing anything else. But that's not the first question. I'm not even ruling out that a minister would have done anything else. But that's not the question. The people have made that decision in all conscience on the basis of the information available to them. There has been much to do about the two reports of 2017 on State Security. Without those reports on Mr Benjamin Herman, it was pointed out at the edge of those reports that he had been converted in 2012 and that he might have been able to carry out a radicalisation process. But those brief details were not enough, nor was the report of the chief of the guard and the chief of the quarter of Marche-en-Famenne, which became public last week, to regard him as radicalized. I dare to refer you to a report of March 2017 of the local task force du Luxembourg based on a police RIR. At a meeting of the Luxembourg local taskforce in March 2017, all services reached the same conclusion. Again, the question is not whether these employees have made a wrong decision. After that, of course, that is a decision that has gone wrong. The question is whether they have taken it wrong, whether they have taken it on the basis of insufficient data and whether they have taken it in spite of an existing policy. The answer to that is, I think, not positive. I think it is important, throughout this story, which is terribly painful, that the principles of our penitentiary system and of our rule of law naturally call into question, as they always do, and that encourages us to think deeply about what we should do better in the future, first and foremost about the execution of sentences in general. I have heard many of you say that our punishment is wrong. Without saying that or contradicting it, it is clear that the government has a firm will to deal with and improve the execution of the sentence. It is in this context that my firm has proposed to an intercabinet group a draft of a new Penal Enforcement Code which would provide, in many decisions, for stricter and more precise enforcement of sentences than is currently the case, according to the legislation of 2005 and 2006. But let us not forget that our rules on internal position and external position are not so old. They have, in fact, been voted and promulgated since 2005-2006, and not all of them have yet come into force. What are we going to try to change in the sentence? All punishments will be executed as they are imposed by the judge. This means that when the criminal court chooses a prison sentence and not an alternative community-based sentence, which also goes on effectively in prison. There will therefore no longer be any automatic conversion of prison sentences into electronic surveillance. Now that happens for a number of short-term punishments up to three years. Therefore, electronic surveillance will only be possible if the court considers, on the substance, that the autonomous penalty of electronic surveillance is the appropriate sanction. If he finds that a prison sentence is required, the perpetrator goes to prison and from a certain time condition in detention he can apply for electronic supervision as a transitional measure. One of the premises will of course be that there will be a sensitisation for anyone who imposes and executes a punishment, preferably a positive, recovering alternative punishment; unless the nature of the facts, the identity of the perpetrator, the protection of society and the preventive nature demand that a sentence be carried out in detention. If a prison sentence is changed in nature and duration.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is a logical legal principle that only the judge can change a sentence in terms of duration and nature. It concerns the limited detention, electronic surveillance and early release, which will no longer be possible for the executive to apply. The conditions of time, i.e. how long one has to sit at a first conviction and how long one has to sit at a relapse, the present one third and two thirds have to be the subject of discussion within the government. The Criminal Enforcement Court will be the only body that will be able to take decisions in the event of poor execution of the alternative penalties - such as community service, probation or autonomous electronic supervision. Now this is sometimes the Probation Commission or the Public Prosecutor's Office, for example in the case of a community service, intervening. We want a specialised full-time judicial authority, namely the criminal court, to follow up these penalties and decide if it goes wrong. Thus, the whole sentence is concentrated on the same body. This can only improve the exchange of information and the follow-up of perpetrators. The recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Attacks are registered. A special justification will have to be given if the criminal enforcement court deviates from the opinions of the prosecutor or the prison director. The verdict will also have to determine whether a person who goes free may travel abroad. If this is stated in the judgment, the sentenced person will always have to address the prosecution to ask for permission to go abroad on a case-by-case basis. The proper functioning of the law requires better information exchange and influxes between courts, prosecutors, police, prisons and justice houses. In the more serious cases, further efforts should be made to monitor the conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, these are some of the broad lines of the new preliminary draft Penal Code which, as you have heard, do not, in the first instance, deal with penitentiary leave and the exit permit. Since these measures exist, they have been consistently used by our administration to prepare for a provisional release, or if it does not come to a provisional release, to prepare for a final release. It is not clear when these measures are being implemented in the period I have just described why, in one case, the criminal execution court is acting today in the Chamber for the Protection of Society and why, in the other case, the prison administration is acting. Temporary interruptions of a measure in case of internment or in case of making available are decided by the Social Protection Chamber within the framework of the Penal Enforcement Court, while, for detainees, it is the administration, specifically the Detention Management Service, which, on the basis of the opinions of the local and central psychologists, decides in two stages. It is clear that subjecting all prison leave and leave to a prior decision of the sentencing court, also for prisoners, is a measure that I want to consider perfectly. I have no objection in principle to such a measure. But I'm not sure – and that's the only point I'm allowing myself at this moment – that decisions will necessarily be tougher. I would point out that, recently, a study by the National Institute of Forensics and Criminology has been published. The Commission strongly insists on submitting certain decisions to the enforcement court because, precisely, the administration is quite strict. But, for my part, it is perfectly conceivable, provided that the judiciary is given the necessary resources to manage this policy. This obviously depends on the number of decisions taken. These are several thousand decisions per year. It's not an easy task. This makes the responsibility of the political world less burdensome in such situations, as was the case after the Dutroux case with regard to provisional release, for so far it was also the executive that decided. But I believe that this measure can be considered perfectly. I would like to point out that there was no question of this during the consultation on the new Code of Criminal Procedure. That question often comes from a different angle than that of entanglement, but as far as I am concerned it is perfectly possible. I would say more, colleagues. What has disturbed me in recent days is that so much in our youth care, which is not within my jurisdiction, in our prison system, which is within my competence, that so much in our internment system is left to the will of the person, that people cannot be deradicalized, that people cannot be forced to work and that people cannot be given training, people who have had serious problems from a young age through their own personal constitution. They have had problems since their youth, because of the composition of their families and for other reasons that are not too relevant at the moment, and with a view to their reintegration, nothing can be imposed on them. This is something that scares me because it is here that all of us, at the level of the Communities, at the federal level, could do better, in my opinion. Let's be clear! When someone is considered radicalized, but not contagious, can we do anything about him? Can we impose an education, a training, a medication that may allow him to return from the path he has chosen? Unfortunately, the answer is "no", because the freedom of this person is total. I know only one exception in our law on the external position of prisoners, namely the obligation to undergo a diagnosis for cases of sexual crime. This is the only opportunity where our legislation gives us the right to impose something on someone in a prison setting. For the rest, it is the freedom of the individual that prevails. It scares me. We have so far always agreed on this and I do not suggest that we start using atrocious things, far from it. But it seems to me that we should make more provision in our legislation for standardized conditions that can be applied by any body - the administration or the court for the enforcement of sentences - and allow certain conditions to be imposed to measure that the individual in question cannot leave, obtain a prison leave, an exit permit, a provisional release, a restricted detention, unless he or she is prepared to undergo treatment that makes him or her more suitable for eventual reintegration. In my opinion, we can talk about radicalisation but also about poisoning; there are measures to be taken at this level and which I think are extremely important. Indeed, it is very easy to say for a judge, without criticising, "this gentleman will in any case be free in 2020" and then say to a prison "now you will prepare him for his final release in 2020" and not necessarily give him the tools, the tools to do so. This seems to me a lead that we could perhaps choose together, regardless of whether it is the enforcement court or whether it is the central administration that decides. Dear friends, at last Thursday's plenary session, a point appeared last in my speech because if I had started with this one, no one would have been happy. It's about physical health and mental health in our prisons. She's not good at all! Together with our colleague De Block, we have recently been able, thanks to the measures already taken by the previous government, to implement an internment law in 2016 – a regime, an internment and internment health care infrastructure. Finally, we provide our interns with health care adapted to their complicated situation. It lasted a very long time. I confess that I still have at least 500 people in my prisons who are not yet receiving this care. It's high time we did it. If ever in ten years, I was asked what was the thing that I was most proud of, I would say that together with colleague De Block, I was able to do that. It was urgent: we have been condemned many times. There is, however, something else that I tried to explain at our meeting last Thursday: as soon as we enter prison, we no longer have social security. Very few people know that. Even a man my age who commits a crime of passion by killing his wife no longer benefits from social security, once in prison. The health care provided in prisons is carried out by my department. It must be noted that they do not meet modern health care standards. However, detainees generally suffer from prison-related damage and often have physical and mental health problems that are not treated as they should. That is why, once again, together with my colleague De Block, we proposed to the Interministerial Conference last month, on the basis of a study by INAMI, to look into this issue and to ensure that, from 2020 onwards, we are able to provide health care worthy of the name in our prisons. I would venture to go further, colleagues. You know I'm in a lot of trouble getting enough guards. I have been continuously filling in my framework since the 2016 strikes. There are sometimes 900 candidates present at Selor, of which 30 succeeds and 15 start. If you have to conduct a personnel policy like this, I'll be with my central administration on a weekly basis to follow it up. So you know about how hard it is. Beginning penitentiary agents don't earn so badly, but our labour market is very tight, especially in the north of the country. I also need more nurses and more psychologists in my own staff to be able to deal with people with a weak psychological profile, such as Mr Herman, in the first line. An important question that I will ask at some point, I know that this is a question that will not be very much appreciated by everyone, is whether we should not give our prisons the status of district health centre. In our prisons, at least one third of people are in serious need of care. In addition, I have long dreamed of a psychiatric observation center. I would also like to draw your attention to that. It's another binary choice I talked about on Thursday. In particular, the choice of whether or not a person is responsible is psychologically a very difficult choice, which is, of course, usually made at the time of the conviction in the sense that he or she is responsible. Very often, however, a very weak profile is discovered afterwards, indicating mental limitations or deviations. That psychiatric observation center, which my predecessors already wanted to make in Haren, will be opened next year in the absence of the prison in Haren. In doing so, we want to allow the assessment of accountability to be improved and that persons who have been detained for years, but should perhaps have been interned, could still change their regime. After all, ladies and gentlemen, what is everyone looking for? What do we all want right now? As an administrative or executive unit, it is sought to have the right to keep certain persons in detention despite the fact that they are in full pain. And, in this case, internment is a tailor-made provision as soon as mental health or disability does not admit... Internment is a provision for taking indefinite but not eternal security measures. Because it is always possible to limit them. In my opinion, the cases in which they should be applied are rare, but I nevertheless submit this idea to your attention. There has been a great deal to do in recent days about the succession of the released, and in particular the finally released radicalised or convicted for terror. First of all, let me distinguish between both categories. There are people who radicalize in prison and there are people who have been convicted of terror and who have been punished. It is clear that when it comes to the end of punishment, we only have the follow-up by the local task forces today. I know that many of you, following the study that was published in De Standaard on Friday, are surprised by this problem, but you must not think that we did not already know this problem. Many of you, of course, already knew it. In February we met extensively with the Security Council and reported on this, as people of that type were released in 2017. If you want figures, I will be able to go into them in more detail later. So far, but we have to stick to wood, the follow-up of those persons is carried out by the local task forces, and distracted, if necessary, by the local integrated security cells, properly and there are no cases of repeated releases. However, this does not mean that this will continue to be the case. You should be aware that our justice houses do not have the title to succeed those people when they are finally released because there is no more criminal execution. Our justice houses do have access to the database. For example, in Flanders, the deradicalisation officials, when they have been able to apply a treatment to a particular radicalized person, will automatically follow up on this person, even if he is terminated. But it is an important question, and I share them with you, whether we should take measures other than a strict follow-up by the local task forces, which can go far, for the sake of clarity. The security of the State is perfectly permitted, if it deems it necessary, to follow a permanently released person on the basis of a wiretap if it fears that he could do stupid things. The same applies to the court if it obtains the permission of the investigating judge. We already know the posting of the criminal court. In order to clarify the matter, the provision of the court with regard to the enforcement of sentences is a measure imposed by the trial judge, not by the judge of the enforcement court. It is the trial judge who decides on the length of a court's provision for the enforcement of sentences. It is ultimately this court that decides to what extent this provision will be used. If we wish to expand this measure, in my opinion we can only do so for those who are not yet condemned. That is how a criminal measure in this regard may come too late. That is why I replied, when I was given certain proposals, that, in my opinion, it was useful to think about an administrative detention measure. I am currently studying the legislation of the countries around us. However, as I said in my speech in Parliament and last weekend, it is not easy to find convincing examples of a follow-up other than the one we are following. Nevertheless, I am quite open to finding ways to make things simpler. Let me turn to cooperation with the Communities. We already have several cooperation agreements and we have good cooperation with the three ministers in the three Communities, who are responsible for the houses of justice. Nevertheless, I will take the opportunity to make this one of the recommendations of the follow-up committee Terrorist Attacks Maalbeek and Zaventem to improve cooperation with local district agents and local judicial assistants in social research and follow-up. What has happened following the limited detention in Dinant is an example of imperfect cooperation between the judicial world in the Community and at the federal level. I would like to point out that in the potpourri II Act we have made the penitentiary leave and the night-time permits stricter. We have increased the possibilities for the prison system not to grant leave or an authorisation already granted on account of new facts. This has increased the number of failures, because the allocation of statistics is ultimately seen as a failure. However, a failure in general does not mean that there has been a recurrence. We have long quantified and calculated and found that the total number of penitentiary leave has been repeated two per thousand, but that each inmate receiving penitentiary leave receives one inmate receiving 10 to 20 penitentiary leave, the percentage is around 2.5 %. I would not say that it is not appropriate to give such statistics. I know that in some cases this can bring little consolation, for which I also have the greatest understanding. Our society needs to know, however, that when people go to the end of their sentence or go to a provisional release, we have to prepare them in one way or another. Why have more penitentiary engagements been awarded? The number has been increasing ever since 2007? The reason is that, when granting a provisional release, the criminal courts systematically require that such permissions and penitentiary leave precede them. In this sense, it is a policy of reintegration which has taken place on the basis of the legislation of the first decade. We can think about this further if necessary. Finally, I would also like to remind you of what I was able to put to the vote in Parliament together with you in the Committee on Justice, particularly the security period. We have given more and more resources, and in the Code of Criminal Procedure we will grant even more resources to the court at the bottom to influence the execution of the sentence and to ensure that neither the administration nor the execution judge can later turn that sentence into a lesser or another sentence. Mr President, I would like to raise a few concerns, with not too many figures, which I would like to present to the sitting. I would like to say once again that I deeply regret the facts and do not wish to minimize them in any way. However, as with the facts in Maalbeek and Zaventem, the services, which are not always able to work in the best possible conditions, need our support in order to work much better and much more dedicated in the future than they are today. However, I do not feel that mistakes have been made in this case that could have been avoided. I do not want to be defensive in this, on the contrary, following what I know about the dossier. It is possible that we will discover much more in the coming days, but at first sight that is the conclusion I dare to draw. We can certainly do better in our criminal law, public health legislation and our cooperation with the Communities than we do today. I have repeatedly suggested this. We are far, but sometimes it does not go as fast as we would like. Is it just a matter of budget? No, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to a question of budget, this is also a question of cooperation between the various departments and between the Communities and the federal government. So I will not hesitate to make it clear at the next budget round, again, as I have done in the past with regard to the interns, that there is speed involved and that more resources should be allocated to the prison system, especially for psychological aid and nurses. Let us not forget one thing, at the end of this brief speech. An infrastructureally healthy prison system is the first condition for good care. We have made progress in this area over the last 20 years, but that too is too slow. Building new prisons is the hardest thing in this country, and we all have a little fault for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation and the timeline you have given. It's a good thing you repeated that. I am pleased that you are going to take further steps in the context of criminal proceedings and the new code of conduct. You will also make a number of matters subject to discussion. That's important. We must make the exercise to put more and more into the hands of the judge and to remove more from the administration. I am convinced that this is a good exercise, but we are not there yet, as you say. There's still a lot of work to be done. I would like a little more information on a number of issues, Minister. You have given the timeline of all the favors and reports that have been there. We also know that there have been two State Security reports that have been discussed in different departments. At some point it was decided not to include Herman in the database of the OCAD. I leave in the middle whether this was a right decision or a wrong one. That was easily said afterwards, but it did not happen. My question is whether this information did not somehow circulate in the prison system itself? If we know that there is certain information, is there not a list within the prison system on which prisoners are placed who show a sign of radicalisation? I think it stands or falls with that. If you notice something, what do you do with it? It's hard for me to imagine that this isn't happening. I think they're either recording this themselves or keeping a list. This brings me to one aspect which has struck me very hard throughout the discussion. We have received the information that a number of penitentiary officials had noted matters. For me, it remains unclear what happened to that information from in prison? Did you see it through? Yes or no? Did anyone know that? This has been the subject of a whole debate in plenary, but I would like to know whether this information has come from somewhere. If that is not the case, then we need to think very hard about how we can ensure that this information does reach us. Why do I say that? In the last few days, I've found a few responses in my mailbox from people who work inside the prison system. There's the psychosocial service that's doing what he can, that's obvious. There are the penitentiary officers, the people who deal with the prisoners on a daily basis. They basically know their pappenheimers. So there's actually a lot of information inside the prison walls. Psychosocial services don't see the inmates every day, you know that too. They do draw up reports and advise. The penitentiary officials see the inmates every day. They often have more and direct information. I made a point in plenary and I was subsequently confirmed. Is the information from whom I shall just mention guards actually going to be called, I know that they are called penitentiary officials, but I still find guards easier to say and I mean that respectfully enough taken away? Can we not give more weight to that information, to the chips that are being made up? Can this not be taken into account in the final decision-making process, where decisions have to be taken by the local prison management or someone higher up in the administration? Can we get that information up there? That's essential. It's important to use those eyes and ears more within the prison walls. For me, it is not even relevant that the decision is taken by the criminal court or by an administration. I believe that this is the task of the criminal court, and I do not think it is illogical that we should make that move. However, if the information is not available, it does not matter who has to make the decision. We must first ensure that we have that information, including the information from the prison floor. That is still a big question mark for me in this case. Did it get there or not? Secondly, will we do more with this in the future? I think it's wonderful that there's more follow-up, even from a psychiatric point of view. Even so, I am aware that a psychiatrist or psychologist, like the psychosocial service, will not see the prisoners every day. The penitentiary officials do see those inmates every day. I believe that this source of information should be much more involved in the chain. I really hope you can take that with you in the exercise. You yourself said that solutions must be sought in the area of punishment. It's good that the thought exercise is being made. I'm also glad to hear that exercise isn't new and it was made before. After all, it would be bad if we did not ask what would happen to those people until they were released. I hope that exercise was indeed started a while ago, because it is essential. For this reason, last Friday also suddenly came up with that question as a result of the publication of the list of people who will be released. If someone was convicted of Terro and released, you believe that the local task forces or the LIVCs are currently following that person fairly well. As mayor, I know those LIVCs have yet to find their way. In your opinion, however, this has been going pretty well so far. If there are more and more such people at the prison gates and they return to society, I wonder whether that succession will still be successful. Will we be able to keep it up? There are those who have been convicted of being aware that they are already on a certain list and therefore need to be kept in mind. But what do we do with prisoners, such as a Herman, who did not end up in prison for facts of terro or things related to radicalisation, but who radicalised in prison themselves? There is no criminal offence in these persons. During the execution of the sentence, it is only found that the parties concerned radicalise. What do we do with that? A number of proposals have already been made. I'm glad you're looking into that. Legally, this will not be evident. How will we succeed such persons? Can we leave that succession to the local task forces? How can we secure our society against these people? I think that's a very big challenge coming our way. I think we should look for resources and dare to think out or box for security measures, for example posting. I'll let the kid get any name, but there's got to be enough control. A coat rack is needed in connection with the control, the decision-making power, the conditions under which it is imposed and the procedure under which it is applied. I have been thinking a lot about this last weekend, and I honestly confess that I do not know the answer today either, because it is not evident. I certainly hope that after today's committee meeting we will not stop thinking about it. After all, we need an answer, because more and more prisoners who come to the end of their sentence have already come into contact with radicalisation and may be a danger. In plenary, I asked about screening and monitoring. In the meantime, I have received an answer. However, this is not enough: information comes from screening and monitoring, but we must also do something about it. There is still an important task. I have no doubt that your services have gone crazy for hours, but I had hoped that we could have gone a little more in a particular direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u4	That's not an easy matter. However, I thought I had raised a preliminary solution, Mrs De Wit. I personally believe that anyone who radicalizes in prison, even if he or she does not commit a criminal offence, should no longer be eligible for any penitentiary measure if he or she is not treated for it. That is what we should standardise in the law on external legal status. As for sexual delinquency, therefore, the diagnosis must be made within the penitentiary course. It's not as obvious as it looks. Yesterday, Mr Dauwe, the prison director of Hasselt, who is doing very well in his prison, admitted on television that he did not know whether he would be advising penitentiary leave for one of the people in his Deradex department who will end their sentence. He said that there was no positive advice for people at the end of their sentence, but he didn't know if he would do it at all. I'm not saying I would, Mrs Lambrecht. You may be afraid of that, but one way or another, that man knows very well what he's talking about. An important question for Parliament is then whether we can help these people, because they cannot at present impose any coercion on a course of instruction, I call it that now, because that is the easiest thing to do, but I also know that it is not going to be a cure for disengagement or disengagement. Our legislation does not prohibit this. However, by amending the law on external legal status, we will be able to limit it. That's all I wanted to say. I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u5	Not at the end of the sentence, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u6	In that context, I myself spoke about administrative detention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u8	Mrs De Wit has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u9	My question was mainly about that. As long as one still has opportunities during a detention, it is possible. At the end of the sentence, however, one gets the same problem as with a sexual offender, who sometimes dares to choose to serve his sentence completely until the end, and then again without conditions at the prison gate, without anyone watching or controlling. That is my great concern. If one does not want to cooperate, one chooses a prison until the end of the sentence and one stands at the prison gate. We do not know who might be released on the streets like a ticking time bomb. I think that's the biggest challenge. I hope you will find a solution to that. If it is not today, it will be in the coming weeks, because I think that is one of the biggest challenges that will come to us. I hope I'm wrong, but I'm very worried about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, thank you for your explanation. But let's be clear! For today's work, Minister, you say you have a whole series of reforms that you can propose. Of course, we are quite available for the debate, and we will bring our own proposals. I started last Thursday by talking about, for example, an internal intelligence service in prisons, as there are elsewhere. We are also very pleased that you are proud of the measures related to internees. As you know, in 2006, we concluded the first agreement between Justice and Health and we released resources for the institutions of Ghent and Antwerp. In short, we will discuss all this in the context of the reforms that are absolutely necessary. I think that today the session is rather devoted to the consideration of the circumstances that led to the prison leave and the killing of Liège. In any case, that's what I'll focus on. On the killer's journey, you showed that he had spent much of his life in prison, that he was an extremely influential person and under the influence of psychotropics. But on the basis of what you said, we don't know much about its connection to radicalism. We know that he was a man who had converted, we know that he had been in contact with recruiters several times. We know there were reports on the subject. I'll come back. But on this basis, has there been, in particular, a work around this person to understand what is happening and prevent radicalization? I, in any case, have not heard any of this. What interests me at first is whether you, as Minister of Justice, have implemented your own proposals as part of the 2015 prison radicalism plan and whether you have worked on the conclusions of the Attentats Commission. In the radicalism plan of 2015, you had issued a whole series of considerations that I consider very important, such as improving living conditions in prison institutions, as a stronger position of information within prisons – I will ask you about this specific point – or structures for an optimal exchange of information. It interests me to know what has been done, because I have the impression that there have been mistakes. I'll come back. You have worked on the placement of radicalized people, with the creation of the Deradex sections in Ittre and Hasselt and the creation of satellite wings. What instructions did you take to find out when you put detainees in the Deradex section, when you put them in the satellite wings? When we leave them in the ordinary sections, what do we do to prevent them from being able to recruit? I have the impression that there is a great blur in the guidelines that are given to the administration for the management of radicalised people. Furthermore, as you know, in the context of the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks, we have drawn up an important list of recommendations. I will highlight any of these proposals and see if you have worked on their application. At the start of this commission, we said that the number one problem in radicalism was prison. The prison has become the most developed of radicalism. From the moment we make this observation and make recommendations, I assume that it becomes urgent to take action. For example, we said that it was more than urgent to make detention plans around radicalised people, both to prevent them from recruiting other people, who were essentially fragile, into the prison environment, than to try to deradicalize, or more precisely, as our experts in the Attentats Committee said, in order to prevent the escalation of violence in the context of radicalisation. Has any work been done on these detention plans? Another example was that we argued that there should be a radicalist reference within each prison, whose mission would be – without being exhaustive – to centralize the information extracted from the prisoners' observation, to contextualize it and to share it with all potentially interested structures, both inside and outside the prison. What has been done about this? Finally, as another example, the Committee of Inquiry recommended that a memorandum of understanding involving all the services concerned should be drawn up and that it should determine the information and information to be shared. The issue of opening up access to information in the sentencing court and in the courts was even opened up. That is, if we wanted transparency and the exchange of information. What has been done with regard to this recommendation, which has its full meaning in examining the circumstances of the Liège massacre? I come to the protagonists involved in this killing. We have, of course, the killer. But right before that, we have to ask ourselves about the recruiters. Can you establish their profiles and why they were not in Deradex sections or specific wings? Having been left in the ordinary prison environment, what measures have been taken to prevent them from recruiting? Clearly, however, they have recruited. I would like to understand what has been done because as far as recruiters are concerned, as you said, Security reports have been drawn up. Have there been information reports (IRRs) as well? I don't know. Have there been any exchanges between the State Security, the police and prisons? I don't know exactly. It is essential to know whether potential recruiters are left, the field free, with fragile and influential people. Regarding the killer, two police information reports were prepared in 2015 and 2016. What have we done with it? Were they known to the State Security? Were these RIRs known to the prison administration, the prison director? Was the police aware of the reports of the Sûreté? All the recommendations I have mentioned in your Radicalism Plan, as well as in the report of the Attentats Committee, remind us of the need for the exchange of information. In the present case, however, there was very little question of this. So what happened with the RIRs? State Security has prepared reports. You explain to us that they were about the recruiters and that the name of the killer was mentioned. Either, but two RIRs had already come out about him. Has all this been discussed? What has been decided, in particular, to take care of him as part of a necessary detention plan, which makes it possible to try to avoid such tragedies? In short, the creation of a time line is indispensable, both to learn more about recruiters and the killer. Similarly, it is important to understand the exact flow of information exchange between services. It seems to me, minister, that you said this weekend that the prison director may not know the State Security reports. This seemed normal to you as the latter writes his reports from what is reported by prison officers, social workers, psychologists. Admit it! However, are IRRs and Sûreté reports transmitted to prison management and, possibly, to "terrorism" referents, in order to consider or refuse prison leave or to take appropriate accompanying measures justified by the number of reports? These are several questions I wanted to ask you. On the other hand, since I spoke about it last Thursday, I am taking up the question that Mrs De Wit has just asked about the work to be done. This becomes urgent, as the first prisoners will be released. In fact, they are often individuals who do not care about leave and parole, who do not want to be supervised during such leave. These detainees are just waiting for the end of their sentence, as I said on Thursday, to continue their march towards radicalization. Beyond the particular question concerning the killer, beyond the questions concerning the recruiter, this is the essential question of the protection of our society. How can we protect it from a very radical number of people who have left prison and who could pose an extremely serious threat to our democracy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u11	Minister, thank you for your briefing. When I start mine, I think of the victims. As has been said in plenary by many of us, the answer that we will have to give will have to be equal to the pain that is theirs. Today, whether we are politicians, actors on the ground or ordinary citizens, our aim is that such a tragedy should not happen again. This will require action in two stages: to determine where the faults are, but also to find solutions to them. My party, of course, remains convinced that it is necessary for prisoners to have leave and prison leave to start their reintegration. I intend to propose that these arrangements should no longer be granted by the prison administration, but by a judge. I would like to recall that Ibrahim El Bakraoui was released by the sentencing court. No one is infallible and, unfortunately, there is no zero risk. Is not the answer found, in particular, in the information that should be available to the administration for its decision? I had a number of questions to ask you about the subject, but you answered them very broadly during your presentation. I would just like to say a word - my colleagues have also referred to it - about the signs of radicalisation and the question of the suspicion of radicalism. I know that it is easy to speak a posteriori, but when we have such signals, Mr.Minister, should we not consider a more in-depth psychological analysis than you mentioned? It is clear, however, that, whatever the reasons, and I will return to it, there are dangerous prisoners in prison who will never be amended. I am thinking of radicalized prisoners and Mrs. Onkelinx was referring to them. I am also thinking of ordinary prisoners who, at the end of their sentence, remain a danger to society. Minister, at the level of my party, we are ready to discuss this issue with you. We could re-establish a provision for the government, as has been mentioned, or use administrative detention as you proposed earlier. We do not have "the" solution, but this must remain an exceptional measure, to be determined on a case-by-case basis. Mr Minister, in our view, these issues must be placed in a broader and more comprehensive framework, a reflection which this committee has initiated. It is important to remind him. We have indeed begun hearings with actors on the issue of the meaning of sentence. On Wednesday afternoon, we will still have hearings on this subject. We are at the heart of the problem. When to apply a prison sentence? When to resort to alternative penalties? What about the actual effectiveness of the prison sentence? There is now a mismatch between the sentence imposed on the one hand and the sentence actually imposed on the other. This question is obviously important. The Government had passed a text on security sentences for perpetrators of certain crimes and offences. Should we go further? The MR, as I have already said in my speeches in this debate, is obviously ready to discuss it. In the past few days, everyone has been expressing themselves and trying to explain the reasons why a common-law prisoner has become radical: the state of prisons, the lack of guards, prisoners without perspective, and the Salafist movement preached by some detainees. In any case, my group remains convinced that reintegration will involve education, training and work in prison. All levels of power are affected here, as you have indicated. We are all aware of this: supply must be improved. Minister, I would have liked to hear from you about this consultation between the different levels of authority. How can we even better coordinate the supply so that it is satisfactory in terms of quality and quantity in each prison? In Haren, recruitment of guards, training of guards against radicalization; establishment of two Deradex sections in Ittre and Hasselt. These initiatives are ongoing. It can be said that the government is making progress in this area. But, minister, there are also reports, including testimonies from prison guards, which in recent days have led us to ask ourselves some questions. Minister, what can you tell us about these trainings for guards? What are they in concrete terms? Who should follow them? Who can follow them? What proportion of guards do these training courses take place? Are these guards sufficiently numerous and sufficiently in contact with inmates to detect this radicalism? I am very interlocked by some testimonies of guards but also of detainees whom we were able to read this weekend by media intervention. It would appear that preachers preach in complete peace under the preaux and that prisoners are forced to convert to Islam in order to have peace. Is this information proven? If that is the case, you will recognize that this is very challenging. Do you have more information about this and can you tell us a little more? Do you have at this stage an evaluation of the Deradex system, which consists of isolating the most radical and contagious detainees?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u12	Mr Minister, you have come back to the whole suffering of this person and of the services that have been trying to make the most of it all these years. You explained that very clearly. You have explained here a period of eight years. In my opinion, this shows, in all intellectual honesty, that all these services have actually worked very hard with this guy, which is ultimately the fateful result and no matter how sorry I am. I believe, however, that we must say, in the end, in all conscience, that the various steps you have taken in your services have worked very accurately and well. All right, the facts are what they are, but we must also dare to acknowledge that, in all intellectual honesty. If we do not have the courage to acknowledge this, then we simply have to say that the whole system that we attach high priority to, in particular, a prison system which sooner or later brings about reintegration, is not right. That's not how it works. I believe that more than one night has been ice-creamed before certain things have been allowed. Moreover, it is quite clear that the prison director, who, in my opinion, still plays a very important role in the whole story of penitentiary leave and that he must continue to do so in the future, actually knows the prisoners in a manner of speaking, as a school director knows his students, especially those who stay longer with him. There may be two hundred, three hundred, four hundred or five hundred pupils, but I know more school directors who also know in secondary schools which students are for bad purposes and which are not. In the eight years you've defected, the warden has often advised positively faster than your administration. That's a statement I'm making. The administration apparently didn't follow the Warden's advice a few times. Anyway, that's an observation I'm making. I understand that we continue to try to put forward a number of facts, including, of course, the story of radicalisation. I have heard you say very clearly that the various services that have come into contact with it did not have enough elements to include it in a particular list, in honour and conscience. That was your clear position on this. Honestly, the guy killed someone else a few hours before the facts with the police officers in Liège. My feeling is that this is more a drug problem that characterized the man than a radicalisation problem. That's my personal opinion on that. As I understand it, this murder certainly didn't happen through radicalisation. I believe that drugs were at stake again at the moment. There are two elements from that man's past before he was released, two things that may cast uncertainty on this dossier. First of all, what about controlling the radicalisation story? You talked about that. It is what it is. And second, maybe even more, what about keeping control of the drug story? That's how I read the facts, but I don't know them enough. None of us know all the details right now. We are all based, among other things, on newspaper articles, but these are the two important elements that led this man to what happened. To what extent was radicalisation or drugs decisive? I feel that the problem of drugs has played a major role, despite all the programmes that have been carried through and all the conditions that have been imposed. This is also true of the facts, which I am sure other colleagues would like to go into a little more detail. Minister, my group is satisfied with the answers you have given and we will listen to the additional information you will provide, including in response to the pertinent, punctual questions that have been asked. That's how I took this committee. This is how I take every committee, especially when it comes to crisis situations of this kind. They must not lead to flash-flame politics, we do not argue for that, but they must create a momentum in which politics can move something. Contrary to what Mrs Onkelinx says, today is not just about what the facts of Liège are. Let us continue to do so, no problem at all, but I think it is certainly as valuable to look at what we can do now at such a time. Let us exchange ideas on this. I am very pleased that you have just launched a number of ideas. I would like to continue with that. We must distinguish between a number of elements. On the one hand, we have a number of people who have already been punished, who are in prison and with whom we have to deal, and on the other hand we have a number of people who may be punished in the future. You have made a number of suggestions with which we may be able to do something in the future. I hear a number of party chairmen saying that anyone who is radicalised and in prison should never be released and made available to the government. I'd like to think about that. I do not think that is impossible, but we have many people who have already been punished and already know their punishment. I do not see how they can suddenly be imposed additional conditions in a rule of law. That's something that plays along. Let us look at those who have already been punished. A first point is the analysis of how to deal with these people during their prison time. And then I remain convinced that these penitentiary engagements are sooner or later a necessary evil, so to speak, to achieve reintegration, otherwise one will never get there, or that certain conditional releases will sooner or later be necessary to allow someone to re-integrate. The alternative is not to do so and to tell someone that he is free at the end of the sentence, from today to tomorrow. It doesn't work. I fully share your view that we need to work on this and that we need resources to do so. And I think there are too few resources at the moment. That is our common responsibility. There must be additional resources for a meaningful interpretation of this imprisonment, but also for psychological guidance and psychological care. Your call has been very clear in that regard. Minister, I have heard that a number of party chairmen are in favour of making the criminal court competent for the assessment of penitentiary engagements. It is a bit of my experience that the criminal courts with the tasks they now have are already over-questioned. That's my personal experience. I do not know how other people in this committee see that, but they are already very heavily burdened. If we were to change the legal assessment of penitentiary leave, we could, that is not a problem, then these criminal courts would have to assess thousands of additional files per year. Minister, if that is the case, it is actually allowed to make a serious budgetary change and to release funds as quickly as possible, otherwise it will not work. That is a practical point. Everyone will agree that the necessary funds will then have to be allocated. But I'm not even convinced of the content. I started by saying that I think that prison directors and the administration that follows it are often much better informed and with much more knowledge of cases and empathy can judge penitentiary leave than when such files come before criminal courts on the basis of reports, because that is how it is going to have to be done, which the judge of the criminal court then reads and on which basis he then has to judge. So once again, my group wants to think about this, but we are not convinced that this will be a better or stricter way of assessing penitentiary engagement, quite the contrary. In this respect, I would therefore like to call for the greatest possible caution. Flame-flammation policy seems to justify giving that responsibility to the judges, and I know that the judges will accept that responsibility when they get it. They're not gifts. If we want to give those judges that responsibility, then we must provide them with the means to do so. I have a number of questions to ask. I'd like to talk about the follow-up during the sentence. Penitentiary leave is included and conditional release, which is already in the criminal courts, is also included in a number of cases. I would like to stress once again that meaningful filling in the prison story is something that we really need to work on. You have often noticed this and now repeated it. However, there will also have to be resources for this. Other political levels will also have to take responsibility for this. It's about meaningful filling in while at the same time taking care of people and helping them. I have heard you say that up to a third of the prison population is sometimes considered to be in need of health care. Your idea of looking at prisons as health centers is not bad at all. On the contrary, it is very clear and sends a very good signal to do so. Allow me to come to the question of the end of the sentence. It can be said that the end of the sentence is there at the time when someone is simply at the end of his or her sentence. There are a number of inmates who are being made available at that time. That's obvious. That applies to those who have already been judged. Perhaps we should consider how we can develop more opportunities in this area in the future in the event of new convictions being imposed. That's what I'm looking for. However, at the moment we are simply dealing with a number of prisoners who do not have any additional measures in their condemnation and will indeed return to society from one day to the next. The only way at the moment to prevent ticking time bombs from returning to society is the possibility of internment. That's the only way. On that point, you have rightly given your support to the POC, which has been on the table for a long time. I am glad to hear that you do not want to wait any longer, but want to speed things up, so that we can come out faster with that Psychological Observation Centre, so that we can use the internment tool more quickly in certain cases. How are we going to keep people at the end of their sentence at the end of their sentence, if I may put it so flat, except through an internment? That is an important point. If, however, someone cannot be interned and he or she arrives at the end of his or her sentence, for example a radicalised one, I am looking at Mr Bonte, then a way must be sought to succeed those people. Then there are the local task forces. In one breath, Mrs De Wit also mentioned the LIVCs. Mrs De Wit states that the LIVCs are often still in an early stage. I believe that I am also looking at Mr Bonte on this point that the LIVCs are already doing a good job in certain places and are following very closely the various individual dossiers, to the extent that the LIVCs are informed about them. I speak now for my own municipality and for a number of municipalities and cities that I know will follow. Name by name and month per month will be looked at what a person has been up to for days. The LIVCs are even called up ad hoc in case of signals. I think that the local integrated safety cells do take their responsibility. From the local task forces, which I think means something else, I don't know how they work. I can only speak as mayor and from that capacity I know how the LIVCs work. If the follow-up of people who are released and who can no longer be subject to conditions is granted to such initiatives and bodies, then resources must be set aside, otherwise it will lead to nothing again. It's as simple as that. It is therefore quite clear that today, when I hear everyone in the committee and also last Thursday in the plenary, unanimous agreement that all of this must be done, resources will have to be provided. Minister, I think you, as Minister of Justice, are already pleased with the support that you will undoubtedly receive for increasing the means for the execution of sentences and for the supervision of the prisons in the following times. Mr President, those are the points I wanted to make at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u13	Mr President, Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the clarity you have shown in relation to the criminal course of the person concerned and the way in which the sentence was executed. With regard to the facts and the course as you have outlined, I have three specific questions. First, the judgment of the criminal enforcement court was revoked or dropped. Do I understand correctly that the case file of the person concerned was then no longer dealt with by the criminal court? The lapse of that decision dates back to 2016. Has the criminal court made any decision since then and so far in its file? Secondly, the person concerned had a serious problem of addiction. Is it true that he was referred externally for the treatment in the context of his exit permits and leave? In other words, between the periods of recidivism and the last leave, could he in one way or another deal with this problem, or was there any work on the underlying problem that was apparently there? I have a third question. I have already mentioned this in plenary. I understand that the information provided by the various services relating to the radicalisation of the man, the Security of the State, the OCAD, the parquet and the Extremism cell within the prison system, separately and together, did not lead to the inclusion of that man on one of the lists of radicalised or particularly follow-up persons managed by the various services. If a decision on leave is taken and a report from a guard arrives shortly before leave, will that information be tested centrally? That's the reverse motion. One gets a report from a guard, perhaps not serious enough to take a decision to withdraw leave, will it then be passed on or will it be contacted with the central service? This information is put together with the information that is centrally managed or which may be classified as information from the Security of the State that does not reach the prison, but it does exist. Is this what they're gonna call it? That could be a point of interest in the future. If there is even the slightest information coming in and someone will leave the prison, that information would also have to go the other way, to the central service. That's a question I'm asking myself. Minister, I am not going to comment on the individual dossier. It's not for me to say anything about that. I assume that the various services have made difficult decisions in conscience and that it is impossible to predict the past of the future. That does not change the fact that this does not come out of the sky, you know our position on this matter, that we may ask ourselves questions about the execution of the sentence and that we must and may express concerns, just to do it better. This has nothing to do with hints about who could or should have done what at what time, but to do it better. You've already expressed your intentions in response to your justice plan. Even then, we immediately expressed our position on this matter and expressed our concerns. A punishment imposed, certainly a custodial sentence, is imposed for different purposes. It is an ultimate means when any alternative to the judge who makes the decision appears to be inadequate and so one must protect society with a custodial sentence. It is true that this punishment also has a rewarding character, namely disapproval of what has been done to the victims and society. The intention is very important, because this is what we are talking about today to do with general prevention and special prevention. We must not lose sight of the general prevention or the deterrent effect of the punishment. Take the dissuasive effect to also implement short sentences effectively. That's how a custodial sentence becomes a custodial sentence. What else should society think about a punishment imposed when one de facto sees the person in question walking freely? This has a deterrent effect, as was pointed out once again in this committee in connection with the hearings by the chairman of the investigators. He referred to the Netherlands, where the decision was taken in 2008-2009 to implement those penalties effectively. The result: a surplus of more than 2 000 cells in the Netherlands and falling crime rates. The result is that guards are on strike in the Netherlands, not because they have to guard with too few sentenced persons, but because there are not enough sentenced persons because of less crime. That is a strike I would like to see again, Minister. I fully support the fact that we have to work on re-socialisation and that important legislative work has been done in the past. It is about re-socialization, preparing for reintegration into society, starting from day one in prison with the person concerned. However bad the facts that have been committed cannot be left to themselves and the outside world in order to find work, find a new place of residence, contact with society and so on. We still have a long way to go there. The examples of how things could be different and better and of what sometimes or often goes wrong are many. However, I do not want to dwell too long on this today. As far as leave and exit permits are concerned, I believe that they are within a process of reintegration. Exit permits or engagements actually do not in themselves contribute much to the prevention of recurrence. This has been demonstrated very recently by a 2018 doctorate that Luc Robert defended at the KUL. Apparently, he has been involved in, among other things, the first national investigation in relation to recidivism. 14 754 sentenced persons were succeeded. This showed that 44% of them returned to prison after their release. What conclusion was reached? There is actually no difference between those who have been punished and those who have enjoyed some form of release during their detention. If we are dealing with people who do not want to work on their underlying problems, if there is no re-socialisation plan, who are not interested in taking courses, then the question arises whether we should, experimentally, attempt to release someone, with all the risks and possible consequences? This is a question we must ask ourselves. At least in the period in which someone is staying in prison, he will not have committed any new facts. Assessing the risk, and paying a lot of attention to it, is in the law. You have repeated it repeatedly, Minister, there is no zero risk. I won't say that either. But I believe that we should not take unnecessary risks. We must work with those involved in prisons, and the release, under whatever condition or form, must always be the result of an integral re-socialisation plan. There must be sufficient follow-up and control for that. I would like to hear you say that it goes wrong in 3 % of cases, or in some cases. There we are sure that new crimes have been committed. But many of our systems of release have very little follow-up and control. Do we know if things turned out okay there? Do we know if there haven't been any crimes? If we do not follow and monitor properly, we will never know and we will never be able to rule properly. Minister, I am pleased to hear your proposal to work with standardised conditions. You spoke of standardized conditions in the context of deradicalisation. I'd like to see it much wider. I believe that we should give opportunities to people who are willing to adapt their behaviour, who are willing to return to society in such a way that they can function in society, people who work on their underlying problems, to their underlying problems. Those who are not prepared to take steps in this area and to follow the necessary therapy may no longer need to be given opportunities if there is a risk of recurrence. Minister, as far as the jurisdiction of the criminal court is concerned and our question or suggestion to extend the jurisdiction of the criminal court to the penitentiary leave and the exit permits is concerned, the following. In any case, a judge would have to take such decisions without regard to any administrative purpose. Such a decision must be tested in the context of an integral re-socialisation plan. One has to work with a single file like this in the framework of the family court. I know that the comparison is not entirely correct, but somehow the key to the classified information should be made possible. I think this is important. The question raised is whether this will cost more money. Today, too, different services have to judge this. We have all been able to see that there are two services, not only the local, but also the central management, which must come to a decision separately. This includes sentenced persons who change institutions. Apparently this also applied to the person concerned; he was also apparently once transferred to another prison. What was the reason for this? I therefore call for a central service, and I would prefer to call for a criminal court. Those who decide that punishment was necessary should be given responsibility and decision-making power to state about freedom. I'll come to the extended penitentiary leave. Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to make this point again. This is a measure that has been implemented in a management manner. There is neither follow-up nor control. This is in fact contrary to the rules according to which leave may be granted only 3 times 36 hours per trimester. A sufficiently broad framework is hopefully a concern that we all share to work in prison on resocialisation and drug problems. After all, many crimes are drugrelated or have to do with an ever worse or slippery criminal behavior. Why not make drug tests possible in prison? Guidance and treatment should also be able to be accompanied by monitoring. Justice assistants cannot impose these controls, but perhaps we should organise them in prison in one way or another, in such a way that they can be controlled in prison, without the police having to come into the house. I assume that everyone will have the willingness to think about this together. To give standardised conditions and opportunities to those who deserve them seems to me to be steps in the right direction. We are also pleased to welcome your penal code. Our views on this were not always the same, but by discussing and paying attention to joint concerns and attitudes, we will hopefully come to a law that can be the basis for better punishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u14	Mr President, I will be very brief; Mr Bonte will ask four questions after me, with your agreement. Minister, you have talked a lot, but you have said little about the victims. The first question is when will you submit a royal decision to the Council of Ministers to regard the act as an act of terrorism, so that the victims' families can have access to, inter alia, the simplified procedure for the Victims' Fund. Even though I have listened to your long explanation, I am left with a lot of unanswered questions, all of which can be traced back to the next question. How in God's name is it possible that someone who has been mentioned twice in the State Security Reports on radicalised persons, who has been mentioned in several police reports and on whom also a report has been prepared by a guard who has strong indications of his radicalisation, is still receiving penitentiary leave? You underline that, after analysis, the security services concerned thought that Benjamin Herman was too light to be included in the database. I still want to understand that, and I also assume that that decision was not taken lightly. However, there remains an important question. Last Thursday, you stated in Parliament that the OCAD wanted to reduce the number of people on the list to far below 1 000, so that the database would remain operational. Your fellow Minister, Mr Jambon, said immediately that it was not true that the OCAD would have been given the objective of limiting the list of persons to less than 1 000 people. I don't get it anymore. Then who's gonna say what's right? I wonder why the Minister responsible is saying that this database may at least contain more than 1 000 names, when you say that there should only be 1 000. I'd like to get an answer to that question. I can understand why the person in question might have been found too light for the database. What I cannot understand, however, is that if two days before that penitentiary leave a report from a guard reporting at least a serious risk of radicalisation is not considered to suspend or withdraw that leave. That remains the essential question for me. Then I'll get that report from the guard. You said, after many calls from colleagues, "That was a small report, in which a number of walks and contacts in an open regime in the prison of Marche-en-Famenne are briefly described, without any qualifications attached thereto. This is contrary to previous media coverage, in which it is clearly stated that Herman continued to hang out with a radicalized prisoner, who was known to be extremely dangerous, so dangerous that in theory he would not be released until 2040. The report on Saturday refers to a change in Mr Herman's behaviour under the influence of these contacts. Minister, you said that you can only repeat what the prison director reported to you and that you did not know the note yourself. In the meantime, have you read that note from the guard himself and is it really as brief and banal as you made it appear? You have just said that there is a mention of radicalisation in the edge. We're wondering what the edge is trying to say. I also find it strange that, because the information is not considered important, it is not passed on to the Department of Detention Management, which decides whether to withdraw or suspend the exit permit, but to the security services. Something doesn't add up. I assume that when such a report is produced, it will be checked that the data subject is present in the database. I also assume that there is a list of people who were screened by the security services, but who were then found to be too light to actively follow up. If it turns out that someone has just been found to be too light and there are four new reports coming up, two from State Security, a police report and a guard's report, then one would think that all the lights would jump red in order not to let the prisoner in question go on leave. The person was no longer actively followed for a while and was found too light, they say. So he's been free for a while. Before that person is released, we must then check what has happened and then perhaps we should not let him go any further. Minister, you said that it might surprise us that under your legislature an additional possibility was created to withdraw the exit permit. That does not surprise us at all, quite the contrary. That is exactly the heart of the debate. Shouldn't the Department of Detention Management have used this on the basis of the guard's report not to let that person go? I would also refer to the trend in the increasing number of penitentiary leave grants. You are hiding behind the fact that this trend has been waged before your time. Today, however, we have to note that your savings can reduce the number of staff employed and that the control of leave can be less guaranteed. Is it not your job to reduce these penitentiary engagements, so that proper control can be achieved, before we send prisoners from prison into our society? I would also like to address the issue of radicalisation in prison. You say that you have taken a lot of measures to tackle the phenomenon. We hear that radicalised people are kept isolated in separate wings. We hear that you have made sure that the security officers and the psychological and social assistants receive more training. However, we cannot ignore the fact that your savings on staff have led to the fact that these measures are not effective enough. We have to establish that under your policy there are 200 cells empty, 60 of which are in Bruges prison, where high-risk prisoners are inmates. Is it true that the training on radicalisation takes ten hours for the new penitentiary staff, eight hours of theory and two hours of practice? That seems to me to be very little. If the training on radicalisation has more hours, is that only for the employees employed on the specific wings, or is that for all the prison staff? After all, it is precisely the employees who do not work in those wings who can notice very important signals. Minister, you also said in your speech that Benjamin Herman would have been released in 2020 anyway and that it was therefore better to prepare him for that return to society. I do not think that reasoning is entirely correct, because is it not up to the Justice Department to ensure that everyone who has been radicalised and is a major risk factor to turn their thoughts into action, just keep them out of society? A person such as Benjamin Herman must never be released, even if he has served his sentence in full. For such cases there is an additional penalty of posting. The Committee of Inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016 recommended that the optional posting should be extended to cover all terrorist offences. This is a solution for perpetrators of terrorist acts after the entry into force of that legislation. However, it is not a solution for the terrorist offenders who have already been convicted and are serving their sentence at the moment, nor for the offenders who have already been convicted of crimes other than terrorism and who radicalise during their prison time. My colleague Mr Bonte has already mentioned on several occasions that there should also be a system of posting for those latter categories of persons. Minister, do you agree? If so, how will you do that? If not, why not? How do you think that such a system can be developed while respecting the fundamental rights and human rights of every condemned person? Finally, I would like to comment very briefly on your decision on penitentiary leave. Your communication shows that that decision was made on the basis of a social report by the judicial assistants on the home situation of the mother and sister of the person concerned, who had established a positive evolution. Does it mean that that decision was made solely on the basis of the findings of the mother and sister in the social report? Surely such a decision should be made on the basis of all the information available, such as information from psychosocial services and advice from the prison director, but certainly also the reports from the Extremism Cell and the reports from the guards? On what date was that decision made? How was that person checked during the time he was allowed to leave prison? Minister, in your speech I have been able to hear in detail what is going to happen in the area of care and infrastructure. Of course we support that. However, today's debate must address the question of how it is possible that so much information has not come into the right place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u15	Minister, I would like to ask four more questions. In general, I would like to say first of all, as last Thursday, that taking responsibility for this is a good analysis of what has gone wrong and to try to take more effective measures to prevent such cases from occurring. I know, of course, that risks cannot be ruled out 100%, but I believe that we can rule out a lot more than we do today. I therefore hope that this time we do not have such a thing as major political debates that then stick in good intentions with little implementation. I really hope so. We have experienced too much in recent years, with the exception of a number of laws of symbolism, that the indignation is getting away very quickly and making way for the practical balance policy that this country needs but which is not committed to efficiency. A first question on this is a very small one. We have already debated it a great deal. It concerns the importance of the exchange of information. I did this last Thursday, too. It would be only natural that if someone with that profile gets penitentiary leave, the police department chief will be informed in advance. I don't know if that happened, but I hope so. It has been repeatedly established that this is not the rule. That is why I have tabled a legislative proposal on this subject, which is also unusual. I hope, Minister, that you will be able to respond positively. The question of whether or not this man should be on the OCAD list is a very creepy question. I would like to comment on what Mr Terwingen said about LIVCs. Minister, as mayor, I would be extremely uncomfortable if we were only to succeed LIVC for the people on the OCAD list. I'd be very worried.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u16	I'm not saying that. The spectrum and ambition to do preventive things also require us, to have a certain level of safety, to go wider than purely those labeled by the OCAD. Last weekend, when I followed the debate on the efforts of the deradicalisation officials in prisons, it became clear that their work is concentrated only on the people in the Deradex wing. That really is a small minority of the radicalized in prisons. We should not draw a picture: we are at great risk if we do not deal with all the radicalised people in the prisons. Minister, you can argue that prisons are too voluntary, that drug-addicted prisoners are too free to follow rehab programmes, and that radicalised prisoners are too free to follow Deradex programmes, but today there are only two Flemish officials who deal with a small number of radicalised prisoners in the Deradex wing. I'll come back to that later. You can say that everything is too voluntary, but today you do not have the capacity to deradicalise in prisons, even though all the actors in prisons, without distinction, ask for it. I hope that people can see that now. I will certainly come back to that later. I would like to return to the small debate we held in plenary on the OCAD list. In 2015 and 2016, a few more people left for Syria. After that, it completely stopped. However, this does not mean that the problem of radicalisation has stopped. I know that people have been struggling in the safety chain since then to handle the categories on the OCAD list. There were five categories, but the category that everyone in the world is talking about, namely the home grown terrorists and the hate preachers we have been discussing for so long in this House, was there constant discussion between the security services. I remember hours of discussions about whether someone should be viewed as a home grown terrorist or not. The security services, which by definition are required to comply with the law, point out that they do not have the legal basis for this. Maybe they should put someone on that list, but they don't have the legal basis for that. Last Wednesday, after the drama in Liège, I noticed that a royal decision suddenly appeared that should provide a legal basis to allow the security services, without getting into a legal swamp, to put a number of people on the OCAD list. It is now waiting for a letter to be sent to the prosecutors, to security services such as State Security, to police forces, to federal services. In short, we have already experienced a great deal in this country, but until today it is still waiting for that legal basis in that country. Mr. Secretary, I hope that base will be there soon. The question I would like to ask is: where is this circular letter? Perhaps today you can lift a hint of the veil about what definition of home grown terrorist one will use, and what definition of hate preacher? I am asking this because the man who caused the misery in Liège could be a good example of a home grown terrorist. In other words, from a criminal past with criminal cases in the flesh, converting and radicalising in prison. It's almost a typical example of what literature describes as a home grown terrorist. Perhaps you could give us a tip of the veil and give us the definition that we may very soon get through a circular letter. I'd like to touch something else, Minister. If you say "a," say "b." There is a very interesting debate going on. I share your appreciation for the prison director of Hasselt. However, if we take it seriously to make progress in prisons, capacity will have to be added. There will then have to be effective psychological guidance, as you indicate. Then, however, something will have to be done about drug problems, more than a symbolic drug-free wing such as Hasselt or Beveren. Something more will have to be done. I hear you here arguing for district health centers. Not so long ago, we had a glowing debate here with the Minister of Health because this was a saving post. I am quite right to hear you argue that we need to pay more attention to the health situation in prisons. Investment will therefore have to be made. This brings me to the problem of cooperation. You refer to the cooperation agreements with the regions, but I heard it thunder in Cologne when you said about the succession of people who are released that the deradicalisation officials also play a role in that group. I have the job description of the Flemish deradicalisation officials here with me, she can be picked from the website. It would take us too far to read them out here in the long and broad sense, but what this man and that woman currently have to do: problem analysis, conversations, policy preparation work, information and advice, individual guidance plans, guidance and follow-up, making needs analyses, developing services, providing advice to local policy teams in prisons and to management, communicating and contacting all service providers in Flanders, acquiring knowledge about their field of expertise, participating in projects. Minister, these people are doing perhaps one tenth of their job description today, namely individual guidance for a limited group. I hear everywhere that they do this brilliantly, but in addition, once someone is free, it becomes the responsibility of a local task force, which at least meets once a month. Afterwards, the LIVCs may follow up. Just two hours ago, all the mayors received an e-mail from the VVSG to make an evaluation of their LIVC. So that problem is not settled. It is not the case that a city or a local task force can call on those deradicalisation officials. That's not true. So don't say that, unless you have the absolute ambition to do so, then I support you in getting it done, but that means that there must be a solution to the biggest problem facing the deradicalisation officials, namely that they miss a lot of colleagues. Today we are unable to deal with the list of radicalised prisoners in prisons, the much larger group, the hundreds to which you referred, let alone a preventive policy. Minister, if you say "a," say "b." I hope we do not have to say again that it has come up for a while, but that it is now going down again. Finally, I have a purely informative question about prison supervision. You know that's one of my stickhorses. I have gathered some more information about life in prisons, which as a context prove particularly fruitful for despair, lack of perspective and radicalisation. With the law of December 2016, we have deleted the existing supervision within the department. We unanimously indicated last Thursday, for which I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, that the establishment of the Supervisory Board, by the Chamber, should be progressing. Mr Verherstraeten, you pointed out to me that without my knowledge, a number of legal obstacles had to be removed in the Chamber. It turns out that's going to happen soon. Minister, is there a budget for the establishment? The Conference of Presidents and the Government were constantly pinging about this, saying that it could not give a budget if we did not say what we wanted to do. Parliament said again that it does not know what to do, because the budget is not known. I hope that that stage is over and that the budget change that is coming will provide an answer to that. What budget has been allocated for this purpose? I hope that the budget will not delay it. As far as my second element is concerned, I am in any case addressing the members of the majority who are also members of the Bureau. I hope that we have come to the end of the administrative misery by removing the last legal obstacles and that we are already in the process of dealing with it for a long time now. How will people be addressed? How will this work? How will be reported? After all, let me be. The major problem of radicalisation is largely linked to the miserable living conditions, the problems of addiction, the lack of perspective and the lack of coherence between the services provided by federal services and regional services. It is therefore high time for an elected Parliament to take an eye on the lowest and most difficult side of society to avoid, if only for reasons of security, that we should be able to draw up another portrait of this kind here in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u17	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your explanation. I have a number of general reservations and I would also like to return to a number of questions. After all, I have tabled a whole series of questions, albeit a little late, to which I have not yet received an answer, at least to some of them. As I said in plenary last Thursday, there is a problem with our punishment. You referred to this, but you dare not repeat it yourself, which I do understand. There are three major problems in this area. The first problem is the exchange of information between services. That is not new, because the parliamentary committee of inquiry has also established this. You have given a detailed overview of the progress and applications for penitentiary leave, night-time permits, etc., and of the opinions and decisions. It is essential, however, to ask what the services knew when they took the decisions, and we have hardly received any answers. I will go into this in more detail later. A second problem concerns deradicalisation in prisons. Several fellow Members have already spoken about this. I have also said on Thursday that we have actually lost ten years in this area. In 2005-2006, a plan R was adopted with a section on radicalisation in prisons. This was, among other things, the result of the Trabelsi case, the first known person to be recruited in prison. However, we have found that, since the 2005 R plan, little or nothing has actually happened for ten years. It is only in 2015-2016 that effective work has been done on this. There is therefore a huge backlog to be made up. I believe that there are motivated people now and that you are doing training, but I am afraid that we will not catch up on a ten-year delay in a number of years. A third problem is work on reintegration into prisons. I have already given an example of the basic law of 2005, which provides for an individual detention path. I am very glad that this will finally be done and that there is a design of KB. That's not a moment too soon. If, in the longer term, we want to work towards the reintegration of prisoners into society, which is independent of those who are convicted of terrorism or suspects, but, in general, we really need to invest in the prisoners, we really need to ensure that an individual path is developed so that very specific problems can be addressed. However, this means investing, investing, investing in suitable infrastructure and in staff. You may know that you are also heading in the direction that this will not always work in mastodon prisons. Differentiation of punishment is essential there. We have recently laid down the legal basis for the transition houses in a first reading of the law several provisions. You know that we are in favour of a small-scale approach in order to be able to truly tailor-made with inmates. Call it a transition house, a detention house or whatever. I think that this is the way forward, but again, this requires a lot of investment. Many measures have been suggested in recent days. You referred to some of them. The most important thing is the role of the criminal court. I am also a little surprised at certain pleas made by some parties who now say that the criminal court should have more to say. The legal basis for that criminal enforcement court and the criminal enforcement court was laid by laws of ten years ago, of 2006. The entry into force of this legislation has always been postponed. That is not only your responsibility, but of all the Justice Ministers since the law was passed more than ten years ago. However, I am pleased that everyone is now saying that they want to give a role to the criminal execution court and the criminal execution court and even to add powers that were not originally planned, as included in your draft law in the context of the execution of the sentence. Let's get to work on that, but again, cooking costs money. If we want to give the criminal justice system more tasks, this means that there will have to be more execution courts, a framework is needed, opinions will have to be drawn up, information flow will have to be flowed and there will be a cost again. In other words, we will have to invest seriously in justice, in punishment, in equipment and in people, otherwise it will not work. We will not see the results tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or next month, but only in a few years' time. It is therefore investing today to see results in the longer term. What worries me, however, is the debate on the measures to be taken after detention. I am well aware that we are facing a huge and difficult issue. This has also been a point of discussion in the Committee of Inquiry. What do we do with radicalised persons after detention? Radicalism itself is not a criminal offence. We cannot condemn people because they have radical ideas, but we will have to follow them in one way or another in order to avoid going back to dangerous behaviour. The role of the local task forces and the Local Integral Safety Cells has been mentioned, but also the Security of the State, the district agent and others, will play a role in this. We are facing enormous challenges there. I should like to warn against the balloons that are being elated, but then it is decided to make those persons available to the government after serving their sentence. You're afraid to say that a particular idea isn't really possible. I understand that in your position, Minister. You have made it quite clear that there may be a small problem of a legal nature within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. After all, once someone has served his sentence, it is difficult to give an additional punishment. Unless it becomes an administrative measure, as you said, but it falls within the competence of the Minister of the Interior. That's when the coalition partner is being looked at. In other words, has there been any reflection in the government on the path to be chosen? And is this slope legally consistent with the human rights provisions and respects our fundamental rights for a minimum? I want a good solution, too. We will have to tackle this problem, but this must be done within the legal framework. This seems essential to me. Minister, I have asked 28 very specific questions, of which I have been able to tick five or six. So many questions have not been answered. I hope you will soon be able to provide more information. There have been many references to the two State Security Reports. Those reports would have been forwarded to the OCAD and CelEx, the administration within the prison system. Have any other services received these reports? What exactly was in the reports? Can those passages be transmitted literally? I am also pleased, by the way, that both the P Committee and the I Committee have been involved in carrying out an investigation. I assume that these aspects will also be examined by them. When did those reports start? In chronology it is clear. Is it about reports from 2016 or 2017? Are those very recent reports from 2018? When were they delivered to the OCAD and CelEx? When did the OCAD decide after analysis not to include the data subject in the database? These are very specific questions which I believe are essential when we want to look at the chronology in depth. In this way we may be able to find out whether the information existed when a particular person had to make a certain decision on a given day. After all, existing information can only be taken into account and information can only be shared if it is available to oneself. Last Thursday, the Prime Minister informed us that the person or department who decided on the penitentiary leave, I quote: '...n'avait pas connaissance des informations livrées dans ce rapport de la Sûreté de l'État'. The person who made the decision therefore had no knowledge of this information. Did he possibly have the police intelligence report or any other information from the penitentiary officers? Exactly what reports did this person have? What reports didn't he have? About the police information report you just answered that it should date from March 2017, so more than a year ago, and that it would have been discussed on a local task force, a LTF. I have a problem with the following. I also asked this question on Thursday. It is said that the two state security reports were then reviewed by CelEx and the OCAD. It is said that the police's information was reviewed by the local task force. And people don't know exactly what happened to the guards' information. It is essential to know, and that is also a conclusion of the parliamentary committee of inquiry...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is a typical example of breeding. One information is analysed somewhere at a certain level. Another is police and is discussed in the local task force, where state security should be present. However, since I do not know the date of the state security information, we cannot check whether state security, when it was present in the local task force, could link the police information with its information. It is essential in this debate that the information should be brought together and that a risk assessment is made on the basis of all the elements. If all this happens separately, one does not have a total view, one does not have a helicopter vision. And then there could be trouble. Minister, I have asked several questions about this. I think it is essential that we have a clear answer to that. Then I'll come to the quartermaster's report. There are a lot of questions about that too. Was that the first report of the penitentiary officers on the subject? Weren't there any other reports that indicated radicalisation before? What happened to that information? I also had questions about the empty cells, but you have already answered them. I will conclude with the individual detention plan, which you have already mentioned in the first part. Do you have any more information about the exact timing? When could the Royal Decree enter into force? What is needed to enable this royal decision to enter into force effectively? It concerns the resources to be made available, both financially and in terms of the number of full-time equivalents. Are these resources available and promised by the government? It is good that you are coming up with a draft royal decision, but I hope that the necessary resources will be available. I hope to get answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u18	Mr President, I will add a few points. Thank you, Minister, for your briefing and additional information on the facts of last Thursday. I will highlight three specific points which I would like to highlight in addition to my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke. Many other points have already been raised by other colleagues this afternoon. In our view, the whole of what has been described by the minister, who has reminded us of Mr Herman's past and judicial background, is very enlightening in relation to the type of individual profile we are dealing with here and which has always seemed to be in extremely serious and deep difficulties. The element that we consider important and on which we would like to have more details is the exchange of information or all the documents that were available to the people who appreciated the case and made the decisions on the granting of prison leave and which concerned the link between Mr Herman and radicalism and his potential radicalisation within the prison. He himself had converted within the prison because of the contacts he had had with other detainees. It is this element that seems decisive, in any case in the reports that have been made in the last weeks before granting prison leave. It is important for us to have all the elements that have been transmitted by the head of custody of the prison and, above all, to know what kind of information the director of the prison administration had at the time of making his decision. For that very moment, everything has not yet been fully clarified. I hear Mrs Onkelinx suggesting, for example, a time line. This could indeed be very interesting to take stock of all the elements and when they were disposed of and by what type of person. To which entity has this information been transmitted? This could help us to understand the entire process that led to the decision to grant prison leave. With regard to this element of radicalism, we are interested in Mr Herman's contacts with other radicalised detainees – which has been confirmed. Some people were tracked and recorded. What kind of monitoring is in place, in a specific way or with the role of other institutions, for these people? I am thinking in particular of the Sûreté, the OCAM. With regard to those persons with whom he had been reported, with whom he had discussed or, in any case, had been in contact, it is useful to have more specific information than we have at this stage, as this is ultimately part of the important global context here. The second point that I want to draw attention to, and which is essential to me, relates to the many proposals that you are making. We are always open to discussing possible improvements. However, at this stage, basically, we do not have the impression that it is new laws, new legal arrangements that are likely to improve the situation, at least in the very short term. A lot of texts already exist. I am thinking, in particular, of the 2005 law of principles and the commitment you made to implement the royal decrees relating thereto. I am also thinking of the implementation of the individual detention plan, which would make it possible to have a much more precise follow-up, not only of the path of each inmate but also of everything that is put in place (or not well enough put in place) to prepare them for their release, since the vast majority of them will naturally come out one day. For us, this law of principles, which has been passed, absolutely must be implemented. I repeat that you have committed yourself to putting in place the royal decrees that have not yet been taken. I would therefore like to know if you can confirm a timing in this regard, knowing that this is really fundamental in the overall policy of re-integration of prisoners. This brings me to the third point that I wish to develop here, namely budgetary considerations and financial resources. You said that everything is not budget and that other things can be considered without increasing financial resources. This may be true, but without additional resources, nothing seems possible at this stage with regard to all the avenues for solutions that we have been able to suggest. So you said that you would go to your colleagues during the next budgetary control to ask for additional resources, and that you have already done so, which I find very clear. In this regard, it is really necessary to have the additional budgets you intend to ask for in detail. You mentioned a number of leads. I have selected three at this stage, but we know very well how much all the teams, all the departments are in demand. I am thinking in particular of a strengthening of the "Extremism" cell which was created by the action plan against radicalism and which now employs three full-time equivalents. In addition, the infrastructure needs to be improved, but we are also thinking about the commitment of staff. We need to invest in the human – prison officers among others. In the budget requests, is there a commitment to these types of profiles that are lacking in our prisons today? For, in order to link up with my previous remarks, the implementation, enforcement and implementation of the law of principles and its royal decrees will require important means to implement the implementation of these individual detention plans. We will not be able to embark on a structural improvement in our prison policies, mainly with regard to support for prisoners and preparation for re-integration upon release from prison, unless substantial financial resources are invested. We regularly repeat this here or in other political discussions and debates. It seems to me that if such a financial effort is not made, nothing will be possible. If you already have a plan for your budget requests that you intend to make to the government, we would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u19	Mr President, Mr Minister, I think we are all well aware that dramatic events, such as those that took place in Liège, will take place again one day. Some things are not inevitable, while others are. We have to find and implement the formulas, the right texts and the good practices that will allow us to reduce the risks. As long as man and society are what they are, unfortunately we will still have to endure and manage these kinds of facts. In the context of On and Liège, two hypotheses are presented to us. Either we are in the situation where Mr Herman was considered radicalised, an option which the Federal Prosecutor's Office seems to have taken, considering that we are, at this stage, in the context of attacks linked to terrorism or radicalisation. Either we might one day consider that we were not in that context but in a situation of common law. In both cases, it is a failure – I explain to myself – and we must draw the consequences of this failure to see how to improve things still tomorrow. Let us imagine that Mr Herman was indeed in the profile of radicalised people. We have a feeling that it helps us to better understand things, to better understand them, and perhaps to get them into public opinion, as long as we can get these things into public opinion. We would put this in a "large package" that we have unfortunately been confronted with for a number of months or even years now: it is linked to radical Islamism; it is linked to terrorism; it is linked to attacks that want to destabilize our Western societies. Yeah, maybe. But, if so, what are the elements that make it possible to retain this radicalization profile? You have referred to this on several occasions, and the honourable Members have pointed out that Mr Herman's name appears in fact sheets. He is not considered as being radicalised in his personal capacity, but as having been in contact with radicalised people. Minister, my first question is this. I think that, so far, the answer has not been given or I have not heard or understood it. Was this information, which appears indirectly in the records, known to the director of the prison in Marche-en-Famenne who had to give an opinion to the prison administration in order for it to decide on this famous prison leave? Did the administration know this information contained in this sheet? Or, on the contrary, neither the management of the prison nor the administration were aware of it because Mr Herman was quoted only indirectly and was therefore not considered to have been registered. This first question seems important to me. If that is the case, would it not be in our interest to ensure that this type of information is also brought to the attention of those who are required to make decisions on limited detention or prison leave, whether it is the enforcement court or the administration? If Mr. Herman was radicalized, who detected this radicalization? How was his profile developed? Who have been in contact with him and who have radicalized him? I think my colleague Dallemagne will speak more about this. But we do not have the feeling that in Marche-en-Famenne there is an abundance of prisoners with a radical profile, these being rather located, I believe, in the prisons of Ittre and Hasselt which have a Deradex section. There are indeed a few other satellite prisons where we can find these radicalised people, but we all agree that they may have to be kept out of order to avoid "contamination". The idea has been circulating at one point to centralize all these people in one place to prevent them from being in contact with other detainees and to prevent this "contamination". Where are we in relation to that? What lessons can be learned from Ittre and Hasselt's experiences? Are there evaluations? Are these understandable, acceptable, acceptable and proven solutions? Or, on the contrary, is it necessary, as has sometimes been said, to "spray" all these people in different places to prevent them from regrouping? Grouping them together can also strengthen their radicalization. And dispersing them might be a risk of "contaminate." Have the mechanisms put in place been evaluated to date? In general, even in Marche-en-Famenne, a radicalized profile may have appeared, how is it done in prisons without a Deradex section to try to understand the phenomenon and prevent it? How are our directions formed? How are our prison guards trained? Psychologists, psychiatrists, facilitators, and prison visitors are involved in understanding the environment in which they work or volunteer. We can learn from it. How is this going? How is this centralized? How do the information end up going back to the directions, to the administration and, perhaps, to the OCAM or the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office? I believe that these are fundamental and essential questions in order to better understand this phenomenon of radicalisation. Mr Minister, let us broaden the debate and assume for a moment that Mr Herman has kept to his first crime, or at least to what happened in On (even if he has not yet been convicted) and that he has not gone any further. He was the beneficiary of a prison leave. He committed an act just as reprehensible as the one he subsequently committed in Liège. We should also learn, beyond the question of radicalization, from our conception of the prison universe. I think we must conclude, and it is not because of this case, but because of previous cases, because of recidivism, the failure of the policy of imprisonment to everything goes. Minister, although I know that this is not your first approach, I have heard you say that it may be necessary to extend the length of the prison stay and to tighten the conditions of parole and prison leave. In view of what we have experienced, will keeping people within four walls better prepare them to face their return to social life when they have - whether they like it or not - served their sentence? When the court's decision has been enforced and the 42 or 43 radicalised have served their sentence, will they be kept in detention on the grounds that a war in Syria, Libya or elsewhere is taking place? I have heard some argue that they should be kept in prison as long as this type of conflict persists. But in what form, under what legislation, on the basis of what constitutional principle? Will our rule of law really take the lead? Minister, I would like you to respond to my next concern. You said that we might have to follow this path if those concerned refused any treatment. What do you mean by that? Are you looking for medical treatment? You mentioned cases of sexual assault, the perpetrators of which are treated medically. With regard to cases of radicalisation, does such a method allow society to protect itself from such a danger? Would it justify holding people behind bars? That seems somewhat surprising to me. We can talk about everything and hear everything, but pushing into internment - only on the basis of this one criterion - leaves me puzzled. On the other hand, Minister, I consider that you have made an interesting argument. You don't think we can impose anything on anyone who's in prison. If he refuses to take part in training and to consider re-integration, there is nothing he can do about it. It seems to me that you are far too pessimistic. You have a "arm" - if you pass the phrase - which is contained in the law of principles: article 38, which deals with the individual detention plan. I know very well that the current wording of this article provides that this plan can only be implemented in agreement with the convicted person. Perhaps it would be appropriate to adapt the text, considering that the said plan constitutes a sine qua non for claiming adjustments to the penalty. It's a speech I can hear because it's a win-win thing. If we agree to give someone who is incarcerated an opportunity to prepare for their reintegration, knowing that society will benefit from it, we can link this to adjustments to their sentence. That doesn't shock me. Human rights would not be circumvented if such action were taken. Minister, I remember that less than 15 days ago, I tabled an amendment as part of a text that you proposed for us to bring into force this section that has existed since the 2005 Act. Today is 2018. I heard you say earlier that we're really going to have to go through that. This royal decree will therefore have to be taken. What's the point of this detention route? It is that it is started as soon as the person begins to serve his sentence. If she is sentenced to 15 years, she is not expected to meet the conditions of parole or to be asked for prison leave to start looking at how she would behave if she were released tomorrow. Today, what is done when an inmate requests punishment, prison leave or limited detention? He is asked what his reintegration plan is and is left alone with his lawyer and possibly with a few people of good will outside to try to find a job, a dwelling. It's way too late! The detention plan, as provided for in the 2005 Act, is an individualized plan that is implemented on the basis of the personality of the individual concerned, the actions he or she has taken, his or her social and family situation. Did he have a job? Does he have a degree of training? Can he read? Can he write? In short, a training programme is being adapted. Perhaps if we start doing this, we should not consider that all the people who made the prison are far worse when they leave than when they entered the prison, regardless of their personal background. We never gave each other that chance. Why? Because there is a lack of budgetary means, minister. We have implemented a whole series of principles of the 2005 law, principles that go in the direction of repression, confinement, and we have avoided – because it costs a little money – implementing everything that must accompany the sentence. This is not the first time we've talked about it in this committee. I am used to saying that the sentence has two aspects: the first is the punishment of a reprehensible act, allowing the person to say that what he or she has done is inadmissible and that he or she is punished for it, and the second is to use the time of the sentence so that the person can evolve, progress and be, when he or she comes out, better, or a little better, than when he or she has entered the prison. We will then have assumed our responsibilities as a society. That will not protect us from accidents, Minister. I'm well aware of that. But at least we will have done everything possible to ensure that the risks are limited and that these remain accidents which, unfortunately, will always take place. Minister, I have heard you and I urge you to release this royal decree very quickly. As Mr. Van Hecke five minutes ago, release the necessary budgetary resources! Will your government sign its agreement to finance this kind of thing? It takes money, and it is not included in your budget today. So you have to write it down. If you need the support of members of the Committee on Justice, I am prepared to grant you mine, as far as I am concerned. Others in this committee will also be ready to do so. We will have responded appropriately to the legitimate questioning of our fellow citizens. Yes, we must punish, but at the same time we must give hope, and we must allow people to get out of the situation in which they started at some point. It's any benefit to society.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u20	Mr President, I will speak very briefly, as my colleague has already developed a whole series of aspects. I would like to ask you a few specific questions, Minister. The first concerns what was called the recruiter, that is, the detainee in contact with Benjamin Herman. We could talk about those recruiters, because they could be more than one. When I asked you at the end of December 2017 about the number of radicalised prisoners in prison, you told me that the total number of radicalised prisoners in prison was about 425. You told me that 46 of them represented a serious threat to the radicalization of other inmates. You quoted this exact figure of 46 in December 2017. It is known that 22 of these detainees are in Deradex wings. This means that 24 detainees who, according to your figures, represent serious threats to the radicalization of other detainees, are dispersed in other prisons in the country. Where are these detainees located? Are they in these satellite prisons or other types of prisons? Is this number of 46 inmates who threaten to radicalize others still relevant? Were the inmates in contact with whom Benjamin Herman was one of those 46 detainees? If so, how do you appreciate the existing arrangements for these detainees today? Do the specific monitoring devices work? When were these recruiters identified as threatening other detainees through radicalization? What steps have been taken to prevent them from harming, to avoid contact? Did they continue to be observed, as did the State Security Service in its reports? Some have asked for the dates of these reports, but can we also know the conditions under which they were drafted, since it is known that the Sûreté does not have an officer in the prisons? What technical assistance has the Sûreté de l'Etat made available for the preparation of these reports? Have any measures been taken to prevent people who intoxicated Benjamin Herman from contaminating other detainees? I also agree with the questions on how prison leave has been granted. Beyond the social report you mentioned, what were the other reports? Who have made decisions? Were there any negative opinions or were the opinions unanimous so that Benjamin Herman could be released? I have before me the budget tables since the beginning of this government in the area of justice. I refer to the open letter from the president of the N-VA. He dares to say that there has been laxity for a number of years and that it has been necessary to reinvest, it is a fake news! It is this government that has drastically reduced the budgets for security and justice! We were 1.9 billion in justice in 2014, so we were executed. In 2017, we are at 1.8 billion, in current euros, so in constant euros. This further diminishes the ability to carry out initiatives in this area. And when we see, from year to year, we've cut your budget, Mr. Geens. We know that you denounced him at times by pleading that he was not enough. But the truth has its rights: from year to year, this government has reduced budgets for justice. We can do the same in other areas relating to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of Defence, as well. There was, therefore, an accelerated disinvestment in an area of which it is well known that it deserves much attention and reinvestment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u21	Mr. Brotcorne, I went a little fast, you weren't done?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u22	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to add a little bit of precision as we are identifying avenues for solutions. No one has touched on the subject, but why is the electronic bracelet, for example, not used more often in the case of prison leave or restricted detention? This could be a way to better control exits. One could simply say: "You will go through the House of Justice, you will go for a coffee with your social worker, you will go say hello to your parents, you will not drink alcohol..." We would have a slightly more precise and perhaps more relevant control.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u23	Mr President, a few points on this sensitive issue which brings us together today and which I think is really important. The first is the time line you put forward, minister. I think we have had a very detailed explanation of the various stages that ultimately lead a small offender to great delinquency in our prisons. On this side, it is clearly a record of failure. What amazes me, especially on the issue of radicalization, is that you stop your time line on the last 4 or 5 months. I was hoping more in your explanation. Much of the debate last Thursday was about what happened in the moments before Benjamin Herman's release, and we have not received any answers to this question today. On Thursday, in plenary, I asked you to take a position on the previous Friday's prison report. You did not address this question, saying vaguely that all this was part of the exchange with the State Security, with the police intelligence. But today, we don't have much more explanation about that. Minister, could you possibly make public this report of the prison officers and the management of the prison in Marche to judge for ourselves whether this information was irrelevant? You say basically that from the last request that dates, if I have noted correctly, in March 2018, there is an agreement for the prison leave and then on the exit itself. However, on the four- or five-month gap, you don't give us much explanation. We are talking about rapid radicalization and we know this kind of fertile soil. That is part of the problem, and we will come back to it later. In order to be able to judge whether it was appropriate to release Mr Herman, this period of time seems crucial to me. On the limit, I don't understand why you took 20 minutes to explain everything that's happened years ago and that you've been in 45 seconds over the last five months. There's a problem here. Don't you have that information? Don't we give them to you? Don't you want to give them to us? My request is very concrete. Could we, for example, receive, even in the form of an in camera – this can be discussed – the content of the judgment of the district chief and the management of the prison in Marche the week before the release? This information seems relevant to me. The second point that seems important to me is when you say, if I understood the substance of your remarks correctly, "I, my services are clear, with the elements we had, we would not have made another decision or for the same price we would have taken another one but there were no more variables possible." Accept, however, that most of the people who have to decide on this type of case think in a practical, concrete framework that is imposed on them! I would like to ask them this question: if you had had more time, more resources, if you had been able to do additional work, whether it was a mission or something, could that have influenced your decision? Indeed, it is the debate that is before us today. I understand that if a person has 25 files to follow, he or she will say that with the elements at his or her disposal, he or she could not make another decision. Minister, we are missing a response on this. That is what we should know. The aim is obviously not to load a lampist somewhere. The aim is to determine whether the system put in place could have avoided the error. I think we all agree that there was a mistake. Should we do a study? Should the time be allowed to send someone from the department to conduct this study? I don't know. I have a few very concrete questions to ask you. How many files do the different people who have taken positions have to deal with? This is a very concrete question, but I think it will give us an idea. You spoke twice about a social worker who had to decide whether or not Mr Herman could be granted prison leave. How many files does this person have to follow? I am obviously not asking for her name, but I would like to know what conditions she must work under. On the very question of what happened the week before, on the question of Yassine Dubi, you do not pronounce yourself, minister. It's still a question of contact with a recruiter. We wanted to have a position on your part. I have a few very specific questions about that issue, about what happened in Marche. Who made the choice that Yassine Dibi could reconnect with other prisoners? It seems important to me to know who made this decision. Was State Security involved? It's about Yassine Dibi. I am referring here to Yassine Dibi, who was not related in a file but on which the reports were related. Who made the decision that he could come back into contact with other people and according to what criteria? Has any additional personnel been deployed to track him down? Since then, is he still in the ordinary prison or under ordinary regime? I think that is an important point. Is Yassine Dibi still with other prisoners today or is he in a separate wing, especially after these facts? Minister, after the facts, has a decision been made with respect to Yassine Dubi? Or was it thought that he could continue to influence the prisoners around him at Marche-en-Famenne prison? That is an important question. Had Yassine Dibi been in a satellite prison or a De-Radex? I think that's important, too. Marche-en-Famenne looks like satellite prison to me. Have any other persons linked to Benjamin Herman been in a De-Radex or in a satellite prison? In the press we hear that Yassine Dibi had to be followed specifically only a week after his return. Is this true? Is that gonna be okay? I have a series of questions about potential radicalization at the end of the journey (not in the previous months). Your answers have not been complete on this subject. Third point. I can follow you in the debate about making more decisions in the sentencing court. For the PTB group, Justice's focus on the subject appears to be relevant even to FPS Justice officials. But the fundamental question is, nevertheless, the incredible amount of decisions to be taken. In plenary, you informed us of the number of requests for prison leave, which increased from 1,499 to 4,442. If, in addition, we agree here that it is necessary to take more time to weigh the pros and cons, the amount of work will increase and increase from a factor 4 to 8 and not to mention quality, in a 20% reduction in operating costs. There's a contradiction! I put myself in the place of all those people who have to make important decisions, to judge whether a person can be released or not, whether his or her journey is good, whether the person plays comedy in front of the speaker or whether he or she really wants to participate. Minister, on the issue of making this path mandatory, the first psychiatrist here will tell you that if he has someone who does not want to do anything before him, he can do nothing. So we need ways to convince someone to take this path. That seems clear to me. I am surprised that you do not point your finger at this tragic fact, and that you do not specify: "As part of my means, I believe that my services could not do better, but allow me to open the debate on these means". Then I would have understood. There, I could have followed you – and the other parties should have positioned themselves. If that is the case, say it more clearly: "It is for the parties of the majority to take a clear position in favour of more means, recognizing that the decision to reduce operating costs by 20% was a major mistake". In this sense, Minister, ask your services to bring to the political debate elements supporting this thesis. Answer us: how many cases did this social worker have to deal with? I am sure that if you were to inform Parliament today, that would be a political fact as such. It is obvious that this lady or this gentleman had to handle a kyrielle of cases while at the same time having to judge quickly whether Benjamin Herman should be granted prison leave or not. I now turn to the individual follow-up provided for in the 2005 Act. It is not just a bureaucratic text that would have been voted on; it is part of a reintegration plan – which is not just about radicalisation. It testifies to the failure of our prison policy. Compare, for example, the Norwegian model – which leads to more or less 20% recidivism – and the "amerloque" model – where 80% recidivism occurs. As usual, Western Europe stands in between: 48.2%. Therefore, the stakes of the political debate are whether we are going to switch to the American system – and I think that some parties on the Belgian right-wing would like to do so, with matamoretic accents, and would like to see more repression. But then, 80 per cent of the cases would be recidivism. That is the debate, Minister! And I feel good – and that's so much better – that you hesitate to switch to the American model. In this case, let's tilt on the other side. The Norwegian rate of 20% invites us to take another approach. Of course, the individual follow-up to reintegration is a cardinal point of this prison scheme, which requires resources. Contrary to what one might think, repression is less expensive, because it is not very difficult to apply. On the other hand, wondering what's going on in someone's head and trying to see how to give him hope and want to reintegrate requires a lot of means. I will not be much longer because we are at the heart of the debate. I would just like to get some very concrete answers to the question of radicalisation in the last few weeks. We really need to know whether the decision that was made was consistent or not. Can you also confirm that the means were indeed problematic and that a mission may be launched on the basis of this concrete case. In this context, I would like the floor to be given to all the actors who have dealt with Benjamin Herman. Could they have done better with a little more resources? This is an important issue that we, as parliamentarians, must be able to resolve in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course you have asked more questions than I have any answers. But I'll try to satisfy you as much as I can. I have already signed the requests for opinions for the royal decree which recognises the events in Liège as an act of terrorism, so that opinions can be delivered as quickly as possible and that we can compensate the victims by making the necessary advances from the Fund to assist victims of intentional acts of violence of the SPF Justice. Of course, such recognition does not necessarily mean, at the criminal level, that the facts will be described as terrorist acts. We have seen previous cases where there was recognition by royal decree, while the criminal judge had a different opinion. I'm just saying it to be complete. In any event, however, the act will be recognised and compensation will be made. It's more than obvious. You have asked a lot of questions about the means and the course of things, regardless of the proposals I have made, supported or at least considered acceptable for discussion. Again recently, I have told some colleagues that all these debates should take place within an inter-federal framework. It is very good to talk about a lot of things here, but this debate will probably be repeated, in one way or another, in the parliaments of the federated entities. The task of reintegration is a common task and also a task of convergence of means. At the level of federated entities, as at our level, there will never be enough resources, but if we pool them, we can do better. I have very good relations with the colleagues of the three Communities, but they too are facing a formidable challenge at the budgetary level, as they have received only 85% of the resources in relation to the competences assigned to them. So it's a difficult exercise in a period like the one we know right now. Nevertheless, I am convinced that this type of serious accident, like the one we experienced last week, is likely to bring things forward. Without blaming anyone, I give you a small example of our problem. To hire an international expert in the fight against radicalization, it took me almost a year to convince the Inspector of Finance that it was a skill that I could finance from the federal level. It's a reality I felt confronted with, which doesn't mean I didn't recruit that person. I did. This expert trained my staff, but it wasn't obvious. Each time, when we talk about drugs, sexual crime, etc., we all find ourselves facing the same problem: who will pay the bill? God knows if I'd like to pay her... and ask for the means! But I have to get the clearance to do it. I wanted to alert you to this second aspect. At the interdepartmental conference of the Houses of Justice, we have the best relations, but this exercise is just beginning. You might say it takes too long. That's true, but do you know where we were, at the beginning of 2015, when I was coming, carrying my plan for deradicalization in prisons? The echoes I heard at that time were not always flattering; indeed, we found this track a little farfetched. I have found that, in the countries around us, everyone is trying to find their way. Nowhere have we found the ideal formula for dealing with this problem. Our problem is that, because of the international expertise we have consulted, we have chosen a dual path. First, we try to solve the problem by dispersing the prison. Especially in Marche-en-Famenne, there are eleven radicalized people, the unincluded killer, who are in four wings of the prison. Marche-en-Famenne is not a satellite prison, but one of the most secure prisons in the country. The satellite prisons in Wallonia are Jamioulx, Lantin and Andenne. I'm sorry, not Jamioulx, but Lantin and Andenne. So we decided to isolate some people. We do so in our prisons with the advice of the extremism cell and local opinions. We do not do it generously, but slowly, because we know that from someone is isolated, it is almost permanently isolated to full pain. What happens next is not obvious. During my visits to the deradicalization wing in Hasselt, I found that the people with whom I was able to talk wanted to return to a normal diet. But, of course, once they have been isolated, everyone thinks that they "fake" their deradicalization. It's not an obvious lead. It is for this reason that it is used sparingly. I am not going to discuss the proximity of some radicalised people to Marche-en-Famenne in relation to Mr Herman. I believe that this is part of the internal and secret or confidential life of our prisons and therefore I cannot answer what is happening. This can go very far and these men are still alive. Our debate is public and I do not see how to respond to it, except in camera and under special circumstances if necessary. Obviously, as soon as we have radicalized people who are not put in isolation, it is inevitable that there is a proximity between some of them and some other prisoners. It is inevitable and it is the choice that has been made. Was that the right choice? I don't know. We can talk about it another time if you want, but in other countries we have the same problems about it. Why was it not an intelligence or intelligence service in prisons? We could have done it. France, I think, did. We chose not to do so because we found that with our Security Service, we were able to manage the problem of radicalization in prisons in terms of information. What does State Security do? In principle, on the basis of the information it receives, when confirmed, it makes information available to the services concerned. It's his duty. It shall collect information and, where appropriate, information which shall be communicated to the competent authorities. This information is by nature more relevant than the information because it has confirmed it. In this case, what happened? Once again, I will not provide you with partially classified and, in any case, confidential notes. The information in question is a first-degree information that there is a prison that communicates that someone, because it has converted – I believe the killer has converted to Arlon and was participating in group prayers – could be in the process of radicalization, if necessary, because he resides in a certain prison where other radicalized people are present and because he met them in the preau. It is quite occasionally that the State Security makes mention of it when the killer is in March 2017, I believe. The first note from the Sûreté that did not have as its object our killer dates from May 2017. The second note with respect to a person who resides in Marche-en-Famenne dates from August 2017. And once again, because of the fact that Benjamin Herman converted to Arlon, he is occasionally mentioned in one line in the note in question, with the same reference to the fact that he was converted earlier to Arlon. So that's what I call first-degree information. So there's also the other note we're talking about. The RIR of March 2017, which emanates from the police. And from which, during a LTF (local taskforce) in the province of Luxembourg, no one is alerted by the mention of that name. All these notes, the RIRs, on the one hand, and the notes of the Sûreté de l'Etat on the other, on the other hand, arrive in the hands of the OCAM. Far from me suggesting... Pardon?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u25	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u26	Which prison director? Wait, I'll talk about it. I don't want to hide anything, as long as I can say what I'm saying. I did not say, far from that, that the OCAM wanted to reduce at all costs. There was also a lively discussion between Mr Jambon and Mr Bonte on this occasion in Parliament. Mrs Lambrecht, I do not know if you were there, but if you heard the discussion, it was precisely because all the names of the past were listed without ever wondering whether those names were still relevant, whether the person had been killed in Syria, whether he did not fail to keep him away, etc. That was the question. The only thing I want to say is that our relations with OCAM are excellent. I am not the only one who has jurisdiction over this service. They're doing a great job. If the MACO does not find this information relevant to the person in question in their database, it is a sign. The Extremism cell in my central administration does the same thing. It does not take the name of Mr Herman on the basis of these Safety Notes, which did not concern Mr Herman at all in the first place. She's asking the Sûreté. I have been asked a lot of questions. I don't know if you've heard it before, but I'll say it again: the cell is asking the question. And the Sûreté says that the clues are not relevant enough, but that it will follow up in any case. The notes don't come out at the time we found something. It is precisely because we notice that these people have seen each other again. The note concerns in the first place other persons, about whom there is a question of safety. CelEx and OCAM keep the notes. What are they doing with these notes? They shall serve as a basis, where appropriate, for the collection of additional information for the information. But nothing comes of it either in the last months of 2017, or in the first months of 2018, as far as I know right now. There is always a need to keep a certain reserve because the exchange of information remains a complicated exercise. But when a director of a prison such as Lantin or Marche asks a question about prison leave or leave, he has the information that the Sûreté itself uses to mention in a note "yes, this Mr Herman is known to us". I was resented for having dared to say that any security service as soon as an incident occurs, confirms "yes, it is known. We saw his name somewhere." I gave examples of the terrible attacks in Germany, the United States and England. Each time, the intelligence services confirmed that they were aware of them but had not taken them back. From the moment the decision not to take a person back is made, what happens in my system, that of prisons? The detention service has the list. These people, in general, do not have security clearance. In addition, the people who sit in the courts of enforcement of sentences, too; you are not unaware of that. When you see the name on the list, you ask for the opinion. If you don't, you don't ask. That's what happened. If you want officials to ask 8,500 times a year for CelEx to know if he knows anything about such a person, while 40% of the prison population could be Muslim – given the food consumed – this will be a complicated exercise. I am quite open to your proposal to recruit staff. For my part, I am thinking mainly of nurses and psychologists. However, for the administration, this will not be easy. It's no big deal; we can do it. However, in our prisons, we are talking about about about 250 radicalised people. I asked all the services the question, and it was answered that this gentleman did not enter into the account to be called "number four" in my data bank. Is the method perfect? Could we have decided on another way of doing things? Mr Hedebouw, but not just you, don't make me say that no mistake has been made. It was not discovered until after the events. We still don't know the killer's motives. It won't be easy to find out. For my part, I dare not speculate about this. I only watched the RTL program, in which the inhabitants of Rochefort were interviewed. Those of you who have seen her will have seen what they have seen. I finish it; I don't speculate. As far as I know, no note other than the one written on Friday evening by my services in Marche-en-Famenne contains the name of Mr Herman. However, I would certainly not be surprised to learn that there are others. In any case, we asked the question very directly. For now, we don't know any more. In this case, it is purely an observation note drawn up by a district chief. I can show it to you. It's no longer than that. She describes the walks, during the week, of some prisoners, without saying anything very special about Benjamin Herman. When the Warden receives this note on Saturday morning, he has every means to have the prison leave revoked. We created these means in Pot-Pourri II. That is why the percentage of failures has increased so much. The leave can be withdrawn before it comes into effect. But no one later informed me that he had made a mistake. As soon as I learned, reading Sudpresse, that this note existed, I asked all the experts to give me their opinion on this note. What's going on with that note? It shall be transmitted directly to Brussels. She's now with CelEx. It is communicated to the State Security and the OCAM. It is not a question of saying that the information is not exchanged, but any information is not necessarily considered relevant. The human being may be wrong, but he does not necessarily make a mistake. Indeed, this gentleman had many other mental, psychic defects than that of participating in group prayers. For the rest, I didn't hear anyone talking about clues that could make it clear that... he was certainly a follower. It's normal, considering his profile. Having said that, I am not sure that I will be able to answer all your other questions. Don't make me say I don't want any extra resources. Of course, you have to. But we need a very focused approach that can only be inter-federal. I need more psychologists, more nurses, but reintegration as such, in general, is no longer my task. I trained 444 members of my staff in deradicalization. This is also the reason why they are punctual in the provision of information. We're trying to get radicalized only in prisons where people are trained. Having eleven in a prison where there are radicalized, it's not much. In general, there are more. In Lantin and Andenne, there are about 20 of them. I listened to everyone who said I promised a detention plan. You cannot deny that I have tried everything to advance in the basic law as well as, for example, with the Central Council and the prison monitoring commissions. The budget is there and there is finally an agreement. It took me two and a half years! And, to be clear, this was done with Parliament. There will be a budget of about €1.8 million to make this independent Council possible. From the start, I said we were going to do it because it's not me but you who have to watch the prisons. Is it simple? No! The resolution is very good. We still have to vote the law at second reading, but we're finally ready. It was a heavy exercise, but we did it. I believe that in terms of communication and information exchange, we have not worked so badly. I believe that the author of the facts was not very good, it was simply – as Mr Brotcorn would say – a small criminal under common law, with very unhappy youth and weak intelligence. I do not want to go into people, but if there is no isolation, there is always a good reason for this in the cases I have asked for. I have specifically examined why certain people are not isolated. I will not go into those reasons, but there has always been a good deal of thought. It has to do with security and with the presence of third parties in the De-Radex. Some of them are housed in the De-Radex and they simply cannot be kept there. They then go back to another prison, a satellite prison, for example, to go there in isolation. As for Mr. Calomne's question, which relates to the diagnosis of mental health, and which asked if we can't do better, I will answer that, yes, I will do better with this psychiatric observation centre. So, with regard to Mr Calomne's question about the number of officials trained: I said 444 and we are evaluating our 2015 action plan with the Deradex. Once again, I can be blamed for a lot of things, but when I happened, nothing existed. There was nothing in prisons about radicalization, nothing at all. Now there's the Deradex, there's the CelEx. I started right away in 2015 and it's clear that it's not perfect, which is why we're going to evaluate, but that doesn't mean we're not following up. To the questions of Mrs Onkelinx and Mrs De Wit, I have answered but they can give me a signal if they do not have sufficient answers. After the failed limited detention, Herman's SURB has no longer received a new application. He had to submit certificates of guidance. When he took penitentiary leave, he was taken to prison, taken to the train in Marche and went immediately to his psychologist in Namur. He even did that last Monday when he was on penitentiary leave. I spoke to you about the guard's report. I don't want to play with quotes to win. The opposite is true. Mrs Van Cauter, you are talking about Mr Robert. I know that we should not take risks on penitentiary leave when there is a chance of a recurrence. In an article written very recently by Mr Robert, he emphasized that the repetition during the penitentiary leave was very small. It is an article that he wrote in his capacity with the NICC in a reportbook published by Maklu. In the penultimate paragraph I read that the number of type 1 errors is very limited. The repeated type 2 errors are errors such as late arrival. I heard you right, too. It must be errors that are recorded and not all errors recorded. When it comes to decisions on UV and PV, another person states in the book that too often a zero risk is sought within the EPI. I'm just saying the same guy writes that. I'm not saying I approve, but just that he writes that. He states, when the number of penitentiary leave is put in the denominator, that it amounts to two per thousand. Not the number of prisoners receiving penitentiary leave, but the number of penitentiary engagements is in the denominator. I think I have answered most of Mrs Lambrecht's questions. I am pleased that many of you agree with the standardized conditions. I understand, Mr. Brotcorne, that for you, the question is to put this in the context of the detention plan. The royal decree is under way. Mr Bonte, as regards the database of the OCAD, last week I signed the circular together with Mr Jambon. I would like to tell you what an incredibly difficult road it is to establish a database. Many of you are very fond of privacy. The creation of a database, which the Privacy Commission agrees with, is a very difficult task. We have five qualifications in the database of the OCAD. We have now added two, the home grown terrorists and the hate preachers, and so we are at seven. We shall add two more. Anyone who's been radicalized in prison and leaving the prison will end up in the database. Anyone who has been convicted of terror and leaves prison, even though he no longer seems radical, will end up in the database. So we go to nine categories, but each time we have to go through a whole process, which includes privacy. At other times, many of you are on the side of privacy, which I understand, but it is not an easy exercise. If we were allowed to keep everything we wanted, life would be easier. Mrs Lambrecht, I answered your question about the 200 cells in committee last week. Those empty cells will be filled in after the summer in Bruges and Leuven. Names are being renovated and in Beveren we are repairing the floor, so we now have a capacity of 12 less than we need. In this way, I have also largely included Mr Van Hecke's questions in the exercise on the notes, including the RIR note, and their content. Mr. Vanden Burre, you asked what monitoring we are applying to radicalized prisoners. We developed this in the March 2015 Action Plan. As last Friday's neighbourhood chief's note shows, we are carrying out this monitoring in prisons where radicalized prisoners are staying. The new royal decrees are coming. As far as possible, we will recruit additional staff in the medico-psycho-social setting. Unfortunately, we have had to implement priorities. It's never gay. We therefore gave priority to prison officers, which was justified in view of the strikes we experienced in 2016. If you need more figures, about 300 people have been convicted in our country for terrorism. This shows that justice works. The OCAM database is highly effective in the qualification of different people. With regard to the follow-up of the radicalised in our prisons, we have all the figures available in the National Security Council for 2017 and 2018. I don't like to talk about it too publicly, but the follow-up by LTF and LIVC is more than decent, according to the information I have at my disposal. We will have to decide together whether this is enough and whether we need to take more far-reaching measures than those currently in existence. I hope that the framework will be extended, not only to myself but also to the community services. Mr Bonte was very surprised earlier that the deradicalisation officials of Flanders followed on, after someone had been released. Well, that is indeed the case. If someone is finally released who was accompanied by Flanders, then they follow him further. As I said, we recently received a very good international report on deradicalisation in our country, which I would also like to make available to the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u27	The minister began his speech by saying that, especially for the victims, the government had wanted to sign a royal order, considering that they had been victims of an act of terrorism. That's what you're saying. There is probably one reason: it helps to protect victims better, but it means that for the government it is an act of terrorism. We'll see if the judge confirms or not, it's true, but for you it's an act of terrorism, otherwise you wouldn't have taken this royal decree. So all the work and the whole question of radicalism in prison remains. We can't just consider that he was a fragile man, unintelligent as you always say, under the influence of psychotropics etc.... No, it's a radicalized man who committed an act of terrorism, you recognized it in your royal decree. [[...]] [[Without microphone]] No, but you talked about that order and the fact that there was an agreement in the government, if I'm not mistaken?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u28	No, Mrs Onkelinx, I said that I asked for the advice of the competent services on the subject, but that the definition of terrorism or attacks in the legislation that makes possible such a royal decree is quite different from the criminal definition. I think we should not mix the genres here: you understand very well why we do this and I only wanted to announce it, with a lot of sympathy for the victims. In concluding that it is necessarily a terrorist that we have missed – that is not what I meant, my apologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u29	It is still strange: you are working on a royal decree, since it is not yet signed, there is a definition of terrorism, even if it is not criminal, even if it may not be confirmed at the criminal level by a judge. Indeed it protects the victims, but I still assume that, in collaboration with the services, it is because you believe that there was initially a radicalization of the inmate, otherwise it doesn't make sense. Secondly, on recruiters: you say that they are still alive and that you cannot say anything. It's very annoying, because the questions around recruiters are really essential. We're talking about two people. We want to know a lot about these two people! Did they appear to be quoted on some State Security reports, yes or no? Were they known by the organs of the prison or the prison administration? Had a kind of safety net been put around them so that they would not radicalize other inmates, as was done in the end? This question is essential. And it also refers to your general policy, which you have addressed a little bit; what are finally the very precise guidelines to see whether we put in Deradex or not, whether we put in specific wing or not. And when you don't put in Deradex, or a specific wing, how do you work around these inmates and have flashes as soon as they have conciliabules with people you name as being particularly fragile? I have absolutely no answer to the questions about recruiters. However, I find this to be an essential issue. You know that I have asked that the P and R committees be able to provide us with a time line to look closely at all these reports. The request seems to have been accepted in the Conference of Presidents. So I'll have the chance to come back. We may even have a discussion with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior on the accompanying committee P and R. We have here the exact example of the recruiter and a failing system. We must be able to draw conclusions in order to better protect our society from the non-monitoring of radicals. Then you talk about the killer. You say you have a proposal for an intelligence service inside prisons as there are elsewhere. You seem not to be following it - I'm not sure I understood it correctly - because, possibly, the current system is working. I find that the current system is not a working system. That is why, alongside many other specialists, especially those who have been heard in the Attentats Committee, I think that we must dare to change our system. As these experts say, in order for the Sûreté to make reports that are not simply a collection of information from prison members, they must be able to take the temperature of proximity, which they have clearly not been able to do. This is all the more important because in terms of people who convert, not to religion but to radicalism, it is known that in strategies, concealment is a particularly important factor. There's been reports from the Sûreté. There were RIRs and I think there wasn't one. Here too, perhaps in Committees P and R, we will have additional information in relation to what you have told us. All of this, you said, happens to the OCAM and the OCAM does not put it on some of its lists. Yes, very well, but this information exists: information inside the prison, information from the police, information from the Sûreté. This information exists within the framework of the radicalism plan as well as in the plan of the recommendations of the Attentats Commission. What we were asking is that there should be a platform for consultation of all these actors to see what we are doing with this information. Normally, with this platform of consultation, with several RIRs and several reports from the Sûreté, there should still have been indicators that would have made it possible to question each other. What do we do with that person? How are we protecting her from recruiters? How is follow-up carried out? How else does one work for his release by prison leave? This has not been done! It seems to me that there has not been this consultation platform where all this information has been exchanged, and I do not believe that there has been a duly trained terrorist reference, which is very important in this regard, because on the basis of the information, even if it is incidental as is the case with information from the State Security, the terrorist reference is supposed to contextualize all the information in order to be able to give a studied opinion at the time when there are requests, including a prison leave. That's what's missing in this case. So we don't know about the recruiters and the decisions you made about their reporting. I am waiting for Committees P and R. There has obviously been a lack of agreement. Comparison is not right. I know that, but we've been looking at everything about the attacks in Paris and Brussels for months. The number one problem that has been highlighted is the lack of information sharing. That's the number one element. I'm not talking about this. I'm talking about the attacks. We missed a lot of information and exploitation of information simply because we didn't talk, because we didn't exchange, because we didn't evaluate it together. However, in this case, without saying that the same thing has repeated itself, it seems to me that this work has not been entirely necessary. You say that in your detention plan, that will be the case. But in a detention plan, all these elements provided by the internal and external services are taken into account in order to define a framework for the inmate. That has not been done. I agree with a whole series of your comments and I do not agree with those who say "it is enough" or "it is only necessary to make prison leave as a general rule even more difficult". I said last Thursday that if there were no prison leave, if there were no work around the inmates to prepare for their reintegration, it would be the disaster upon their release. The term has been used by several colleagues: they would become "human bombs". I'm not in the "there's only one" at all! But if we want to do a useful job with these people, whether radicalized or under influence, we must first have the information for those who work with them. In this case, however, there was no such useful information. That's why I'm telling you I'm still hungry. I did not receive answers to my very specific questions. This meeting was important because the minister provided us with a series of information that will allow us to work in the coming weeks on sentencing, enforcement and all matters related to internment. But on the specific case of Liège, I did not receive an answer to my questions. We will continue to work in Committee P and Committee R, and I hope that we will have, on the basis of the reports, this dialogue which I have long hoped for, both with the Minister of Justice and with the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u30	Mr. Secretary, you just blew up the Chief of Staff's note. Isn't it possible to read it for us, since it's so short? Then, together, we can see that this note should not have given rise to the withdrawal of the sentence. Then we can close that point. Perhaps you do not think it is appropriate to read that note in an open meeting. Then perhaps this can be done in a closed meeting with only the Members of Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u31	No, ma'am, there are all kinds of names in there that I can't read. I can only say what I said about it. This could possibly be the subject of the Committee I's examination.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u32	I hope that will indeed happen. As a Member of Parliament, we have the right to see that note in one way or another.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u33	Mr President, it is obvious that if, just before the holidays, you want to follow up on the case – as we had organised one about the killings of the Walloon Brabant – I am quite prepared to come before you in case new information comes to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-04-54-commissie-ic910x.u34	That's perfect, Minister. That concludes our work.
