ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u1	Pursuant to Rule 127, 10e of the Rules of Procedure of the Court, the combined questions No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u2	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that cybersecurity specialists do not have to worry about their jobs. Computer piracy, including viruses, ransoms, espionage, and computer networks, is unfortunately expanding and affects both the private sector (e.g., the State Security Service) and public services. The hackers are exploiting the flaws of our systems. We often have a small war of delay, that is, we protect our computer systems once the fault has been exploited. However, at the federal level in particular, the risks are still very important, for example in your department. They may involve vital infrastructure, intrusions into sensitive data banks, for example the federal police, but not only. That's what I wanted to talk to you about today. I know that in 2016, as I recall in the question sent to you, there was information that you and Alexander De Croo had released €110 million for the iPolice project. The aim was to renew the infrastructure to avoid this kind of hacking. In addition, you also have a range of new obligations related to the General Data Protection Regulation. Deputy Prime Minister, I have two specific questions. First, in 2017 and 2018, have there been any hacking or cyber-attack attempts on the federal police's computer systems and messaging system? If so, what measures have been taken to protect them? If so, I assume that investigations have been conducted into the origin of these possible cyberattacks. If so, are the results of these surveys available? My second question is more general. What security measures are being taken within the federal police to prevent and protect against possible computer attacks and intrusions into CTI and courier systems?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Onkelinx, thank you for your question. I would like to stress, in the preamble, that the most important step in the area of security is to say as little as possible about specific protection measures. The hackers you're talking about could, in fact, use this information for bad purposes. For security reasons, I will therefore try to answer the questions as best as possible without going into the details too much. With regard to cyberattacks, a distinction should be made between individual attacks that attempt to penetrate the system by knowing the passwords of police personnel and structural attacks that are aimed at undermining the system. We know that attempts at individual attacks have occurred. Employees who notice anomalies must notify the Technical Service which then resets the passwords. In particular, members of the police are sensitized not to communicate their passwords or to not always use the same password on different systems. In addition, the police are prepared to provide themselves with protections that have already proved their worth in other institutions. It is for the user to introduce, in addition to his password, a complementary code received via a smartphone, for example. Even if a hacker manages to retrieve the password, it will not have the additional code. The use of this technology has been possible since this year. Its implementation is the result of budgets that the government has released. The aim is to implement this working method for all integrated police systems and applications over the next year. More structural attempts have also been made, for example, to paralyze systems. Such attacks may be carried out by hackers from certain countries. It is difficult to determine its origin immediately. The procedures are in place to temporarily stop the systems or to make them available via another channel. Most importantly, in such cases, systems are capable of detecting the attack and reacting rapidly in an automated manner. Here too, market-compliant solutions have been installed. The attacks identified were the subject of a complaint to the judicial authorities. The results of investigations conducted by these authorities are covered by the confidentiality of the proceedings. With regard to your second question, as you mentioned very well, the government has released funds, on the one hand, to transform police systems into a more secure IT architecture and, on the other hand, to modernize them functionally through the iPolice project. All these measures, both technical and organizational, deal with aspects of prevention, protection, detection and response to an incident or attack. The secure architecture that will also be used in the context of iPolice will be finalized later this year. This protection can be extended to devices used by police officers as well as smartphones. In this context, a series of automatic safety monitoring systems have also been installed. However, as previously stated, this will take some time before all police forces have adopted these working methods and new possibilities, which are offered to them in a centralized manner. In addition, it is important to note that the Integrated Police is currently using a messaging system that the Prime Minister's Chancellery offers to various public services. The Commission is also constantly engaged in increasing technical and organizational measures to prevent, protect, detect and respond to potential attacks. In addition, the Federal Police complements these measures with internal provisions as part of the implementation of an integrated approach to different IT systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u4	Deputy Prime Minister, there have been intrusions and complaints. This is currently under investigation and the file is not yet closed. However, you have already worked through an internal audit to improve the system and you have presented us with all the improvements. Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u5	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, we are used to discussing this issue. On 16 August, you again communicated to the Belgian economic press the second results of the implementation of the PNR law. You once again wanted to demonstrate the safety of this method of indiscriminate collection of personal data, four months after your last press conference on this subject. You said that "834 people reported in the police data banks were able to be identified", on the basis of a check of "4.7 million passengers" in total. But of your own admission, only "33% of passengers are checked". Mr Deputy Prime Minister, how many of the 834 identified people have turned out to be what you presented to me on 16 May last in the Committee on the Interior as "false positives"? Could you tell me with which precise databases the PNR data were correlated to obtain these profiles of 834 people? Could you specify in percentage the proportion for each data bank? Knowing that you had already communicated on 16 April this year, can you now be more precise and detail the number of such reports that affect serious crime and terrorism, the scope of Article 8 of the Act of 25 December 2016? You're talking in the press about "eight drug barons arrested" and "18 child abductions avoided." Are all these criminals now subject to legal proceedings? How many people were arrested on the basis of facts related to terrorist activity? In the press articles in question, it is stated that "the data of persons who book a last-minute trip are checked after the plane is taken off". While all passengers will eventually be controlled indiscriminately, last-minute tickets are still, as with the failed attack in the Thalys, a security breach in which candidates for the unthinkable and irreparable could paradoxically engulf. Could you tell me how many PNR reports are currently being recorded for those who purchased last-minute airfares? A pilot project to collect PNR data from passengers on high-speed trains was again announced during your meeting with the press. Does this project concern a country other than Great Britain, located outside the Schengen area and soon outside the EU? Could you tell me where you are now in your consultations with your other European colleagues and the relevant commercial companies for the implementation of the PNR system for high-speed trains, boats and buses?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u6	Mr Hellings, first of all, let me stress that the law of 25 December 2016 on the processing of passenger data is the transposition of the European Directive of 27 April 2016, which requires each Member State to collect PNR data for the purposes listed. The European Union has chosen a decentralised PNR system, which means that each Member State must establish its own passenger information unit and establish its own connections with airlines. The 33 per cent number of controlled passengers you mention is due to the number of airlines. There is no difference between passengers. This depends on the airlines operating from, to or via Belgium, with which we have already been able to establish a secure and functional connection. The implementation of the PNR law, as is the case in other states, has in fact been done gradually, company by company. Each company passes through a process of testing carefully calibrated by the legal teams, assisted by the passenger information unit to ensure the secure connection. As you mentioned, it is a matter of processing personal data, and therefore of doing so with caution. Several airlines are currently in the testing phase. This figure of 33 per cent is therefore expected to increase gradually. We will most likely reach 75% by the end of the year. The target is to reach 100% by the end of 2019. The rapid achievement of such high percentages makes Belgium one of the best pupils in the European Union. This can also happen sometimes, even if it is rare. The 834 hits you refer to were automatically generated by the database between April 1 and August 15, 2018. According to Article 24 of the Law of 25 December 2016 transposing Article 6, § 5 and § 6 of the PNR Directive, such automatic hits must be validated by the Passenger Information Unit within 24 hours of receipt of their automated notification. In the example before us, about 40% have been validated by the police as useful information for carrying out their legal tasks, i.e. to complete ongoing investigations, to have physical checks carried out or to follow up in the context of the purposes of the PNR law. Fifty-eight of these 834 hits led to physical control and 14 to arrest. Let me turn to your second question. The 834 automated hits were generated after a correlation with a extraction of the police's general national data bank, the BNG, covering persons related to one of the offences included in the PNR Act, as explained in its explanatory memorandum. This is not about profiling, it is about confrontation with a database extraction. This is therefore a figure which refers to a single database of only one competent service, namely the Federal Police. Thirdly, to clarify the figures you were able to read in the press, not eight but nine people were arrested for drug trafficking. These cases are, of course, dealt with by the courts. Eighteen hits were related to parental abduction, but not all of these reports resulted in an arrest. This was not the case when it was found that the suspect, the object of the hit, was travelling alone and not with the child in question. Twelve hits were also recorded for terrorist acts and each of them was monitored. It is important to point out that one of these controls could not have taken place without the existence of the passenger information unit and the collection of expertise and data that it allows. One of the cases concerned a person who was in transit through Belgium, who had not had to pass through border control. The numbers that were shared during the communication to which you refer come only from police statistics. To answer your question more fully, the statistics of all relevant services in the Passenger Information Unit (PIU) will be required. These figures will be the subject of an annual report on my part to the House of Representatives, as soon as a year has passed since the operational start of the IPU, as foreseen by law. Fourthly, I come to the PNR data sent at two times defined by the Royal Decree implementing the law for the air sector: 88 hours before the aircraft took off and at the time of the end of boarding. The data of people who buy tickets in the last minute are therefore also sent to the Passenger Information Unit. Fifthly, we are currently preparing the implementation of the PNR law in two other modes of transport, namely international high-speed rail transport and international scheduled bus transport. Two royal decrees, one for each of these modes, were approved by the Council of Ministers at first reading. They shall be submitted for opinion to the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority. Cooperation with Eurostar is trilateral, with the United Kingdom also involved. This project was born during the discussions of the international task force on the implementation of a PNR project in the TGV sector which we are chairing and which brings together, in addition to the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and France. The task force has already met six times since the beginning of 2017. At each of these meetings, a consultation was held with the rail sector to ensure its involvement. We are currently working on the implementation at national level of the common approach defined by the Task Force. The above-mentioned royal decrees were drawn up on the basis of that decree. Belgium is therefore aligned with its neighbouring countries. The French Prime Minister stated at his joint meeting with our Prime Minister in Val-Duchess on 11 June that his country wanted to embark on the establishment of a railway NRP. There will also be a meeting with my German counterpart in the coming days, as the latter has shown interest in this task force.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u7	Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I asked you how many people were arrested on the basis of facts related to terrorist activities. As I understand it, you talked about 12 hits on terrorism-related issues. It is quite normal that the police should be able to keep an eye on persons suspected of terrorist acts. But my question was about the number of people arrested on the basis of terrorist acts. As far as I understand, no one has been arrested or arrested for acts of terrorism. On the other hand, one person was found for acts of terrorism, but was not arrested. The objective was that: the aim of the law was to combat serious crime, particularly terrorist acts. This raises the question of proportionality, which is being discussed in the Constitutional Court. I will be one of the most attentive readers of your report, which you will table in April 2019. We will have an opportunity to discuss further the current statistics. I hear that Germany would join the task force, when we know that it has always refused, for the past year and a half, to be part of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u8	Mr. Hellings, I didn't say she was joining the task force. I said that I was going to have an interview with my counterpart on this point, at his request, because he showed an interest in joining her.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u9	One realizes that this is a sensitive subject and that Germany does not want to use this data collection system, since in this area its history - whether in the East or in the West - is particularly painful. Finally, with regard to France, I wish you good luck in your discussions with Mr Collomb's successor. Like you, I hope he'll follow the same line. Perhaps we will witness an inflection in the management of personal data. In any case, we will keep this file in mind. See you in April.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u10	Mr Hellings, as far as France is concerned, I spoke not of the Minister of the Interior, but of the President of the Republic, who, for his part, the rest!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u11	Minister, at the end of August, approximately 8 000 recorded cases of violence against our police officers were reported in the press during the years 2014 and 2015. Only 1 200 of these 8 000 cases would be prosecuted. In just 300 cases a sentence was also pronounced. After the riots in Brussels in November last year, there was a lick-on-piece policy for violence against the police. In addition to an action plan, a letter was sent about zero tolerance for violence against the police. Driest violence by Dutchmen in Spa unfortunately cost one of our agents their lives at the end of August. Chairman Carlo Medo of the NSPV said in a response that violence against the police has systematically increased in recent years, not only verbally but also physically. From your cabinet it was agreed that there has been quite a bit of aggression against police officers lately. Mr Minister, can you, first of all, report the figures of crimes of violence against the police since 2016, possibly broken down by form? Can we effectively establish an upward trend? Secondly, can you also demonstrate that the violence against the police is becoming more and more severe? Thirdly, are you thinking of additional measures to better protect the agents? If so, which one? Fourthly, what progress has been made with the action plan announced in Brussels following last year's riots?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u12	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, first of all, the only reliable figures available to the police refer precisely to facts relating to the subject of physical or verbal violence against police officers, because the victim information is contained in the fact-qualification, namely the deliberate administration of blows and injuries to a police officer or officer of justice during or on the occasion of the performance of his duties. The numbers are from the police database, ANG. It records facts on the basis of the minutes resulting from the orders of judicial and administrative police. I'll give you the table with the figures per year. The table thus contains the number of police-registered facts concerning deliberate beatings and injuries to a police officer. In 2013, 868 cases occurred, in 2014 923, in 2015 807, in 2016 789 and in 2017 849. There is therefore an increase in 2017 compared to 2016, but the number of offences is fairly stable throughout the period of those 5 years. It should be noted, however, that this is only about the recorded facts of deliberate beatings and injuries to a police officer, i.e. only facts for which a report has been drawn up. Another important remark is that the figures are only a narrow reflection of the violence against the police. It concerns only the facts of success for police officers. The problem of violence against the police is, of course, much wider. We are thinking of insults and threats, which are not recorded as such in the ANG. We can compare the figures, as it is always about success. As for your second question, I can't give you figures for the local police. They do not focus on the autonomy of police areas in terms of prevention and protection at work. For the federal police, I can give you figures and findings for the years 2013 to 2017. The Department for Prevention and Protection at the Work of the Federal Police is tasked with collecting and analysing all data relating to accidents in relation to the Federal Police. In this way, trends can be identified and lessons learned for prevention policy. The Commission on Prevention is based solely on the facts of violence involving injuries against staff of the federal police. I will provide you with a number of figures which may be elements of your question as to whether or not the incidents are becoming more violent. You will see with me that the degree of aggression in five years' time is now increasing and falling again. So I cannot give you a clear conclusion. 2016 was a special year with the attacks. That is also apparent from the figures. We should also note that in 2018 three local police deaths occurred during the performance of their duties, namely two in Liège and one in Spa. That is unacceptable. In any case, on the basis of the figures I have before me today, I cannot decide whether this indicates an increasing trend in violent incidents. The figures I want to give you are the number of days of incompetence and the nature of injuries. I shall begin with the number of accidents reported as a result of aggression or resistance by third parties towards the staff of the federal police. That can also be voluntary or involuntary hits by colleagues. The number of injuries notified in 2013 was 110, in 2014 167, in 2015 140, in 2016 252 and in 2017 162. So there must also be abstraction of 2016, which was a special year. Consequently, we cannot really talk about a trend. Then I have a table of days of incompetence due to facts of aggression or rebellion. [[In 2013, there were 2 936, in 2014 3 864, in 2015 3 016, in 2016 9 049 and in 2017 6 033.]] For the year 2016, a clear increase in the number of injuries notified and the number of days of incompetence due to facts compared to the year 2015 can be observed. This has a lot to do with the attacks of 22 March 2016. A further decrease can be observed in 2017, but the number remains high. However, this is about the number of days of inability to work and many people have been incompetent for a very long time as a result of the attacks in 2016. Part of that increase can therefore be explained. For the year 2017, the facts of aggression and rebellion include 5 facts that happened on the way to or from work and 3 facts that happened outside the service. 47 accidents involving superficial injuries did not give rise to work incompetence in 2017. In the 162 accidents notified in 2017 due to violence against staff, 4 accidents resulted in more than 300 days of work interruption, 4 accidents to more than 250 days of work interruption, 4 accidents to more than 150 days of work interruption and 5 accidents between 100 and 150 days of work interruption. 17 accidents accounted for 54% of the days of work recorded. I also have a table of the nature of the injuries, year a year, but I suggest I hand them over. If we analyse the violence against police personnel from the point of view of accidents, in particular those involving physical injuries, we will see a decrease in the number of accidents by 2017, which was of course a special year. The above figures are based on the data collected for the year 2017. I don't have the figures for 2108 yet. In reply to your third question, violence against police personnel is a theme that I take from me to follow very closely. Several measures can be taken to better protect policemen. The corps lines at local and federal level play a crucial role in this. As far as prevention is concerned, several measures have already been replaced. However, they need to evolve further in order to achieve maximum protection for police personnel. Several steps have already been taken in the field of training. Training for continuous training in the control of violence among police officers now focuses more on communicative and psychosocial skills. The aim is to improve the anticipation and assessment of situations of violence on the ground. The development of this type of skills is also addressed in basic training, not only in the training modules on violence and stress management, but also, for example, in the modules on police deontology and communication. In collaboration with the prevention advisors of the Directorate for Prevention and Protection at Work, several risk analyses are carried out, both for operational tasks and for accepted management in the public area as well as for equipment and infrastructure, in order to evaluate the best way to tackle a task. It analyses the risks, whether individual or collective protective equipment should be used, etc. These analyses result in a formal opinion of the prevention consultant and are submitted to the negotiating committee. Two tools were developed to inform staff in the event of a violent incident. Firstly, there is the website violence against members of the police force, to inform staff who are victims of aggression about the offer of support, and the steps to be taken in the area of administration. Secondly, there is the production of monthly prevention sheets, with lessons learned from the past in order to prevent the same accident from happening again. In reply to your fourth and final question, I will confine myself to the actions at federal level. Undoubtedly, the Brussels Capital-Elsene Corps also has measures in place. In addition to the measures I have mentioned above, there is the law on anonymity, under the potpourri IV Act, which regulates the protection of the identity of police officers in judicial proceedings. In addition, in April 2018, an amendment was made to Article 41 of the Police Office Act concerning the use of the intervention number and no longer the name. Secondly, an amendment to the law on the police office has allowed the use of dashcams and bodycams by police forces since March 2018, which can act as a deterrent and prevent violence against the police. Third, the Law of 19 July 2018 amending several provisions relating to police services and to the Roman institutions provides for an extension of cases in which free legal assistance may be granted for facts occurring during the performance of the duties or for the purposes of the post of police officer. Finally, a draft royal decree was drawn up to compensate police officers who become victims of a serious act of violence for costs not currently reimbursed under existing regulations. The design of royal decree is currently subject to the various forms of foster care. Forgive me for the comprehensive answer, but this is an important matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer with a lot of figures. I'll read some things quietly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u14	Minister, at the beginning of September, together with Secretary of State Theo Francken, you launched a nine-point plan to combat illegal transmigration. The plan focuses on the entire journey of migrants. One of the measures is more intensive police controls along the motorways. In order to prevent human trafficking and nuisance, there will also be more controls along the routes of the transmigrants. The coordination of these controls will be carried out by the provincial governors. Highway parking is also provided with better security. Flemish Minister of Mobility Ben Weyts will take care of this and private surveillance will continue. Previously, that task was carried out by the federal government. I have four questions about this, Minister. Can you tell me how many police checks have been carried out in the last three months? What exactly is the coordinating role of the provincial governors? Can you explain in what way the consideration of the security of highway parkings from the federal to the regional level was organised? Was continuity ensured in this respect? Do you intend to provide any further assistance for the surveillance of highway parkings?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u15	Ms Lahaye-Battheu, between 1 June and 31 August 2018, a total of 65 actions against transit migration took place and were notified nationally. Per province this gives the following picture: 15 actions in Antwerp, 9 actions in the Brussels Capital Region, no actions in Hainaut and Limburg, 2 actions in Liège, 1 action in Luxembourg, 11 actions in Namur, 7 actions in East Flanders, 3 actions in Flemish Brabant, 2 actions in Walloon Brabant and 15 actions in West Flanders. The transit migrants usually depart from the north of France and from Brussels towards the seaports of Calais and Zeebrugge. A much tried and tested technique is climbing into trucks that drive to the UK. For this purpose the transit migrants go to the resting places for truck drivers. Often these are highway parkings towards the coast in the provinces of East and West Flanders and Flemish Brabant. In order to avoid the controls and supervision there, transit migrants also look more inland for a quiet highway parking. As a result, groups of transit migrants are regularly found in the other provinces. The police are already making a great deal of effort and the aim is to optimise the impact of these efforts and to focus on the current hotspots. The joint input, coordination, integrated approach and close monitoring of the phenomenon should avoid a shift effect as much as possible. If necessary, efforts will be shifted. As for your second question, the coordinating role of the provincial governors means that they closely follow the evolution of the phenomenon in their province. They shall hold structural consultations with the mayors concerned and with the various actors. Together with the DirCos of the police, they form a tandem in the coordination and planning of the actions. In order to make the best use of available capacity and resources and to increase the effectiveness of actions, provincial coordination is important, but not sufficient. Mutual consultation between the provincial governors can also contribute to better coordination and planning across the provincial borders. Politically, national coordination has been requested from the DAO. The objective of this provincial coordination is an integrated approach tailored to what is happening elsewhere and with a view to a possible shift effect, with the solidarity of all partners in achieving maximum impact. I will answer your third and fourth questions together. Since mid-April, private surveillance of the Flemish highway parks has been taken over by the Flemish government. That's what happened. It didn't break. The direction and designation of the highway parkings remained under the direction of the federal police. There has been no takeover in Wallonia. Private surveillance is no longer in place there. Actions are still being carried out at the motorway parks, under the coordination of the DirCos. These actions will continue to take place. The place of deployment of private surveillance at the highway parkings is determined by the federal police. Every night we guard five parkings with private surveillance, but it is the DirCo's that determine where another night those five security orders will be executed. This is done on the basis of numbers and surprise effects. I can tell you that Westkerke's parking lot is permanently guarded by a private security company.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u16	Questions Nos 26757, 26761, 26763, 26765, 26766 and 26767 by Mr Nollet are postponed. Questions Nos 26758, 26759 and 26760 by Mr Nollet are converted into a written question. Questions Nos 26780, 26834 and 26835 by Mr Thiébaut are converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez Fernandez 26831 converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 26833 will be converted into a written question. Questions Nos 26902, 26903, 26904 and 26906 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu are converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u17	Minister, the reform of Emergency Preparedness has already generated many reactions and questions. First of all, the vision of this reform itself, then the options that have been chosen, including the number of locations maintained or removed, but also the geographical locations of the posts retained. I do not want to discuss these last points here, even though the stakes remain important and the choice of location appears to me to be nebulous and contrary to optimising the operationality of civil security in Belgian territory. I would like to return to your communication during the summer holidays in which you discuss the very future of civil protection officers. You mentioned how staff who can continue their careers in the Civil Protection operational units will be selected. The latter questions two points. First of all, regarding the method of selecting agents, you speak of tests in the form of competitions since you refer to the ranking of candidates. Can we summarize the career and skills of an agent in a single competition? This will have a unique impact on the continuation of the professional career of agents who have worked for many years to provide the best service to the citizen. If the published information is accurate, the first ranked will be able to claim to keep their job, the others will have to find work elsewhere! Secondly, with regard to the guidelines which can be taken by candidates who will not be placed in useful order, it would appear that, I quote: "Those who would not be ranked among the best will be able to apply in a rescue zone". Minister, how should the personnel and leaders of the relief zones understand this message? That the "less good" will do very well in the relief areas and therefore that the level expected in these areas is not up to the level expected at the federal level? Can you clarify and better argue these messages, both for the Civil Protection staff and for the personnel and leaders of the emergency areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u18	Mr Delannois, I shall start with some clarifications. As a result of the tests conducted as part of the Civil Protection Reform, 31 generalist sergeants and 94 generalist captains are to be selected as part of the new staffing cadres of each unit in Crisnée and Brasschaat. Those who will not be selected will be redirected to other services as of January 1, 2019. However, it is not true that those who fail must automatically apply in the emergency areas for recruitment. Staff may choose whether or not to participate in the selection process because, for example, they prefer to continue working in their area. There are eight other possibilities, including power plants 112, FPS, the Office of Foreigners. A transition to fire services is also planned. Those who choose to leave Civil Protection or who have not passed the test will be personally supervised to find the best solution taking into account their talents, place of residence and ambitions. It is therefore wrong to say that if the candidate fails the test, he will be sent to the fire zones. That's not the case. We will continue with these people to find the best solution. There is no question of forcing resignation. We will find a solution in line with the wishes of each candidate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u19	Mr Minister, you confirm that the rescue areas are still free to engage "whoever they want".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u20	To be precise, they are, except for two areas: those which take over the tasks of civil protection. This is first of all Jabbeke, where sea-related missions are carried out. In this case, it is up to us to appoint nine agents who are familiar with these tasks. The same applies to the SHAPE sector, where five officers are involved. The other rescue zones are free to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your clarifications dissipate some areas of shadow. I also thank Mr Nollet for letting me speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament 26929 by Mrs Ben Hamou and the combined questions No. Mr Hellings, No. 269445 Question No 270, by Mrs Gabriels and No 27086 27106 Mrs Ben Hamou have been postponed. Mr Nollet, are some of your questions a priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u23	Mr President, given the time available to us, I shall confine myself to questions Nos 26966, 26967 and 27102. I shall therefore go to the essentials and a series of questions will be turned into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u24	Mr President, Minister, at least every fortnight, unfortunately we are used to dialogue on the situation of nuclear reactors in Belgium. This time, I really wish we could go back to the situation of Tihange 2 and Doel 4. Since we know the situation in Doel 3 and Tihange 3, we want to see clearly, in particular, the situation in Tihange 2. I do not hide from you that I was surprised by the ENGIE press release of 28 September 2018 which says that "disparities between the design originally described and the visual inspection carried out after stripping have also been detected on some buildings". That says everything without being precise. My question is what these gaps are. What diagnosis was made on Tihange 2 and Doel 4? Is there also a problem with reinforcements? We know that there is a concrete problem but it would seem, if the information published last night is correct, that, behind this sibyllin press release by ENGIE, there is also a problem of reinforcements, in any case on Tihange 2 and perhaps also on Doel 4. You'll tell us. My question is also about whether, as with Doel 3, there is a lack of maintenance and therefore a clear responsibility in the head of Electrabel. I know that this has consequences because, if there is a liability, Electrabel will have to bear the costs, including to counter rising consumer prices. What about the Tihange 2 reinforcements? What about the lack of maintenance? Finally, minister, how do you explain what you were told in October 2017? I don't know if you remember. These plants and concrete have been discussed for a long time. You say: "There is indeed a problem in Doel 3 but the other three plants concerned, including Tihange 2, have been checked and I can assure you that they do not present any problems. I was able to prove it in a credible way." This is the response sent by ENGIE to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency and validated by ENGIE. Today, however, there is a problem in Tihange 2 with concrete, in any case, and probably also with reinforcements. So I also wanted to ask you about this dimension.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u25	Mr President, Mr Nollet, first of all, let me refer to the detailed explanation given by the AFCN at the nuclear safety sub-committee that met yesterday. I assume you have been able to ask all your technical questions directly to the said Agency. Concrete damage was observed at Doel 4 and Tihange 2. However, a precise diagnosis has not yet been made by the operator, as investigations are still under way at these two reactors. The necessary work will be defined once the diagnosis has been completed. A priori, there is no problem of non-conformity in the positioning of reinforcements at Doel 4. This must, of course, be confirmed and validated by the security authority. The investigations in Tihange 2 are still ongoing, but have already shown indications of anomalies in the positioning of the reinforcements. The AFCN has not yet received a detailed report on these results. In summary, a non-compliance has already been found in Tihange 2 and investigations are still taking place in Doel 4. The inspections carried out in previous judgments concluded that work would be necessary during the 2018 judgments. It appears that the severity of the damage was incorrectly estimated and that the repair work should have taken place earlier. The operator, aware that these findings indicated that the previous inspections had not been properly interpreted and that the corrective measures of the past had not been applied in time to repair the concrete permanently, initiated a series of improvements in the monitoring and maintenance of civilian structures as a result of the Doel 3 problem. Following the discovery of concrete damage on Doel 3, AFCN asked the operator whether such a phenomenon could also occur in other reactors with similar bunker design (Doel 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3). It should be noted that, for conventional safety reasons, an inspection of the premises in question can only be carried out during the shutdown of a reactor. On the basis of the evidence available at that time (differences in the design of the premises concerned, no evidence of significant damage during previous inspections of the premises), the Agency did not consider it necessary to impose an emergency shutdown of the reactors in order to inspect the premises in question. On the basis of the new elements and the unexpected results regarding the non-conformity of the reinforcements after the inspection of Tihange 3, it was then decided to advance the scheduled stop of Doel 4, the Tihange 2 judgment being imminent. At that time, it was not considered necessary to anticipate it. As indicated yesterday, the AFCN will also draw the necessary lessons from this file in order to improve the monitoring of aging and maintenance on both the part of the operator and the safety authority. This is inherent in the role of the safety authority, which is constantly seeking continuous improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u26	Minister, I thank you for this clarification because, as usual with you, we have elements. In your answer, we realize that the problem is even more serious than what was originally imagined. In Tihange 2 too, there is a problem not only of concrete but of reinforcements. But where is this blacklist going to stop? For Doel 4, we'll see. You say the exams are still in progress. Nevertheless, I noted in your reply that you confirm that the operator, Electrabel, had misjudged the situation. I therefore consider that there is a clear responsibility on the part of Electrabel with regard to the problems encountered today, since there has been a bad estimate. This leads to tension in the electricity market. We're not going to talk about shortage. We'll see. This tension leads to an increase in prices. I therefore consider that Electrabel is responsible for this part of the price increase. Since Electrabel is in default, since it has a heavy responsibility, I ask you, Minister, to return to justice, so that the impact on the bills of citizens and SMEs is taken over by the only person responsible, namely Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u27	Minister, during our exchange on September 19, you had the opportunity to make a topo of the situation on September 13. I would like to update this topo by asking you the following questions. Minister, has AFCN validated the stripping work in the 2nd and 3rd premises? Have the investigations also led to the need to strip the ceilings of the corridors leading to the already decapitated premises? Has ENGIE been able to demonstrate the structural integrity of the affected interior walls? Has the repair method tested in the first stripped room since then been validated? What is this method? Has ENGIE already submitted a complete dossier on the resistance of the building with rebar problems? Has the PSAN already validated the conclusions? What do these conclusions say? Has the AFCN validated ENGIE's hypothesis as to the cause of the misposition of the frames? At Doel 3, the AFCN had identified a maintenance defect. Is it the same for Tihange 3? AFCN said it was going to review its methods, which I appreciate, because it obviously went through the analysis of the situation. The questions are precise and technical. I allow myself to ask them because I hear that some people imagine that they will be able to restart Tihange 3 earlier than expected. I'm worried. I can feel the pressure, including the operator. I see at the moment the communication from the AFCN saying that we could imagine that the power plant would restart faster. It just came out! While all these questions are asked and the problems only appear day by day, do you think this is the time to imagine reviving Tihange 3 faster than expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u28	Mr Nollet, I can answer your last question very clearly. If standards are met, we can restart. Otherwise, we're not going to restart. I always said it. As for your ninth question, I have already answered it. Moreover, the stripping work of the 2nd and 3rd premises has been authorized and carried out in general, but they are not yet ready to be received. Then, the ceilings of the corridors leading to them were decapitated. In addition, the diagnosis of sails is still under way. The method of repair was authorized. A test area has been set up to validate its application. It consists of stripping up to healthy concrete. The aim is then to protect the reinforcements and, finally, to repair the installations by means of a mortar. Several tests must be carried out during the various stages to ensure that the repair is effective and that the repaired roof can perform its safety function. In addition, a file is being examined by the Security Authority. For your eighth question, ENGIE has hypothesized the cause of the poor positioning of the reinforcements that would have moved due to the pressure exerted by the concrete. Although this theory seems quite reasonable, the AFCN does not at this time have any information to confirm it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u29	Minister, thank you again for the very specific aspects of your responses. At the turn of these answers, we realize that nothing is yet clear about the causes or origins. At this stage, even the hypothesis formulated by ENGIE Electrabel is not validated by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. That is, we are still far from having solved the problems, since even the assumptions are not yet validated by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. If I have allowed myself to ask the question, and I appreciated your development at the beginning, it is because we hear some experts outside the Agency saying that we could do without these bunkers, these last-aid buildings, considering that this is a second level. I understand that's not your line.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u30	As I said in plenary last week, in neighbouring countries, many power plants are devoid of this second layer. But at home, it's an obligation. We are not going to change that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u31	I wanted to hear you repeat this, because in other countries, of course, there is no such measure, but other measures are planned instead, which we do not have. It's a whole, of course. It's post-Fukushima, post-attacks, etc. We agree on that. It is essential not to straddle the security elements at a time when there are difficulties. That is not the time to change the law. Thank you for your confirmation. However, when we see the list of things that still need to be done, we can say that we are not yet at the end of the work. I will insist on one specific point. You talked about the roof, which needs to be completely repaired for the concrete problem. Minister, do not allow the plant to be restarted until the roof is finished. I know that this assumption is being considered and that the operator could put pressure on it. I say to you: as for Doel 3, we must first have completed all the work. Safety first! This is your job, you know! You have imposed security above all for Doel 3 with the help of the Agency, do not change for Tihange 3, even if Electrabel would like to put pressure on it. We will come back to this issue at a later stage. I'm not saying it's the case right now, but it's a risk. I prefer to warn you and pay attention to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u32	Minister, you've seen the photos published by the RTBF. They date back to 2016. That's what caught me. Indeed, when we listen to Electrabel's speech, the problem was born in October 2017. Unless these photos are fake... What do the reports sent by the operation to the AFCN say? When did the Agency receive this? In 2017? ENGIE Electrabel would have hidden these elements for months or was the Agency notified of the problem immediately? In this case, it would have validated the continued operation of this plant, despite these hallucinating images. You can see the corrosion. It's not just a concrete problem. So, again, when were these items sent? What do previous reports say? What do the AFCN internal reports say? Yesterday, I asked his general manager a question. I asked him when the Agency inspectors first went to the bunker. He couldn't answer me. He will do it later. I'm afraid they never went there before the problem broke out and they have to deal with it as a matter of urgency. This would be another problem, which would relate to how the AFCN manages this file. Reassuring me beforehand: did the operator ENGIE transmit these photos to you immediately, and not a year later?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u33	Mr.Nollet, in various media, photos of the concrete degradation observed in 2016 and 2017 in the bunkerized building housing the nozzles of the steam exhaust valves of the Doel reactor have been published. These photos, which come from an operator's internal document, clearly show the concrete damage to the walls and ceilings of the premises. Meanwhile, the damage was completely repaired and AFCN gave its green light for Doel 3 to restart on July 12. For conventional safety reasons - because of the risk of steam release when the reactor is in operation - these bunkerized buildings can only be inspected during periodic shutdown for reactor overhaul. In previous inspections, the operator had found concrete damage at various locations, which could be explained by the exposure of concrete to a warm and humid environment. During the revisions, the operator performed repairs and/or renovations in order to restore the premises to a proper condition. The inspections, at the time of the 2016 revision, had shown further concrete damage in an area that had not been repaired before. The operator had therefore decided to repair the concrete during the 2017 revision. As the AFCN explained yesterday at the sub-committee, it can be said that the situation in these rooms had not been properly assessed and that, in the past, the necessary corrective measures had not been taken to permanently restore the concrete degradation. A number of improvement measures in the area of monitoring and maintenance have therefore been put in place by the operator.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u34	Mr. Minister, thank you, but it doesn't tell me when the operator informed AFCN.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u35	To be honest, we didn't find time to answer your question precisely because the AFCN staff is involved in the inspections.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u36	I understand, but the question is extremely important. I respect our exchanges, but since there will be no more committees for three or four weeks, I would ask you to give me further details before the next committee. Otherwise we won't make it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u37	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u38	Mr President, I would like to turn my questions attached to item 32 of the agenda into written questions because we no longer have time to deal with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-03-54-commissie-ic974x.u39	The attached questions Nos 26968 and 27103 by Mr Jean-Marc Nollet are therefore transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 26969, 26970 and 26971 by Mr Nollet are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament No 26977, by Mr Nollet and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) Mr Thiébaut's 27095 were also converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 269, by Mr Nollet and Questions No 26978 President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr Thiébaut's 27093 were also converted into written questions. Question No 28, by Mr De Gucht Mr Thiébaut's 27094 was converted into a written question.
