ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne; Mr Dallemagne;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u2	Mr President, Minister, my question dates from three months ago when Prime Minister Theresa May and her government took a stand on the Brexit. At that time, the strategy was to pursue a soft Brexit and to bring it closer to the EU. Meanwhile, a lot has changed. I'd like to hear from you what's going on. Have you had any contact with the British ambassador? How realistic is the British Government's position? How do you see the negotiations evolving?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u3	Mr Minister, although my question goes back to 22 June, it is unfortunately or fortunately still topical. On 28 and 29 June a European Council was held, during which the follow-up of Brexit was discussed in a configuration of 27. It is this last point that concerns me today. More than two years after the British vote, and less than a year, at nine months, to be precise, of the effective withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the Union, it must be noted that a certain blur, if not a certain blur, remains in many respects. In particular, you discussed, based on information provided by the Chief Negotiator, Michel Barnier, issues relating to the withdrawal and border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. Moreover, I was recently in Dublin, where I had the opportunity to discuss with the new Irish Prime Minister. You also discussed the framework for future relations between the Union and the United Kingdom. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, can you give us a point on the negotiations in the light of this European Council? I would remind you that the British Prime Minister was then stuck between Messrs. Johnson and Barnier. It's not a comfortable position! What is your analysis of the negotiations, but also of the domestic political situation in the United Kingdom? We were thus able to see, in the Labour Party Congress, that the base is increasingly advocating for a second referendum, even if its leader has opposed it. What are the power relations at work on this issue? While a treaty is to be concluded this month, what are the persistent blockages? We know that they are particularly on the Irish side. Finally, we must be prepared for any eventuality and therefore imagine that no agreement will be reached until March 2019. Minister, what would be the consequences of a lack of agreement for the European Union? We were able to read in today's press that Wallonia would certainly be less affected than Flanders, but that Belgium in general would be, it seems to me, the country most affected after Ireland by this hard Brexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u4	Mr President, Minister, my question is of a more recent date. I put them in response to the informal summit in Salzburg on the Brexit. All the media have already said that we are approaching a critical stage in the Brexit debacle. In less than six months, the division of property will be a fact anyway. If one thing was clear at that summit in Salzburg, it is that there is no agreement within reach. I'll come straight to my questions. We are now looking at two crucial European summits, one in October and possibly a second one a month later. How do you estimate the chances of a positive result? Is the timetable still feasible? How do you see a possible solution to break the deadlock? You stated in the Chamber that you were in favour of European aid, in the budgetary field, for Member States that will be heavily affected by the Brexit. In Flanders, for example, ports and SMEs will suffer considerable disadvantages. The difficult negotiations on the European long-term budget 2021/2027 have started in Brussels. Is there agreement at European level on such budgetary intervention? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to point out that progress has been made on the open issues relating to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom. Negotiations are being conducted by the European Commission under the leadership of Michel Barnier, who is in charge of the Article 50 task force, as has been recalled. Among the remaining bottlenecks, the North Irish problem and governance, including in particular the role of the Court of Justice of the European Union, remain the most important. By safeguarding the unity of the twenty-seven, the European Union and Belgium confirmed their solidarity with Ireland and their support for Michel Barnier, particularly at the informal summit in Salzburg on 19 and 20 September. If no agreement is reached before March 2019, and if the possibility of continuing negotiations on Article 50 is not activated, the consequences of Brexit will indeed be serious enough for the European Union, but certainly much more for the United Kingdom. Trade should take place on the basis of WTO rules, which could lead to the introduction of tariffs and non-tariff barriers. In order to avoid such a scenario and to reach an agreement that minimizes the negative effects of Brexit, the European and Belgian services work together on a daily basis. I do not, of course, wish to comment on the United Kingdom's domestic policy, which is still moving from minute to minute, depending on the news from some congresses. In reply to Mr Van Peteghem's questions, I would like to say that following an analysis by my department and the other competent authorities in Belgium, several problems were intensified in connection with the British White Paper. There are, for example, the proposed economic cooperation, the customs model and the governance part. The UK proposal in its present form undermines the basic principles laid down unanimously by the European Council, the indivisibleness of the four freedoms, the internal market, the level playing field between the EU and the UK, the preservation of European decision-making autonomy and the protection of the role of the Court of Justice of the European Union. For example, it is not possible to differentiate goods and services without giving Great Britain a competitive advantage, since the production of goods sometimes involves a large percentage of services. At the informal European Council in Salzburg, the European Union and Belgium agreed that the positive and workable elements of the British White Paper, for example those on internal and external security, should be welcomed. This is a step in the right direction, but some parts are unacceptable. In reply to Mr Luykx's question about a possible evolution in the British position, we assume that if there is movement, it will only come after the Congress of British Conservatives. Tomorrow's the end of the conference. If substantial progress is noted at the European Council on Article 50 of 18 October, President Tusk is prepared to organise an extraordinary European Council on Article 50 in mid-November. As you rightly said, Mr Luykx, time is short, but we hope that there will soon be a political breakthrough, as the technical work is largely completed. We fully support Union negotiator Barnier in his efforts to dedramatise Northern Ireland's problems and find acceptable solutions for all. We believe that this is the key to a breakthrough. There have already been some positive technical developments, but a global agreement has not yet been reached. The absolute priority of the 27 in the most likely scenario thus remains to find an agreement. Maintaining unity among the 27 EU countries remains a necessary condition. My services receive the British Ambassador and her staff very regularly, and they are therefore well aware of the above Belgian analysis of the White Paper. I held a bilateral meeting in New York a few weeks ago with my new British colleague, Jeremy Hunt, and with future members of the United Nations Security Council, in 2019. Our British colleague has provided information on the high risk of a no deal. Once again, we are doing everything we can to reach an agreement. As regards the possible financial support at EU level for stakeholders affected by a Brexit, I can tell you that negotiations are under way on the next Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027. During these talks and beyond, it was made clear that Belgium is in favour of financial support for affected stakeholders. The two meetings of the General Affairs Council concerned the multiannual financial framework and the Brexit. However, at the moment there is no concrete proposal, except perhaps the use of the cohesion fund, but I do not think that is the best solution. Elements are still being examined with the other Member States and the Commission. I have said quite clearly that Belgium is the most affected country, together with Ireland and the Netherlands, I confirm that all regions will be particularly affected in Belgium. However, the closer you get to the coast, the harder the shock will be. It is very likely that the effect will be comparable to the importance of the trade we have with Great Britain, which is our fourth trading partner, the second for Flanders and probably the first for Zeebruges. There is therefore a difference between the repercussion on a port such as Zeebrugge and the repercussion on other operators in Belgium. However, we will continue to reach an agreement between the various partners on the aid of the European Union following the Brexit. Finally, I also asked for the same percentage to be retained for the collection costs of customs duties. There is so far a percentage of 20% for the Belgian Treasury. The rest is for the European Union. In the multiannual plan there is a proposal from the European Commission to go back to 10%, which we cannot do unless there is very strong aid in another area. You know that after the Brexit there will also be more and more tasks for customs. That will be even more the case without an agreement with Great Britain. So we are also continuing our search for possible European support in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers. You have a more than sharp knowledge of this so complicated evolution of Brexit. Personally, I believe that the difficulty of these negotiations will deter other States from moving in the same direction. My heart still gives me hope that at the last moment, Britain will accept a second referendum, although during its accession to the European Union, it has been a brake rather than an accelerator. I would add that the British MEPs were the best, unlike the French, who are never present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We look forward to the conclusion of the Congress of the Conservatives and to what will happen in the coming months. As you said, the impact is the most severe on the coasts, at the borders closest to the UK. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Thoron's 26567 will be converted into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 26672 and 26582 of my own and Question No Mr Dallemagne's 26575 will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u9	Minister, it has been known for some time that Saudi Arabia does not have a good reputation for women's rights. The country is therefore in 138th place in the Global Gender Gap Report. That is why there was a commotion when Saudi Arabia joined the UN Committee on Women's Rights. For a moment there was some hope for change, when Muhamad Bin Salman announced reforms, allowing women to finally drive or visit sports stages, but that hope was already crushed by women who express their opinion freely being systematically arrested and locked up. The most recent example is the arrest of Samar Badawi and Nassima al-Sada for their activism last summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u10	Following these arrests, a diplomatic conflict has arisen between Canada and Saudi Arabia. Canada advocates the release of women's rights activists, but the Saudi Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not tolerate criticism of human rights violations and freezes all relations and trade transactions with and flights to Canada, which is rather strong. A firm response from our government is therefore pressing. Indeed, Saudi Arabia runs counter to the necessary efforts to respect women's rights in the country and thus goes against international agreements. As a member of the United Nations Commission for the Status of Woman, Saudi Arabia was able to show that it was serious about women's rights, but the country really did not make it a lever and that membership is regrettable. In addition, we cannot accept that Saudi Arabia is on a collision course with an ally, simply because Saudi Arabia simply reminds us of international agreements. Mr Minister, we have not really heard a strong response from our government in this respect. How do you respond to the systematic intimidation, arrests and imprisonment of human and women's rights activists? Did you talk to the authorities in Saudi Arabia about that? How do you respond to the diplomatic conflict between Canada and Saudi Arabia? Will Belgium in the UN Committee on Women's Rights, which meets annually, take a stand against the Saudi Government on the arrests and detentions of human rights activists?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u11	Mr Minister, I refer to the introduction to the written preparation of my oral question and to Mr Van Hoof's introduction, and I would therefore confine myself to the questions I had prepared. However, I cannot fail to remind you of the debates we have had on CETA. During these discussions, we were struck by the fact that we did not show our connection with Canada, a country that is so close to us and whose values we share. I was therefore surprised that the Canadian Minister Freeland did not receive direct support from Belgium or other European countries in the outbreak of the diplomatic conflict. Minister, why has Belgium not explicitly and explicitly supported its ally Canada in the diplomatic conflict? Minister, what is your response to the recent Saudi state campaign to lock up women's rights activists and human rights defenders? What is your response to the statement by the Saudi Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 5 August 2018 that it will no longer accept any criticism of its internal policies? Will you from now on leave open criticism of the lack of human and women's rights in the country unmentioned? Have you already had contact with the Saudi authorities in Belgium and in the country concerned with regard to the detention of the activists? Do you not believe that Saudi Arabia, which is part of the UN Women's Rights Council thanks to Belgium's vote, is thereby violating fundamental human rights and is diametrically opposed to the guidelines of the UN Committee on Women's Rights of 26 February 2018? Has Belgium in the Committee on Women's Rights of the UN called on Saudi Arabia to do so? If not, is Belgium planning to do so? If it's not going to, why not? Finally, is the current state campaign against women's rights activists not inconsistent with the quoted statement by Minister Alexander De Croo on 9 May 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u12	I share your concern about women's rights in Saudi Arabia and assure you that the situation in this regard is closely monitored by the Belgian Embassy in Riyadh, by our female ambassador in Riyadh and by the competent services in Brussels. The arrests of human rights defenders are worrying, as this seems to go against the newly acquired social achievements introduced by the Saudi government. From the first arrests, in May of this year, Belgium has expressed its concerns formally and through the regular diplomatic channels, both at the billal level and at EU level. My services have underlined the important and also necessary role of human rights activists in every society. It was also stated that these developments in Saudi Arabia cannot be reconciled with Saudi membership of the UN Commission on the Women's Statute. However, it is unlikely that membership will be compromised in the absence of membership criteria for the CSW. At the most recent meeting of the UN Commission on Women's Statute in March 2018, that problem was not yet addressed, as the first arrests of human rights defenders took place in May 2018. In this connection, I would like to point out that the Committee on Women's Statute meets two weeks a year. Belgium takes a position in all appropriate fora on the arrest and detention of human rights defenders in Saudi Arabia. For example, during the September session of the Human Rights Council, our country expressed its concern about the arrests. What drives my policy is the way in which our country can best assist the arrested human rights defenders. Our actions must support and not undermine the efforts already made to speed up the release of human rights defenders. After a thorough analysis of the complex context, I opt for sustained and sustained action behind the scenes. The Saudi authorities are aware of the Belgian position. Our concerns have been communicated to them, both in Riyadh and during contacts in Brussels and last week in New York to my colleague from Saudi Arabia, Mr Al-Jubeir. The diplomatic crisis between Saudi Arabia and Canada is a bilateral issue on which Belgium and the EU have not made a statement by enlargement, but we have been in contact with Canada. The Prime Minister also met Mr Trudeau in New York. It is also important for our country to walk the talk on women's rights. Belgium is the first country in the world to appoint a female ambassador to Riyadh. This was welcomed by both the Saudi government and the royal family. It illustrates once again our country's leading role in this area. The theme is addressed at both ministerial and administrative level at each bilateral meeting. It is important that Belgium continues to engage in dialogue with the Saudi authorities on this issue, which will allow the cautious steps taken in the social field to evolve further. By the way, I spoke with my colleague Al-Jubeir, during my contact in New York, not only about human rights, but also about the closure of the Great Mosque and about greater transparency of the financial transfers from Saudi Arabia to Belgium and other countries. I have received concrete confirmation that Riyadh has indeed decided to close the Great Mosque and to be transparent about funding. This will give us a first list of projects financed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u13	I have just come back from the presentation of the memoirs by Miet Smet, another former colleague of yours, who was praised by our country as Minister of State. I've gained a dose of activism there. Minister, you are talking about behind-the-scenes contacts in Riyadh, Brussels and New York. What is happening in Saudi Arabia on equal opportunities between men and women is still widespread. If that is the way things are going, one must sometimes dare to express one's opinion on a political level. This must not therefore be done in the international press; it can also be made clear through the Belgian press that these things cannot be accepted at international level. That is an important signal and one must dare to do so occasionally. We also do this with Congo, if human rights are violated, and this must also be possible with regard to the Middle East. In that respect, I do not want two sizes and two weights. Women's rights in the Middle East are also sensitive to Belgian public opinion. That is why it is good that you also occasionally say a number of things about women's rights in the Middle East in front of the scenes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u14	Minister, I would like to read out the strong statement made by Minister De Croo. I assume the government is one whole and Minister de Croo has spoken on behalf of the government. I quote his statement of 9 May 2017: "Now that Saudi Arabia is a member of the UN Women's Rights Council, we must do everything we can to improve the fate of Saudi women through confrontation and tough negotiations." That's a nice, strong explanation. What's going on? The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Saudi Arabia, following a reasonable position, I believe, by Minister Freeland of Canada, declares that Canada is being sanctioned. He says that his country will no longer accept any criticism of his internal policies. What does Belgium do? After the strong statement by Minister De Croo, we back off. We have listened to the Saudi Minister and we are criticizing him behind the scenes. I am sorry, Minister, but that disappoints me. I remember the passionate words I heard from you, among other things, about the betrayal of the left-wing parties in Parliament when they voted against CETA, which would leave Canada in the cold. I note that Canada is now all alone. Even those who have used exalted words about this in the past are now deadly silent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u15	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, recently, we found that the Royal Order of July 8, 2018 provided the Executive Committee with the opportunity to appoint to a current position those holders of a management or supervisory function of the FPS Foreign Affairs who did not belong to the external career or career of government officials and who have served at least one term with the FPS. The situation draws particular attention to the moment and context in which this decree was adopted. Clearly, some have referred to the fact that he would be intended to facilitate the appointment of Mr. Dirk Achten to the position of Ambassador. We do not question his skills in any way. However, according to the press of July, in Belgian diplomacy, this royal decree is sometimes perceived with some distrust. The atmosphere is obviously not beautiful and we can easily understand it. On the one hand, it appears to be unfair to those who have held all the previous duties for many years – generating some experience that is necessary – and, on the other hand, it opens the door to appointments that may seem biased. Minister, what are the implications for the functioning of future appointments? This royal decree could have serious repercussions within the embassies, more specifically in terms of the atmosphere. Do you not fear a deterioration in the relationship, indirectly resulting in conflicts that may affect the cordiality and the proper continuation of the function's activities? Finally, an ambassador is appointed on the basis of his merit and the conditions of appointment are, quite rightly, binding. What are the guarantees in relation to the experience in principle necessary and required for the performance of such a function?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u16	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, Article 21 of the Royal Decree on the organisation of the FPS Foreign Affairs, as amended by the Royal Decree of 8 July 2018 to which you refer, effectively sets out the conditions under which it is possible to designate persons who do not belong to the external career and consular career in posts. Such a possibility is not new. It was already included for State officials in an organic regulation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 1999. She was not subject to any conditions at the time. It was only made clear that this should be an exceptional measure. The new Article 21 of the Organic Regulation is of a different nature. It certainly allows the Executive Committee to propose to the Minister that he appoint in a post a CPS State official, a CPS contract staff member who is employed at the head office, or a CPS manager or manager who does not belong to the external career. This possibility is now subject to very strict conditions. It is first provided that such designation may only take place when the Executive Committee has found that there is no external career or consular officer who applied for the open position or none of the external career officers who applied meets the requirements resulting from a special need arising in the course of that function. Two assumptions are covered. The first concerns the case where no external career officers are available. The Management Committee may then propose the appointment of a person from another category, provided that he or she meets the requirements. In the second case where external career agents are available, the possibility of appointing non-external career workers is subject to additional conditions. First, a special need must first have been identified in the performance of a position. This special need is defined as the performance of tasks requiring temporarily relevant exceptional knowledge and experience. Second, the Executive Committee will have to have found that there are no external career officers available who meet these requirements. External and consular career officers will therefore retain a priority in both cases. In view of these conditions, it is therefore clear that if this change has consequences in the context of future designations, they will only be marginal and will also have to be duly justified. In addition, the conditions for access by persons who do not belong to the external career to the performance of the duties in office provide the necessary guarantees. In order to be considered for appointment to the post, they will have to be at the same level and level as those required of candidates from the external career for the same post. They will have to meet language requirements identical to those required for external career officers. They will also have to have a useful and proven experience of at least six years in the subjects that are the subject of the position. The designation of a non-external career will be limited to four non-renewable years. I would add that, with regard to the holders of management functions, since you mentioned one, they are persons who sit on the FPS Foreign Affairs Executive Committee and perform high-level leadership and representation functions in that capacity. The management function holders have also successfully passed a particularly demanding selection procedure for the Selor, which attests both to their managerial skills and to the specific skills necessary to exercise high responsibilities within the SPF Foreign Affairs. No further changes to the assignment procedure are envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u17	Minister, thank you for that clarification. My question is from July. I imagine that since then you have had different contacts with embassy staff and have been able to clarify the situation so that the atmosphere does not deteriorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u18	I've seen an excellent atmosphere in New York.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u19	Mr Pehlivan asks for her questions. (Applause from the European Democratic Group) Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt has converted 26786 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u20	Mr President, Minister, every year dozens of Belgian teachers are hired by Belgian non-profit organisations to teach in private schools with Belgian programmes in Kinshasa and Lubumbashi. Unfortunately, the difficulties concerning the taxation of the remuneration received by these teachers have still recently been reported. In 2009, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Belgium signed a memorandum of understanding with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. As a result of this international agreement, schools with Belgian programmes in the Democratic Republic of the Congo obtained from the Congolese authority that their expatriate staff should be exempted from obtaining the work permit and the taxes and other fees resulting from the work permit. In other words, Belgian teachers are exempt from paying taxes to the Congolese authority. In return, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Belgium had committed itself to placing schools in Belgian programmes under the status of consular schools. The Belgian Authority has not fulfilled this last obligation and because of this inertia, it is now placing teachers in a disastrous fiscal and social situation. Whereas, as members of consular posts, they should have benefited from Article 27 of the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation (CPDI) signed by Belgium and the DRC and entered into force on 1 January 2012, they became taxable in Belgium because they did not pay taxes in the DRC. Instead of benefiting from Article 27 of the CPDI, they are subject to Article 22 of the CPDI and cannot claim to be exempt in Belgium since they have not been "normally imposed" in the DRC. The Minister of Finance explained to me in February 2017: his administration considers that income is not taxed when it is exempt by virtue of an international agreement (the memorandum in question). In order to be considered taxed, income must have been subject in the other State to the tax system normally applicable to it. In the cases examined, the implementation of the memorandum had the effect that teachers had not been subject to the Congolese tax regime that was normally applicable to them. Teachers in these Congolese schools who have remained residents of the Kingdom are therefore taxable in Belgium on the remuneration paid by Belgian non-profit organisations because their remuneration was not imposed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo by application of the memorandum. It adds that the Belgian tax administration does not, at the same time, inquire about employers' non-payment of professional prepayments. Minister, why conclude a memorandum of understanding to exempt teachers from tax in the DRC and at the same time provoke their taxation in Belgium by forgetting to place, as agreed in the memorandum, schools under consular status? How can you explain this legal-fiscal imbroglio which only harms teachers while saving employers who, had the schools been placed under consular status, should have paid teachers' professional discounts? What actions or initiatives could you undertake to find a solution to this situation and to relieve these teachers, given the delicate and exceptional situation in which they find themselves?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u21	Mr. President, thank you. Mr Dallemagne, in the strategic note I presented in Central Africa in 2016, I recalled the positive role played by educational institutions such as the Belgian schools in Kinshasa and Lubumbashi. They enable hundreds of national and foreign children to enjoy high-quality education in a country where the education system remains disorganized by prolonged insecurity. These schools follow a Belgian curriculum and are recognised by the Flemish Community and the French Community (or Wallonia-Brussels federation). A memorandum of understanding was signed in September 2009 to enable these schools to enjoy privileged status. This memorandum of understanding expired in September 2015, but has been extended several times thanks to the efforts of our embassy. As regards the possibility of establishing a consular school system which would be recognised as such in the Democratic Republic of the Congo - as is the case with France, according to my information - this system is not provided for in our regulations. As you know, teaching is not a federal subject. To my knowledge, the Communities have not shown any interest in setting up such a system. You are free to consult with the competent authorities of our country on this matter and also to contact the Minister of Finance for tax matters. For my part, I will again raise the issue with the Communities. Be assured that our country remains committed to continued cooperation with the Belgian schools in DRC. Our Embassy is continuing its efforts to achieve as soon as possible an acceptable and lasting solution within the legal framework of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, of what is planned in our country, in close consultation with the schools on the spot and the Congolese authorities. Of course, this issue must be considered in the current context of our bilateral relations with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. An interdepartmental conference on foreign policy is scheduled for next week, in particular at the request of the Wallonia-Brussels federation. This item will be resubmitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u22	Minister, thank you. I'm really counting on you to try and unravel this imbroglio. It is not useful to have a ping-pong game between the federal and the federated institutions. According to my information, in this memorandum, signed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, it was intended to be consular schools. It is important not to get the opposite effect than the one sought. A challenge in the Congo must not lead to taxation in Belgium. That wasn't the goal. I therefore count on you, regardless of the responsibilities of each other. All are committed to ensuring that these teachers are able to work under the same conditions, including financial and fiscal conditions. We must avoid the injustice created by a status that wanted to protect them a priori. I believe that, on the fiscal front, the federal state remains competent and that it is therefore possible, beyond consular status, to find a solution. I imagine that, with regard to a double taxation agreement, we can also discuss with the Minister of Finance how to reach a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u23	Mr President, Minister, during the previous parliamentary term, the House had adopted a motion for a resolution whose fourth request to the government stated: "If, following this in-depth and concerted analysis, violations of the letter and spirit of the European Treaties were to be found, to support the implementation of the sanctions provided for in Article 7 with the European Commission and the European Council." On 12 September, the European Parliament decided to use Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union because of the failure to respect the Union's founding values enshrined in Article 2 of that Treaty. Since this mechanism is not limited to the scope of European law, it enables a clear risk of serious infringement to be addressed, as a preventive measure, before it is persistent. The reasons are legitimate: the retirement of judges from office, the limitation of the independence of the Constitutional Court and the judiciary, the violation of the independence and pluralism of the media and the independence of the data protection authority, the violation of migrants' rights and a clear violation of fundamental rights. This mechanism is being expedited following the adoption of European Parliament Resolution 2017/2656 on the situation in Hungary of 17 May 2017. After finding this clear risk of breach, one could now see a serious and persistent breach that could lead to possible sanctions after the unanimous adoption of the other Member States in the Council. Mr Minister, what will be our country's position in the Council following this vote by the European Parliament? As it stands, will we support the implementation of sanctions as provided for in the Treaties?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u24	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, on 12 September the European Parliament adopted a resolution in which it considers that the situation in Hungary as a whole poses a clear risk of serious violation of the values referred to in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union, in particular the rule of law and fundamental rights. The European Parliament has also asked the Council to initiate the procedure under Article 7(1) of the Treaty on European Union and to find that there is such a clear risk of serious infringement. In the next steps provided for in Article 7(1), the Council must first hear Hungary. The Council may also make recommendations. If these measures do not lead to a positive result, the Council may find by a majority of four-fifths of its members that there is a clear risk of serious violation of the fundamental values of the European Union. It seems premature, however, to comment at this stage on the possibility of a possible vote in the Council, since it has not yet had the opportunity to study Parliament's concerns or to hear Hungary's reply. In addition, the European Commission has already taken various initiatives in recent years to ensure respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights in Hungary. The European Commission has thus launched several infringement procedures. Personally, I have always supported the initiatives of the European Commission. I would also like to stress that respect for the fundamental values of the Union by all Member States is of vital importance. Belgium will work tirelessly to achieve this fundamental objective. The last two comments are to remind you, because I know that you are particularly concerned about this situation, that we are making progress on the Polish issue. There was a second hearing to hear Poland's positions in the reform of the judiciary. I asked the question clearly, at the end of the race: why rush into the appointments of new magistrates to replace those who have been retired, if not to try to influence the judicial authority? Otherwise, it was possible to wait. The procedure will continue. The second point is to remind you that we are still working, with very active support from my German and French counterparts in particular, to set up a peer review on values. I believe that we are making more and more strenuous progress. The Commission is now also working on the same idea. The European Parliament, I come back to the beginning of your question, has already supported this idea as well. I therefore do not despair that, before the European elections, a significant step will be taken in establishing control over the values that underpin the European Union, as, year after year, the budgetary and economic situation of the various Member States is monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers and for reminding you of the evolution of the situation. It must be noted that on the ground this is not evolving at all, but on the contrary. It is a pity to see how difficult it is for European states to warn a State that flouts all of our fundamental principles. We will pay attention to the further analysis of the case, and above all to the meeting with Hungary, in order to take stock of the progress of the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u26	Joined Questions No 26838 by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius, No 26855 by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and No 27042 by Mr Benoit Hellings, and Question No 26839 by Mrs Fatma Pehlivan, are postponed. Question No 26840 by Mrs Fatma Pehlivan is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u27	Mr Minister, this is a very complicated dossier. The responsibilities are not clear either, because the dossier started when the current Foreign Minister was the Finance Minister and the latest developments took place while the Finance Minister was Mr Van Overtveldt, whom I will also ask about tomorrow. Because it concerns the UN panel, the Foreign Minister is also responsible for this. With my questions, I want to get a better view of this file. I hope that the answers of the Foreign Minister and the Finance Minister will allow me to continue working on this dossier. Firstly, Minister, what is your response to the findings in the report of this UN expert panel, namely that Belgium has not complied with the conditions of the UN sanctions regime by allowing the proceeds and interest of the frozen Libyan assets to be released? Secondly, do you then conclude that Belgium has violated the UN sanctions regime? If not, how will Belgium defend itself against the UN? Thirdly, do you agree with the risk assessment made by the UN expert panel, namely that there is too little control over the final user and destination of these resources? Baart and didn't you worry about this? Fourthly, have the Belgian authorities been in contact with the Libyan authorities on the findings of this report? If so, what was the content of this contact and what are the conclusions? If no, are contacts with the Libyan authorities planned on the findings of this report? Fifth, did the Belgian authorities have any contact with the Libyan Investment Authority in 2017 and 2018? If so, what was the content of these contacts and what were the conclusions? Sixth, did representatives of the LIA contact the Belgian authorities in 2017 and 2018 regarding the frozen funds and associated revenues? If so, what was discussed? Who were the representatives of the LIA? Seventh, have you been in contact with Mr Ali Hassan Mahmoud, President of the LIA in Belgium in particular? If so, what was the content of this contact and what was the conclusion? Eighth, which other countries have allowed the release of the interest and proceeds of frozen Libyan assets since 16 September 2011? Ninth, can you give the reasons for the conclusions of the 2011 RELEX Group of the Council, which thus has a different view from that of the UN? Will the subject be on the agenda of the RELEX Group again? If so, when? Finally, which other EU Member States will you contact about this UN report?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u28	Mr Van der Maelen, I take note of the report of the UN Expert Panel established pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 1973 of 2011 in charge of monitoring the implementation of the UN sanctions regime in Libya. As you rightly point out, Libyan funds are also frozen in Belgium in the implementation of that sanction regime. The freezing of funds in implementation of sanctions is the responsibility of the Treasury, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. So it seems best to address your questions to the Minister for Finance. As you know, UN sanctions are being transposed into European regulations at European Union level, so that sanctions are immediately applicable in the internal European legal order. As regards the freezing of interest, Belgium has based itself on a European interpretation of Article 5.4 of Council Regulation 2016/44 which converts the UN provisions on interest on frozen funds into the internal EU legal order. According to that interpretation, interest obtained on funds frozen under the UN sanctions regime on Libya should not itself be frozen. This practice is in principle followed by all EU countries concerned. The interpretation of the UN Expert Panel differs from this. In its report, the panel states that, according to its reading, this interpretation does not correspond to paragraph 20 of UN Security Council Resolution 1970. The expert panel is aware of the ambiguity and ambiguity surrounding the exact interpretation of the UN sanctions regime in Libya, leaving room for different interpretations. The expert panel therefore proposes in its recommendations to the Sanctions Committee of the United Nations Security Council that it issue clear guidelines to maintain the interpretation of the panel. Belgium has worked in full transparency with the panel, as the report also shows. This is also the reason why Belgian practice was described by the panel. Belgium is regarded as a good pupil in this respect. Belgium welcomes the recommendations of the expert panel requesting the Sanctions Committee to clarify the interpretation of the sanction regime. Our country is in contact with the relevant European partners to speed up this process also at European level. As regards your question regarding contact with the Libyan authorities, I can confirm that neither my services nor I have been in contact with the Libyan authorities to discuss the report. Questions from the Libyan Embassy will be forwarded to the relevant department. It goes without saying that I cannot comment on contacts that other public services or colleagues may have had with representatives of LIA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u29	Mr President, I believe that on 19 September Mr Delannois and Mr Gilkinet questioned the Minister for Finance on this matter. The Minister of Finance pointed very carefully to the responsibility of the current Foreign Minister. When the funds were released in September or October 2011, it was under the responsibility of the then Minister of Finance, Didier Reynders. I note that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is returning the ball to the Minister of Finance. I'll question him tomorrow. I will then put together all the pieces of the puzzle and determine if I will ask any questions about this incorruptible file. Personally, I am very sorry that a panel of the UN has hit Belgium on account of the non-compliance with this sanction regime and this at a time when we were very close to membership of the UN Security Council from 1 January 2018. I'm sorry about this. So this dossier could get a follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u30	Questions Nos 26955 by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and 26965 by Mr Peter Luyckx are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I recently learned that the German government and the Canadian Prime Minister were concerned about the health of Piotr Verzilov, a member of the Pussy Riot. Piotr Verzilov – who had interrupted the World Cup final in Moscow by entering the field with three women members of Pussy Riot – is currently hospitalized in Berlin. It would seem, according to relatives, that he would have lost his sight, his word, and that he could no longer walk. He was said to have been the target of poisoning in Moscow. His wife believes that he was the victim of an assassination attempt. This situation illustrates once again that, in general, human rights defenders in Russia are faced with more than sensitive situations, including regular convictions. This is a magisterial violation of human rights and, in particular, freedom of expression. On 5 May 1998, however, Russia ratified the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Minister, have there been any new diplomatic contacts on the issue of the protection of human rights defenders between our country and Russia since these events?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u32	Mr President, Mr Blanchart, the human rights issue and the situation of human rights defenders in Russia remain a priority for Belgium. Support for Russian civil society is one of the five guiding principles of the European Union that govern relations with Russia and to which our country subscribes. During my last bilateral meeting with Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on 23 June, I had the opportunity to raise our concerns about the human rights situation in Russia and Crimea. I referred in particular to the arrest in Chechnya of Oyoub Titiev, the head of the office of the human rights NGO Memorial, who is charged with possession of drugs. I also pleaded for the release of Ukrainian political prisoners detained in Russia, Crimea or the separatist republics of Donbass. In this regard, I have stressed our deep concern about the state of health of Oleg Sentsov, the Ukrainian filmmaker opposed the annexation of Crimea and sentenced to 20 years of detention for terrorism. He's been on hunger strike since mid-May. The Council of Europe has an important role in the field of the rule of law and human rights. However, Russia's accession to this organisation has not prevented, since 2012, the Russian authorities from exercising increasing control over any form of criticism from Russian or international organisations, strengthening judicial, financial or other measures. The Venice Commission has regularly – but in vain – deemed these various measures to be disproportionate. In addition to this tightening of the area of freedom in Russia, it must also be noted that the links between Russia and the Council of Europe have dissipated. On the one hand, the Russian authorities are increasingly questioning the binding judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. On the other hand, on the financial side, Russia has suspended its contribution to the budget of the Council of Europe since 1 July 2017 in protest against the sanctions imposed on it by the Parliamentary Assembly in 2014 following the annexation of Crimea. Since then, the Russian parliamentary delegation has been deprived of its right of representation in the Assembly. This exclusion of Russian parliamentarians has systemic consequences, as it is the Parliamentary Assembly that elects the holders of the three key functions: the Commissioner for Human Rights (in January 2018), the judges of the European Court of Human Rights, but also the Secretary-General (in June 2019). The Russian delegation's non-participation in these elections is problematic, as it obviously feeds, in Moscow, the argument that the holders of these high offices and the Court's judgments lack legitimacy. I believe, moreover, that just before the summer, more than half of the judges had been elected without the participation of Russian parliamentarians, which in itself is a problem. I can tell you that on this point too, we are trying to work towards a development within the Council of Europe, not at all to question the criticism of the annexation of Crimea and the consequences that can be attached to it, but simply to try to ensure that the functioning of the Council is guaranteed. Our colleague, Mrs de Sutter, is working in the Parliamentary Assembly in the same direction. For the rest, we will continue to follow these different situations, including with our German or Canadian colleagues, as you also mentioned in one of the individual files.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u33	Minister, on 25 September, the United Nations Committee for the Protection of the Rights of the Child, which had before it a procedure under Additional Protocol No. 3 to the International Declaration of the Rights of the Child, wrote to the Belgian State to instruct it to put an end to the confinement in a closed centre of a family with minor children. It would appear, however, that this injunction was not enforced, as the services of the Office of Foreigners considered the Committee to be incompetent in the matter. I can only worry about the message Belgium thus sends to the international community regarding respect for the international texts to which it is a signatory, particularly at a time when our country occupies an important position in this structure essential to global multilateral diplomacy. My questions will therefore be as follows. Have you been aware of the committee's correspondence and have your services been informed? If so, can you provide Parliament with a copy of this letter? Have you been aware of the end of non-receiving opposed by the Office of Foreigners? As head of our diplomacy, how do you perceive this position? In particular, how do you envisage respect for the texts to which Belgium is a signatory, particularly with regard to respect for children's rights and human rights, to which you and the Prime Minister expressed your commitment in statements to the United Nations last week? How do you think the attitude of Mr Franken's services affects the credibility of Belgian speech on the international stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u34	Fernandez, Belgium is a signatory to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child and its Optional Protocols establishing a communication procedure, adopted in 2011. Belgium ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child on 16 December 1991 and the Optional Protocol to which I referred on 30 May 2014. This protocol regulates, among other things, the individual complaint procedure. Its objective is to strengthen national and regional mechanisms for the protection of the rights of the child by enabling children and adults acting on their behalf to file complaints with the United Nations Committee on the Protection of the Rights of the Child in the event of violations of their rights. This procedure is confidential and quasi-judicial. This means that after giving the State concerned the opportunity to respond to the complaint, the Committee may make recommendations, as the State then has an obligation to inform the Committee of its follow-up to those recommendations. The Committee may also, before taking any decision, submit to the urgent attention of the State party concerned, in accordance with the terms of the protocol, a request for interim measures. All terms are important. On 26 September, my services were formally informed of a complaint against Belgium and of a request by the Committee – dated 27th, I believe – to react within six months and to take interim measures. This information was immediately transmitted to the relevant departments, namely the Office of Foreigners and the Secretary of State Theo Francken. As I have told you, this correspondence between the Committee and the State in question is confidential in nature. The protocol explicitly obliges Belgium not to disclose the identity of the complainants. As regards the follow-up to this procedure, I can tell you that no formal reply has yet been sent to the Committee. I have communicated to you the time limits that we have to do so. In addition, I invite you to address my competent colleague. As you have asked me about a communication of the document, I will obviously have the relevant United Nations agencies questioned as to whether the communication can be transmitted. I would then not like to be questioned about a violation of the rights of those who have lodged a complaint.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u35	Minister, thank you and I hear all the precautions you are taking. We are each in our role, and you will understand it as well. I hear you're sending me back to Mr. Franken, who I didn't miss – you can imagine – to ask a question about it. On the other hand, and knowing you a little - I suppose you have shown diplomacy - you did not tell me what image of our country you thought was the confinement of children, against whom this committee reacted. I regret that, because I would have liked to hear from you, the country's first diplomat, on this subject. We can only agree with the statements made by the Prime Minister and yours last week regarding respect for human rights. We can salute them, but it is somewhat unfortunate that Belgium's image is once again tarnished by what we have been denouncing for weeks, namely the confinement of children.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u36	Mr President, Minister, in an open letter, thirty-six African experts say that our country must return the objects obtained in Africa during the colonial period, objects often acquired by theft or looting. The authors of the letter support the NGO "Representative Council of Black Associations" recently heard in several countries. For example, Germany has returned human remains to Namibia. The United Kingdom is considering making a collection of art objects. Shortly after his appointment, the French president, Emmanuel Macron, promised to return 5,000 items to Benin, which is still in preparation. Now that restitution is on the international agenda, Belgium cannot stay back, the authors of this open letter state. They chose the time for the reopening of the Royal Museum of Central Africa (MRAC) in Tervuren to put the issue on the agenda and demand that the Museum's collections be returned to the Congo. In response to the open letter, you said that the reopening of the MRAC is an important moment for African heritage while stressing that the renovated museum is about the exchange and participation of Africa. With regard to the exchange and participation of Africans, Ms. Ceuppens, an MRAC collaborator, told the VRT that no Congolese had been present at the conference on relations between Africa and Europe, recently organized by the Egmont Museum and Institute. It is known that visas to Congolese nationals are currently blocked in Belgium. But several Congolese opponents were able to obtain it since they were in Brussels in mid-September. The question then arises as to why this would not have been the case for potential participants at the above-mentioned conference. Minister, you say that it is important that Africans have access to this heritage and that physical return is one of the possibilities. What are the other possibilities? Under what criteria would the choice be made? Would the preference of the Congolese authorities prevail or that of the Belgian authorities? Are you ready to enter into a dialogue with the Congolese government on restitution? We know you don't always have a good relationship with him. What do you think of the position of Ludo De Witte, the author of the book The Murder of Lumumba, which proposes the establishment of a scientific committee to identify the numerous Congolese objects currently in possession of Belgium? A parliamentary commission of inquiry confirmed in 2001 that Belgium had a responsibility for the assassination of Lumumba. According to Ludo De Witte, Lumumba's teeth, owned by the police officer's daughter who cut his body, were seized by the prosecutor some time ago. They would be in a kind of deposit at the courthouse in Brussels. Can you confirm this information? Why are these remains not returned to the Congolese government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u37	Mrs. Pehlivan has been excused for illness.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u38	Mr President, Mr Van Hees, I would like to congratulate you on submitting your question in Dutch and having just translated it into French. So I have an answer in Dutch, because there were two questions put in Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u39	The Chamber has very good interpreters, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Sharing Past and Future Conference: Strengthening African-European Connections was organised between 17 and 19 September by the African Museum and the Egmont Institute.In my speech, I stressed that we have a common past with Central Africa that we must examine together. The opening of the museum is an important moment for the African heritage and I am glad that the African Museum is doing this in a positive way. Belgium plays a pioneering role in this, because I do not think that many other Western countries are debating delicate issues so freely and without taboos. My message was also that people who feel most closely involved in history and heritage, first and foremost Africans, should have access to this heritage. This can be done by contributing to African museums, such as the Dakar Museum or museums in Congo, but also through travelling exhibitions or audiovisual means. We can also reproduce archives. Look at what we're going to do with Rwanda now. Physical restitution is therefore certainly not excluded in specific cases, but the debate goes beyond that. Belgium is, of course, prepared to enter into dialogue on access to heritage with countries in the region. In Congo, the issue could be part of the discussions on our bilateral relations and cooperation after the elections scheduled for 23 December 2018. I also believe that it is possible to set up a federal working party or a scientific committee to investigate the issue of restitution further. I am certainly prepared to examine any proposal on the establishment, composition and operation of such a mechanism, but I suggest that you ask Mr Demir directly on this matter for her specific intentions. Finally, we have always taken the question of the murder of former Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba seriously. As in the past, Belgium remains available to the Congolese people for an open dialogue on our shared and complex history, in an atmosphere of transparency, which can lead to a better understanding of the facts and a relationship based on respect for the truth and the strong and lasting links between our countries. A judicial procedure has already been initiated today by the biological family of Mr Lumumba, the children and the offspring, in relation to the request for restitution of the possible remains of the body. Of course, the Congolese court can always apply for a rogatory letter through the normal procedure. It's a court case. I therefore call for any form of instrumentalisation to be avoided. As regards the participants in the Conference, I can inform you that the Egmont Institute and the African Museum were responsible for identifying and inviting stakeholders to the various round tables. A balance was maintained between African and European speakers. At Congolese level, the defendant was invited to the opening sessions and there was, among other things, the participation in the list of speakers of Mr Fred Bauma, member of the Congolese movement LUCHA. I regret that some Congolese people were unable to attend the Conference as a result of the closure by the Congolese Government of the Schengen House. I can assure you that our country will continue its efforts at the highest level to find a solution to the problem of the closure of the Schengen House as soon as possible. In the meantime, the issuing of visas to Congolese nationals is based on strict humanitarian and legal criteria established in consultation with our Schengen partners. Belgium has a lot of support for this from its Schengen partners. I hope that is also the case for you. Mr President, that concludes my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u41	Thank you for your answers, minister, even if they are not satisfactory. In relation to visas, for example, there is a double standard, according to the people concerned, as I explained in my question: the opponents received visas without any worries, whereas this has not been the case here. You say that we must oppose instrumentalization in the Lumumba case. I don't know what instrumentalization you're referring to, but here's again that the fault is on the other side... On the bottom of the restitution, you continue to be particularly vague in your answers. You open different tracks, but you've already done it, so there's no significant progress. You also do not comment on the proposal to make a listing of the various objects and works. I think that we know that colonization has led to criminal situations in some cases and that this policy has been accompanied by the taking over of a large part of the objects that are now, for example, at the Museum of Tervueren. If Belgium really acknowledged its serious responsibilities in relation to colonization, this would pose far fewer problems on the principle of returning all these objects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Luyckx's 27080 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u43	Minister, I recently had the opportunity to visit north-eastern Syria, the Rojava region as the Syrian Kurds call it. I met the local authorities there. They addressed the issue of Belgian detainees there, including women and children, detained in camps close to Qamichli. They would have at least six Belgian women and seven children there and believe that it is up to Belgium to repatriate them and take care of them. They would also like to see a comprehensive solution for those women and children. I myself was able to meet a woman and a child in one of these camps. I would like to take stock with you of this issue and see what the situation is today and your position on it. I have taken note of the response of the Minister of Justice in plenary session before parliamentary leave: the Belgian government was sticking to the repatriation of minors. This is not the view of the Rojava authorities. I wanted to take stock with you on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u44	Mr Dallemagne, thank you first of all for informing our services of the contacts you have during these trips. This should be reported to other colleagues who could act in the same way. In December 2017, to recall the position adopted by the government, Kern decided that children under the age of ten in Syria could return to Belgium. This decision was confirmed in February and July 2018 by the National Security Council. This means that all other cases would be dealt with on an individual basis. This does not mean that further returns would not be possible. These are mainly children in camps in the north-eastern region of Syria, who are in the hands of Syrian democratic forces and not the Syrian government. My services first turned to international organizations to obtain support for DNA identification of these children, often born in Syria and without a birth certificate. Their filiation is therefore not established. It has not been possible to implement this measure since there is no reliable partner in the field. In any case, so far, we have not found any. My services then came into contact with the provisional administration on the spot last July to propose a possible procedure for the repatriation of a child born in Belgium and identifiable on the basis of photos. Unfortunately, our interlocutors refused to accept a solution consisting of repatriating only children without adults. They insist on the global repatriation of all Belgians at the same time, including the FTFs, which is currently not possible if I refer to the decision taken at the National Security Council. My services have insisted that a compromise be accepted, but without success to date. I continue to believe that beyond the automatic repatriation of children under the age of 10, one could obviously examine the situation of one or both parents on a case-by-case basis, and in that case obtain repatriation if a whole series of people are not required to be repatriated. But so far we have not been able to make progress in this direction. For the rest, each European country acts autonomously, but the issue of returns has already been discussed in the Justice and Home Affairs Committee (JHA) and I myself raised with my French colleague, Mr Le Drian, the idea of organising at least a consultation between foreign departments to see whether there is also a way to work according to the same procedures or to use the same channels of access to organisations or local authorities, and the same mechanisms – as I have already mentioned in my reply – whether it is, as we mentioned at the level of the National Security Council, through DNA tests or, if this is not possible, by means of photo recognition. But I repeat, I am very much in favour of the idea that we can try to find formulas, if our partners on the spot so wish, for the repatriation of children with one or the parents, but then on the basis of an individual analysis in the cases of parents or minors over ten years of age, since this was the decision taken at the National Security Council. We will, of course, take stock of the progress of all these procedures in the National Security Council, and I will see with my colleagues in the interior or in the justice system whether we can try to find a formula that responds a little better to the concerns expressed on the ground and that you yourself have heard on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-02-54-commissie-ic972x.u45	Thank you, Minister. First, it is obviously natural that I can keep you informed of my contacts. On security issues like these, it seems essential to me! Having said that, I can understand both points of view. I can understand the Belgian Government, which is concerned about security issues, the impact on public opinion of the repatriation of six women and seven children. They also hold two Belgian jihadist men. But I also understand the view of the Rojava authorities that they are Belgian nationals who have come to their region, that they do not have the opportunity to judge them, that they do not have the information and, above all, that they do not have the means to take care of them indefinitely. The authorities also believe that while these detainees represent a threat, they should not be a threat to their region. I hear your desire for creativity, to find solutions. I also hear a desire to relax from what I have heard so far. Thus, you do not reject the idea of bringing back this woman and child on an individual basis, through complementary identification procedures. As far as I am concerned, I also suggested that we should not run counter to the principle that a solution should be found, at some point, for all these nationals, even if the implementation of this solution will have to be gradual. In any event, there must be a willingness to find a comprehensive solution for these nationals. Moreover, since there are many nationals of other nationalities, it would be interesting to organise more intensive consultations with the Member States. I have also reported on my mission to the European Counter-Terrorism Officer, Mr de Kerchove, who, I think, is looking for ways of resolving these issues. I make this point by being – I repeat again – well aware of security issues. But we need to know that there are children, in particular, today, in an extremely worrying humanitarian situation. In particular, I met a six-year-old Belgian child who was taken by her mother at the age of two and whose situation is extremely worrying. Minister, I invite you to take a step with the International Red Cross to ascertain to what extent it is possible to improve the humanitarian situation of these people since today no parcels can be sent, no transfer of money can be made to these children. The food they receive is extremely low because they only have access to peas and rice flour, which is of concern to children of this age.
