ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u1	Minister, the Brussels Air Museum, housed in the buildings of the Royal Museum of the Army and Military History at the Parc du Cinquantenaire, has an extraordinary collection dedicated to aviation and its history. There are many Belgian and foreign civil and military aircraft. This is the third collection in the world, the first of which is the Air Museum in Washington. Today, alumni from the Sabena, gathered in an ASBL, voluntarily assume the operation of this museum and accompany visitors. They put their whole heart into it. For decades, this museum has not been maintained! He's decrepit, old-fashioned, dusty. He's from another age! The explanatory panels are outdated, unmaintained and little didactic. Posters in English are written with spelling errors. The schedules are rigid. The times of the cafeteria do not coincide with those of the museum. An outdoor collection is left in a courtyard surrounded by weeds! The website has been out of date since 2007 – for more than ten years! Some pages are written only in English, others in French or Dutch. In the middle of this depressing decor is a box where visitors can make donations. Unfortunately, this is what visitors from all over the world can see! We really don't give them a nice picture of Belgium! Minister, are there any plans for this museum? Is there an agenda for reviving this abandoned gem? Is it planned that it will be taken over? How does the ASBL that handles the visits work? Is it subsidized?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u2	Mr Friart, the Brussels Air Museum never existed under this name. It is in fact the Air section, which is located in the large hall at the Park du Cinquantenaire, which is an integral part of the Royal Museum of Army and Military History, an integrated museum since May 1, 2017 within the World Heritage Institute (WHI). The aim of this integration carried out last year is to finally give a new impetus to this magnificent site. The collection in question is part of the federal state's heritage. The AELR Association is an independent WHI-based ASBL whose social aim is to support the WHI in the fields of the study, conservation and restoration of aviation heritage. Its operation and financing are provided by its own members, without the intervention of the WHI. The rights and duties of both parties, the WHI and the AELR, are specified in a convention. The WHI is currently conducting an in-depth reflection on the modernization of the Cinquantenaire Park Museum as well as on the presentation of collections. Given the scale of the task and the fact that the means are not unlimited for the various parties involved, the realization of the plans – in the process of gestation – will take place in successive phases. The large hall will be an integral part of this approach. I can confirm that we are not being made easy today. In fact, the Brussels Region considered it necessary to introduce procedures that make things more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will see how the situation evolves in the coming months and I will then question the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u4	Mr Yüksel, I just heard that Mrs Jadin is on her way. Are we gonna hold off on that question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u5	I'd like to wait a little longer, but I have one more question that's been linked. I expect my colleagues to be here on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u6	We will deal with Mr Dallemagne's question and then we will deal with the questions with Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u7	Madam President, Minister, as part of the F-16 replacement process, an ACCaP (Air Combat Capacity Program) specific cell has been set up to pilot this dossier, organize the RfGP (Request for Government Proposal), receive and evaluate the offers of the various candidates. According to the information available to me, the five members of this cell are from the Air Component of Defence. A representative of the SPF Economy would also be involved in the work of this team. Minister, do you confirm this information? Can you give me more details about the composition of this cell and its mandate? If it is true that all its members come from the Air Component, I can only question the choice of such a composition. I do not, of course, question the work and expertise of these soldiers, quite the contrary. But is it relevant, in a matter of such political and strategic importance, to limit our point of view? In my view, the choice of the successor of the F-16s is as much a technical and military matter as a political, economic and diplomatic one, particularly in the context of the development of Europe's defence and a European defence industry. Each of these elements must be taken into account and each of the tenders must be analysed from these different angles. Therefore, do you not think that it would have been essential to set up a truly multidisciplinary unit (Air Component, FPS Foreign Affairs, FPS Economy, representatives of the Regions, Prime Minister's Office, etc.)( )? That is my second question. Minister, when asked about the F-16 replacement process, on December 27, you said that the French offer of strategic and economic partnership around the Rafale was "too good to be true". In addition, you consider that offering, like what France proposes, more economic compensation to the Belgian industry than what would be provided for under the RfGP "is simply not correct" and that it is necessary to adhere to the established criteria. However, last fall, the government did not follow you and did not officially rule out the French offer. On the contrary, according to the French newspaper Les Échos, Belgium sent emissaries to negotiate with Paris, France working to define a complete offer that could convince the Belgian government. Minister, I wonder what you said on December 27th, which seems to me to indicate a lack of neutrality on your part with regard to the French offer. Is it very serious to hear a minister comment in this way on an offer made by one of our closest foreign partners, calling it "too beautiful to be true"? Do you consider that we cannot trust the commitments formulated by your French counterpart? I also find it rather shocking that the French offer would not be correct because it offers too much economic benefits to Belgium. I would therefore like to hear some clarification from you on this matter. More broadly, what is the official position of the Belgian government today, and therefore yours as the minister of this government, on the offer of a French partnership? Who are these "emissaries" that Belgium would have sent to Paris to discuss with the French? In the end, how many offers will Belgium take into account in order to replace the F-16: only two or three, including also the French Rafale, even if this offer is made outside the formal framework of the RfGP, which, I would remind you, does not pose a legal problem? How and according to what timetable will the bid analysis process and final decision-making take place? Is the RfGP schedule maintained? Will the definitive French offer be analysed at the same time as the other two, i.e. from February 14th?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u8	Madam Chair, Mr. Dallemagne, a five-person program cell, all from the Air Force, was put in place to complete the F-16 replacement program. With the exception of the secretary, the other members of this cell have already been presented to the members of the Defence Commission, among other things at the hearing on 24 February 2016 on the results of the prospecting. The tasks of this unit are those which are traditionally part of the execution of a public contract, such as prospecting, defining the need, drafting a specification. These are in fact the tasks assigned to the user of the system. At the present stage of the procedure, this unit conducts discussions with the candidates in order to obtain the best governmental proposals possible. In this context, the SPF Economy is also involved when these discussions concern measures to protect essential Belgian security interests, in accordance with the RfGP. What is important is that the evaluation of the best and final offers will be carried out not by this unit but by experts in their respective fields. These experts, a total of thirty-three, are grouped into seven evaluation teams. There is a team of experts for each of the award criteria defined in the RfGP. With regard to the allocation criteria related to the capacity and financial area, the experts are members of the Defence. On the other hand, the panel of experts in charge of the assessment of the award criterion for the protection of essential security interests is composed of members of the Defence and the FPS Economy (three out of five). The areas of expertise of these experts cover the entire RfGP. In the case of a public procurement, the evaluation of government proposals shall be carried out within the limits and in accordance with the terms and criteria of award set by the RfGP, approved by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2017. The result will be submitted to the Finance Inspector for advice. With regard to the French offer, the government's position has not changed since my response in committee on 20 December 2017. The government will make the necessary decisions in a timely manner. Since France has not submitted an offer in accordance with the procedure laid down in the RfGP, announcements concerning the economic part cannot be taken into account. As far as the procedure is concerned, I am not aware of any factors which could lead to delays. The next step, the best and final offer, remains scheduled for February 14, as originally planned. In conclusion, Mr. Dallemagne, you refer to Defence envoys who would have gone to Paris. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the motorized capacity file is being implemented. It is therefore normal for contacts to take place. But I assure you that the Defence has no contact because I have no different legal advice than those received in October.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u9	Minister, thank you for the additional information on the thirty-three experts who will evaluate the best and final offer. I hear that there are also representatives of the FPS Economy, which I welcome. I would have liked representatives to also consider the strategic and political aspects, as we are at a crossroads in building a European industry and defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u10	To assess what criteria?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u11	Criteria relating to key strategic interests. It seems interesting to me to be able to appreciate the extent to which this contract can contribute to the construction of a defence Europe. I do not see among the experts around the table who will be able to judge this criterion. I don't see him. I find that a pity. Such a contract gives us the opportunity to participate in a political ambition that is essential to the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u12	Mr. Dallemagne, the government will make a decision. What is more political than the government? I feel a mistrust on your part of the Defence. They know what they're doing. Everything's ready. The evaluation procedure is closed with the Finance Inspectorate. It'll be open later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u13	Minister, this is not a question of mistrust. It is a question of considering the fact that it will be difficult to depart from the views of those who are called to the negotiating table. At the end of the race, the Council of Ministers will take the decision, but you know very well how difficult it is to depart from it. Therefore, if the people who have to give their opinion do not take into account, from the outset, these issues of political strategies, then the situation will be less comfortable. It is not mistrust but simply the question of the exercise that is being carried out: are we simply buying planes or are we building a Europe of defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u14	It's about replacing an air combat capability.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u15	Minister, this is not done in isolation. You know that! This is done in relation to a political framework. Today, in relation to the threats we face, there are political threats. As a result, Europe's defence and external and internal security are political issues. That is my point of view, I maintain and affirm it. That's too bad. It is not an attack or mistrust, but a political position. Don't be too reactive at the beginning of the year, please! Admit that there is a healthy and constructive public debate on these issues. As regards the French offer, you say today that you cannot comment on it on the grounds that you rely on legal opinions. In this case, refrain from commenting! You think publicly that "it's too good to be true". I find this rather inappropriate, because no offer is "too good to be true" until it has been examined. I therefore consider that it should be seriously analysed or explained why it is rejected. I also note that some of your remarks differ from those of the Prime Minister, since yesterday the Prime Minister said that a legal analysis was still under way, while you are holding another speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u16	To be clear, I am not saying anything that is contrary to the Prime Minister's words. I simply stated that I had not received any opinion contradicting those I had previously obtained. That's why I'm continuing the procedure I started.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u17	Yes, but I can read between the lines: he does not rule out this offer, whereas you do not take it into account a priori. That is very clearly what you said. I repeat that there are no legal obstacles – and this seems obvious to me when reading the texts – to the consideration of this offer. It seems to me essential to consider it and not to lock itself in legal pseudo-reasons, in view of the importance of the file. I do not want to take for money the promises of the French, but I simply want to ensure that, in the context of this purchase operation, we take into account our military, political and strategic interests and therefore examine the French offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u18	Mr Dallemagne, I note with you that the French have chosen to communicate by means of the press instead of introducing a dossier into the procedure that we have launched. I would also point out that it was not France that referred to the economic impact in the media, but Dassault. In any case, RfGP or not, we only negotiate with state agencies. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u19	France also sent you a letter. I remember the pretty disparaging comments you made on that mail. I'm just saying there's no climate that should prevail. We can make accusations on both sides. France was probably clumsy in the way it addressed this issue. I think that in this area we must look at these issues on both sides with the seriousness they deserve, really. We must analyse the French offer as well as the others and not lock ourselves in arguments which in my opinion are not legally relevant. We need to check what our political and strategic interests are.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u20	Mr. Minister, it seems that Defence has a lot of problems recruiting technicians. Previously, it was possible to join the army at the age of 16 to receive training at the technical school in Saffranberg, and this was a real alternative for students who did not want to continue high school. Unfortunately, however, this offer no longer exists, among other things, for statutory reasons. Therefore, training for defence technicians is only offered for non-commissioned candidates, only if the candidate has a CESS degree. In civil life, however, it is possible to start learning after the first degree certificate. In view of the above, it is entirely logical that the number of candidates for technical training should be limited. Moreover, it is very difficult to convince the students of technical schools to join the army because for the most part they have already been recruited by the business world. Minister, do you have the figures for technicians who have been recruited since the end of 16 years of technical training in defence? Does Defence experience a decline in technical training? If so, would it not be possible to return to a model similar to alternance training as soon as the CESDD is obtained? I also have a lot of recipes for alternance training, which has been practiced for twenty years in the German-speaking community. Or are you considering other measures to reach again more interested in technical training? Without transition, I move on to my second question on the quality of military recruits. I have already had the opportunity to discuss this with you on a topical issue. We know that the Defence has been struggling for three years to recruit new soldiers. Vacancies do not regularly reach the number of applicants required to ensure quality recruitment. However, as Defence must meet its contingent, recruitment requirements would be reduced. This development is, in my view, very unreassuring if it really is. My questions are as follows, minister. What about the requirements that Defence candidates must meet? Have they really been downgraded in recent years? How many places have finally remained vacant for 2017? I hope you already have the numbers. Let me turn to my third question. Minister, we also know that Defence has, since the introduction of the BDL status - this is somewhat in line with my previous question - been struggling to recruit new soldiers. Among the main causes of this lack of enthusiasm for a career in Defence, the lack of attractiveness of this famous BDL status is most often cited. This limited-term status is accompanied by considerable uncertainty as to the longevity of the defence candidate's projected career, as well as the possibility of conversion at the end of the contract. It would even seem that the soldiers currently engaged in the army are not really the first promoters of their bodies. Often, I am told, they would not even recommend joining the army as the uncertainty about the career would have become significant. Again, Minister, how many Defence candidates did it count in 2017? This is very much in line with my previous question. And how many jobs were vacant? Do you plan to remove the uncertainties about BDL status? Finally, could in-house rotation be a solution to recruitment problems? We've already discussed it. What are your thoughts on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u21	Madam President, Minister, as regards recruitment, it was objective for 2017 to recruit 1 160 soldiers and 50 civilian staff. The strategic vision indicates that, in addition to the quantitative aspect, qualitative issues are also important, namely the completion of technical functions by recruiting mainly specialised officers and reducing deficits in combat units. I have three questions about that. First of all, was the proposed objective achieved in 2017? Secondly, how many recruitments were made for the technical functions? Were these filled out with specialized petty officers? If not, which profiles, including those of volunteers, were recruited for the technical functions? Can you give figures on the number of recruitments of specialised petty officers and other profiles? Thirdly, how many recruitments were written out for the combat units? Which profiles were recruited for this purpose? Can you give us some figures on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u22	Ms Jadin and Mr Yüksel, a total of 1,160 military positions were vacant for the 2017 recruitment year, and 4,372 people applied for at least one of the vacant positions. Quantitatively, all the posts to be filled have been covered. Qualitatively, Defence is experiencing, like other sectors, a decline in interest in technical functions. Specifically, 90 non-commissioned technical officers were recruited for 178 vacant posts, and 32 volunteer technical candidates were recruited for 62 vacant posts. As in total, full capacity has been achieved, this means that Defence has recruited more non-technicians than expected, for volunteers, on a time-limited basis. Of course, this cannot happen every year. Given the future strength of Defence and the need to focus on operations, a reversal, that is to say, the situation in which Defence covered school training in the Royal NCO School or Royal Cadet School, is not possible. That does not mean, however, that we remain with our arms crossed. Various activities are planned in the context of recruitment 2018 to attract more applicants for technical functions. For example, close collaboration with the ERSO began with the aim of inviting individual civilian technical schools to participate in a visit to the school in order to discover career opportunities, such as those of non-commissioned technical officers. In addition, the Defence Information Centres will give priority to technical schools for the organization of briefings and information sessions. In addition, technical functions will be further highlighted at education and occupation information fairs. Through close collaboration with FOREM and VDAB, Defence will communicate, during the job days, about technical positions via the respective websites. On March 25, 2018, Defence will organize an open campus day within the ERSO, during which special attention will be paid to technical functions. Finally, on 12 April 2018, a specific day job for all technical vacancies will be organised in Puisie in order to better inform the opportunities related to technical functions. With this in mind, Defence is planning a large-scale three-week advertising campaign. However, you should be aware that the limits on selection and admission to duties have not been levelled down. As regards the BDL Statute, a preliminary draft law amending the Statute is currently following the administrative and budgetary control procedure. The BDL member who has completed a number of years will be able, at his or her request, to benefit from a personal reorientation or retraining programme, which is not currently the case. Throughout the commitment period, the BDL member is informed of the number of places open as part of a transition to career status for both the same category of personnel and in the context of social promotion, i.e. the higher category of personnel. Every year, the number of places for social promotion increases, as you know. There are 50 recruitments planned for civilian staff, 6 of which are for the War Heritage Institute. Three of them have already been filled in. The recruitment procedure for the 3 other posts at the War Heritage Institute, of which 1 technical function, is ongoing. Of the remaining 44 planned recruitments, 32 were completed, of which 14 were technical. Seven laureates are known, but still have to enlist. There is 1 technical function. The last five procedures are still in progress at Selor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u23	Minister, recruitment went relatively well in 2017. We can look forward to it for the future of our army. I also hear that the quality of recruitment is not downgraded. I understand that Defence is making significant efforts to recruit and train technicians and search for graduates of the ESSC. In the same way, much better communication on the existing opportunities and opportunities offered by this BDL status would be needed in the future. Many misconceptions, uncertainties could be stopped with better communication, so that there is, I hope, a little more enthusiasm for the soldier's career in our army, even if it is partial.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for the figures. As in other sectors, I believe that there is a problem with recruitment for specialised and technical positions. I am pleased that you will be taking initiatives on this subject this year. It cannot be the intention to make concessions on quality criteria. It is good that you want to make additional efforts in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u25	Minister, in addition to the traditional military recruits, Defence also has a large number of reservists. Some even have the possibility of providing more than the seven annual days necessary to keep them in the active reserve and, for this reason, constitute real and concrete help for their active colleagues. It is my responsibility, however, that the tasks of the Reservists are quite limited. For example, in some services, it would be interesting to be able to make permanent those with the right qualifications, by equipping them with a service telephone so that they can be recalled in less than four hours. If this option were offered, this would result in a significant reduction in the pressure on active personnel, while maintaining a high-quality service in services lacking active personnel. Minister, how many reservists does Defence currently count? What is the number of reservists recruited in 2017? What about task management? Is its extension possible, as I have just suggested?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u26	Minister, the Defence Staff is considering remobilization of the reserve. The aim will be to provide additional support for missions both in Belgium and abroad. This additional capacity will be one-off during periods of sustained operational commitment. According to your figures, Minister, this reserve currently has 5,265 people, but only 1,171 of them belong to the so-called trained reserve and not all are directly engaged in operation. As part of this effort, the Earth Component is setting up a reserve of 600 troops, five companies, to provide ad hoc reinforcements to ensure internal security. The Marine Component also plans to increase its reserve from 113 to 500 men in 2030. Finally, the Medical Component is looking for highly specialized reservists to send them on a humanitarian mission. However, the financial status and regulation of these staff members will have to be adapted. Minister, what will be the budgetary impact of this increase in the reserve? How are you going to make engagement as a reservist more attractive when Defence appears to be suffering from a lack of attractiveness? How are you going to make your reserve more operational to meet needs? On December 6, you informed us that the Defence Staff was developing the legal framework to allow the reserve to be engaged. Where are we at at this level? Finally, what major changes will be made to the current status of the reserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u27	Minister, in a recent answer to a written question, you gave an overview of the situation of the reserve and also of the future prospects. Defence currently has 5 265 reserve troops. 1 171 of them are trained reserveists. In 2030, Defense aims to have 6 000 reserve soldiers in a number of categories such as specialists, support and also an operational reserve of five companies for the army, around 600 strong. Different formulas to strengthen the reserve were tried out in the past, think of the voluntary military service, created by your predecessor Pieter De Crem, but none of them were very successful. This is probably also due to poor status and insufficient support from society, in particular from public and private employers. A working group has now been set up to deal with the problem and to propose new concepts, legislative texts and changes to the rules. Firstly, when can the committee be briefed on the results of that working group? Will concrete steps be taken before the end of the legislature? How are employers and possibly trade unions involved in the study? How can the government, as a public employer, possibly help to make a service as a reserve military attractive? Secondly, one in four of the current reserve soldiers is now trained. Is that an affair being held? Is the focus mainly on the untrained reserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u28	Colleagues, Defence had 5,296 reserve members in 2017, of whom 1,160 were on the trained reserve. In 2017, Defence recruited 6 officers and 5 non-commissioned officers through the external recruitment process, as well as 968 officers, 28 non-commissioned officers and 6 volunteers through the internal recruitment of retired military personnel. The ratio between trained and untrained reserve will steadily evolve to 1 in 2. The focus today is not at all on the untrained reserve, neither in the past, nor today, nor in the future. This is because they are compatriots with military obligations which still result from the military service or from their dismissal as active military. The increase in the reserve will be phased in and will be the subject of a multi-year recruitment process. In addition, the Defence Staff is currently examining the extent to which the tasks assigned to the reserve can be expanded. One aspect of this study is the expansion of tasks related to operational implementation and assistance to the Nation. Defence wants to make engagement as a reservist more attractive by offering more variation in the type of duties that can be performed by the reserve member. Making the status of the reserve soldiers attractive is still being studied by the Defence Staff and, I feel, is going to be very slow. A working group is currently examining different options, based on the deployment and division of reserve soldiers in the subgroups, which members have probably been able to hear from the media over the past week. The ratio between subgroups is also included in the study, including the untrained reserve. In developing the employee support section, there is not only the reserve military itself but also its employer, a partial concept that aims to create goodwill among employers and sectors with a target audience to recruit reserve soldiers or to make punctual interventions, such as a cyber reserve force, the employers will be closely involved. The employee support concept requires resources to compensate for the absence of employees, financial compensation and/or compensation. Colleagues, since this is being studied, it is too early for me to make statements. However, I have ideas about this. I believe that the reserve for our defence in different positions can be an absolute added value. Meanwhile, the spirits at Defense have also matured and the added value of the reserve is also recognised. That is why here and there a general has already discussed the possibilities through the media. However, this is still very premature. However, I believe that I would like to take very concrete steps in this area during the present legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u29	Minister, I fully share your view on the opportunity that our reservists can represent. On the other hand, I consider the reflection on the enlargement of tasks to be positive. Finally, I take note of the fact that you wish to find a solution during this Parliament regarding the new tasks that could be given to reservists.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answers. I can only encourage you to continue thinking about how to make engagement as a reservist more attractive. Furthermore, I have no doubt that the decision taken earlier to hold hearings on good reserve practices in neighbouring countries, particularly in France, will help to guide our reflections in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u31	Like the other speakers, I think it is very positive that we too, as in a number of neighbouring countries, are now taking steps to increase the reserve framework. I will regularly ask for a state of affairs so that everyone who works on it remains motivated. In this context, I also think it is a good thing that we should organise a hearing in order to continue putting the theme of the reserveists on the map.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u32	We'll suspend for a few minutes, but all the questions will be finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u33	Minister, while Operation Sentinel was a great success among the French population following the terrorist attacks, its Belgian counterpart, Vigilant Guardian, unfortunately did not have the same effects. According to my information, the number of people interested in joining the Defence would have increased slightly just after the terrible attacks of 2016. But last year, the number of candidates would have dropped. You have already answered me through other questions and I assume that you will reiterate the figures, now available, set out above. Indeed, those who are potentially interested in the defence would now opt for the police rather than the army. An example of the current situation is the fact that a policeman involved in Operation Vigilant Guardian takes up his hours of work and returns home to his family; however, the soldier often takes more hours than expected and has to stay for the whole week in the vicinity of his mission. The presence of the military in our streets has undoubtedly had a security effect among the population. However, both the military and those who wish to become military prefer basic missions and even manoeuvres abroad. Is it possible to reduce the number of military personnel participating in the OVG so that the military can return to different military missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u34	Minister, this week several newspapers reported a possible drop in terrorist level 3 to level 2. That decision is, of course, in the hands of the OCAD, which makes independent threat analyses. Since level 3 soldiers were posted on the street in the context of Operation Vigilant Guardian, I would have liked to ask you the following questions, Minister. A possible reduction in the threat level does not imply that all soldiers will disappear from the street, I read. What development do you see for the coming time? What development do you see when you adjust the threat level to level 2? Where will military forces also be placed under this threat level? What has been the cost of Operation Vigilant Guardian from the beginning to today? How many soldiers have been deployed since the beginning of Operation Vigilant Guardian?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that Operation Vigilant Guardian requires a special effort from the armed forces. Since last autumn, a new scheme has been developed on the basis of experience gained since the beginning of this commitment. The new system has been gradually introduced. This more dynamic approach has reduced the number of deployed military personnel. The released staff are able to spend more time with their family. This new arrangement also allows units to train more in the performance of other missions. In order for the threat level to be adjusted, the decision indeed lies with the OCAD, Mr Yüksel. It is difficult for me to anticipate this. The fact is that Defense does not decide on the places and possibilities of development. This is done at the request of the services, along with the Crisis Centre. As regards the cost and the number of military personnel deployed per year, I can give you the following figures. For 2015 it was 18 296 000 euros and an average of 540 soldiers per day, for 2016 it was 64 477 000 euros and an average of 1 020 soldiers per day, for 2017 it was 56 606 000 euros and an average of 940 soldiers per day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u36	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. We will wait and see what the OCAD will decide on how to adjust the threat level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u37	Minister, last week it was reported that the maritime NH90s have problems with radar. Constructionr NH Industries delivered four of these so-called Grey Caymans to our country in 2015 after the order was placed in 2007. Gradually, those NH90s would replace the Sea Kings for marine rescue operations. It is foreseen that the Sea Kings will remain out of the sky by 2019. In addition, the NH90s also need to replace the Alouette III helicopters on our frigates. At present, three of the four NH90 devices are no longer used and from next week onwards, the fourth will also remain on the ground for a long period of time. The repairs would take a year and a half, much longer than planned. Mr Minister, could you explain the failure of the maritime version of the NH90s? What is the cause of the problem? The NH90s are also in use in other countries, including the Netherlands, Germany, France, Sweden and Finland. Do you have any knowledge of similar problems in those countries? What is the result of the timing of pulling out the Sea Kings by 2019, as envisaged? What impact does this have on the over-the-sea rescue operations? The maritime NH90s will also be used to replace the Alouette III helicopters on board the frigates. Will the Alouette appliances therefore also have to be used longer? Are additional measures necessary for this purpose? What financial implications does this have, both for maintenance and repair works and for the longer deployment of the Sea Kings and Alouette machines? Will NH Industries proceed to the payment of fees? I heard that there are serious fees in the agreement. How many are those fees and cover the costs of keeping the Grey Caymans on the ground? The order of the NH90 devices was placed under the Verhofstadt II government in 2007. Would you have made the purchase of the NH90 devices with the current knowledge?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u38	Mr Minister, exactly a year ago, here, I was asking you about the problems of excessive corrosion experienced by the French and Dutch NH90s and the impact these problems could have on Belgian helicopters of the same type, of which Belgium will one day be fully equipped. On 15 January, the press reported on technical problems in the operation of the radar of three of the four NH90s called "Caiman" to replace the last three Sea Kings in 2019. They would not have a high-performance radar as promised at the time of the procurement. Major General Frederik Vansina told the various media: "Already on delivery, there was something wrong." Minister, how many hours have our NH90s flown in total? A year ago, you were talking about 600 hours of flight time, which did not allow you to have enough flying hours to determine if there were any problems. Where are we now? A year after the observations made in France and the Netherlands, are Belgian NH90s destined to fly over the sea also experiencing problems of excessive corrosion now that you have enough flying hours to be able to determine it? Third, initially planned for a period of three to six months, however, the update of the current radar could take longer. How long does Defence estimate the unavailability of its three helicopters currently under repair? In January 2017, you announced the creation of a common stock of spare parts between the Belgian and Dutch Defences for this helicopter. This stock has been in effect since November 2014, you told me. Is it possible to replace radars or improve them in the short term by using this common stock? Fifthly, have the Defence demanded financial compensation for these various technical problems involving aircraft which, let us recall, cost EUR 35 million apiece? Finally, have contacts been made with the other 12 countries that also purchased these NH90s to introduce a common complaint file concerning all of these technical problems, including the issue of defective radars?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u39	Madam President, Minister, the new NH90 helicopters are apparently all four on the ground. There's a problem with the radar of the helicopters. According to the reports, updating the system could drag on for a year and a half. The Netherlands and Germany, who purchased 20 and 35 of these helicopters respectively, would also face the same problems. I'd like to get an answer to the following questions. Firstly, what problems of training and employability and operationality do you foresee? Secondly, what possible solutions are there? Have any agreements been made with neighbouring countries? Finally, what financial consequences could this have?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u40	Minister, the new Defence NH90 helicopters must take over from the Sea Kings, particularly with respect to offshore rescue operations. At the beginning of the year, we learn that these could remain nailed to the ground - I hope at least that it is not at sea! - because of a radar problem. In 2019, former aircraft will retire after more than 40 years of service. My question is, therefore, the following. Is there a risk that the unavailability of both types of aircraft will telescope and that there will be no helicopter available, or that there will be an insufficient number of aircraft? In that case, it may be necessary to rent some. If so, how long could this last and what solutions can be envisaged to deal with this problem? In this weekend's television report, it is even mentioned that there are delays of one to one and a half years, given the traffic jamming of the devices that are seeking repair for this problem. The armed forces of the other countries we mentioned earlier, it seems, face the same kind of problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u41	Madam President, first of all, let me set the record straight. Belgium bought a total of 8 NH90s, namely 4 TTHs (Tactical Transport Helicopter) and 4 NFHs (NATO Frigate Helicopter). So it is a fregathelicopter that we will also use for search and rescue over the sea. Let me put this very clearly, because there is often talk here about replacing the Sea Kings, but they are actually doing more than the Sea Kings. The Belgian final contract configuration of the NH90 NFH is referred to as a final radar configuration. The full development and certification of this configuration was completed in 2017. Our NFHs were delivered between 2013 and 2015. That's why we knew these would have to go back to the factory to add what was ordered. So this was a conscience. As Belgian NFH helicopters were delivered between 2013 and 2015, certain features that are part of the final configuration closed in 2017 were missing and still lacking. This is why NH90 version NFH has been returned to the industry to implement these features. This work is called retrofit. All nations that have had NFH delivered during the same period as we face the same problem or challenge. This challenge is specific to NFHs. The troop transport version, the TTH that will be sent to Mali, does not know this problem. During the upgrading of the equipment, as planned, Belgium decided to have the scheduled large maintenance service run simultaneously after 600 hours of service. The combination of both elements reduces the overall period of unavailability. Three of these four aircraft are being refitted. It is therefore not a matter of corrective maintenance. The first is expected to be available again in March, the second in the fall and the third in early 2019. The fourth aircraft is currently undergoing an inspection programmed after 300 hours of flight and conducted by the unit itself. It will be operational again by mid-February. The marine rescue operations will remain insured in 2018 at any time as Defense has the Sea King. As mentioned earlier, two devices will end their retrofit and major maintenance in 2018. So there will always be enough devices available. This means that the Sea King's outfitting can be retained at the beginning of 2019. You should know that we extended the use of the Sea King last year because we knew that this problem would arise. In the extreme, therefore, if we cannot do it ourselves, it is still possible to request punctual support from our neighbouring countries for rescue operations at sea, just as we are giving punctual support to other countries today. The end of life of the Alouette fleet is scheduled for 2021. At that time, the NFH will be able to provide the same level of service to the national navy. There is therefore no question of prolonging the life of the Alouettes. Given that the planned entry into service of the Sea King and the Alouette will remain as planned, no additional costs will be generated. As regards the NH90, there are no costs associated with the retrofitting activities as they are inherent in the fact that the industry could not deliver the final configuration in time. It is important to mention once again that the retrofit problem only refers to the NFH, but not to the TTH. The missing functionalities that required the retrofit of the NFH are not provided in the TTH variant. There is therefore no impact on the deployment of the two TTH devices from February 2018 for the MINUSMA operation in Mali. Defence points out that, despite the unavailability of the retrofit and planned maintenance activities, the NH90 NFH remains a highly effective aircraft that perfectly meets the range of missions it has been assigned. The Defence therefore remains convinced of the choices made in the past. So far more than 2 000 hours have been flown on the four NFH devices, which is good in terms of availability compared to other countries that also fly the NFH. The Belgian NFHs have had less corrosion problems than those in the other countries, Mr Hellings, and additional preventive measures will make it possible to protect them even better. I can tell you very specifically that our problem of corrosion is about the screws that need to be treated when they are loosened and fixed, but we do not have the structural corrosion problems that, for example, the Netherlands had. This to make it clear that sometimes a mosquito is made of an elephant. International collaboration with other NH90 countries, more specifically with the Netherlands, allows for the provision of spare parts. This has resulted in operational radar over the past few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u42	Minister, from your reply, I conclude that a first aircraft can be operational within two months. The most important thing is that the rescue operations at sea are assured. You say that this was planned and that you organised it to keep the Sea Kings in service for longer, but this is an operational problem that has arisen. I am pleased that the consequences are very limited for the rescue operations and for our frigates. At another time, perhaps we should agree on this project, which was the result of European defence. We need to check whether industry in particular is ready for this at the moment. However, that is another discussion that needs to be held at a different time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u43	I'd like to introduce some nuance. I mentioned that the NH90 is a top-of-the-line device. I've always said that. It's a new plane. The project has been much delayed, as has the A400M, because industry is starting a new project, but also because it wants us to be one but also diverse in Europe. This resulted in 22 versions of the NH90. (...): 23 versions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u44	Let us not pay attention to one version more or less. The Air Component Commander mentioned 22 versions of the NH90 last week. It seems obvious to me that starting with a new device with 22 versions of which it is much more difficult to remove childhood diseases and complete the full development. If, for example, a door has to be enlarged at the end of the ride, it has implications for pipes running there and so on. In this respect, I fully agree with you that, if we want to do this kind of thing within Europe, we must, firstly, take into account realistic deadlines and, secondly, dare to impose limits on our diversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u45	Minister, I think we share this analysis. We are in favour of European defence, but this example shows that we must concentrate and harmonise needs and desires. From then on, we will be able to shape European defence. It is good that this case is there to learn the necessary lessons from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u46	Minister, I am reassured to hear that the rescue service at sea is guaranteed and that Defence is doing its utmost to ensure that, despite the technical problems encountered, our old Sea King can take on this task. In addition, there are other possibilities in the hypothesis that NH90s are more unavailability. For many European countries that have made this choice, it is a problematic market and it seems difficult from the beginning. I'm not saying it's the disaster, but the problems are building up. There are corrosion problems in the Netherlands, sand problems in France and we are now learning about this problem at radar level, even though this radar was clearly not promised completely functional by the market at the outset. I hear that there are fewer corrosion problems in the case of Belgian NH90s than in those found in the Netherlands, but there are still problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u47	It's screws that are a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u48	That's right! So, there's still some, which could be a problem for the future. Retrofit causes a period of unavailability. I hear you're not considering asking for compensation. It seems to me that when you supply a device, it is so that you can dispose of it and benefit from it. As is clearly the case for many other European defences, it seems to me appropriate to consider seeking compensation for this unavailability, even if it was foreseen, in part, since radar was provided incompletely. To ask for compensation or facilities at European level, i.e. with the twelve other European partners of the programme, seems to me a good idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u49	Mr. Hellings, compensation is not required because it has already been claimed and paid at the time of acceptance of the products that were not finished. At the time of receipt of the helicopters, we made a transaction in which we chose to accept the helicopters with the non-final version of the radar for an allowance of 5%. That's the maximum we could demand. That is why, today, there is no longer any recourse to means other than the arrangements made at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u50	It's an interesting piece of information. There was compensation at the time of delivery. Let us be very careful to foresee, in future contracts, possibilities of compensation if problems of unavailability as we know here reappear. That seems important to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u51	Mr Minister, my reply is in line with the previous speaker. I am, of course, pleased that the rescue operations are guaranteed, that the matter is being properly monitored and that, in your view, this is not a problem. I would like to make the link with what my colleague has just said in relation to the 5% compensation. You said that there was already compensation at the time of reception because the delivery did not meet the requirements, including with regard to the radar system. However, this raises a question where, of course, you do not have to respond immediately to the question of the longer deployment of the Sea Kings to ensure the rescue operations. After all, that has caused an extra cost and the question is whether this 5% is sufficient to compensate for this cost. As you said, the lesson can be learned from this in order to take this into account in a subsequent procurement procedure, so that we do not fall into the same trap again. The different versions of devices, that's one point, but a timely delivery with the right content and a device that is completely up-to-date, that's another point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u52	As for your consideration of the cost of continuing with the Sea King or opting for another plane, I can say the following. The price of a Sea King is one third or one quarter of an NFH from my head. So it's cheaper to go on with it. In that case, the financial balance does not count. I can assure you that we have learned a great deal from this procedure. For example, we have decided that we will not accept aircraft below specs from the A400M. That is what we intend to do. We cannot reverse the past, but that is the lesson that Defence has learned from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u53	Minister, I thank you very much for your answer and for all the compliments you have given us. I draw the conclusion of an absence of a floating period – that is the case! – between the two categories of helicopters. That's good news about rescue operations. Then I was struck by your mention of the more than twenty versions in circulation. In my view, if European defence is to be desired, it is important to develop training common to all military personnel. Otherwise, everyone will confine themselves to their own national history. Indeed, one always reacts according to how one was formed. Therefore, progress towards European defence will have to be accompanied by an increasingly common training of all military personnel. I'm thinking in particular of the officers. In addition, your comment on the use of the Sea Kings and the new helicopters is somewhat appealing to me. I would almost tend to extend my question by asking you if, in this case, it is not possible to resort in part – I am not saying completely – to the Sea Kings. Above all, what fate will be reserved for them when they have been "decommissioned" by the Belgian army?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u54	Mr Flahaux, I do not know in which language military personnel should be trained in common. That is why, with regard to the motorized capacity of the Earth Component, we have chosen to enter this system which includes doctrines, training, training, etc. And it's not easy!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u55	Yes, I can imagine it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u56	It's really not easy, but I think we can do it. Otherwise, no projects will be implemented. For the Sea King prize, I started to answer by saying that NFH meant NATO Frigate Helicopter. As a result, this device is too technological to deal only with search and rescue. However, it is used. At the time, his purchase was defended on the grounds that he would replace the Sea King. There are other possibilities, but they are not being considered today. I do not think it is appropriate to extend the lives of the Sea Kings; they are already forty years old. One of them is already at the museum! When a defense device arrives at the end of its life, it is put on the market. For example, last year we bought an old Sea King from the British to pick up the coins.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u57	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u58	Madam President, Minister, at a European Summit in Brussels on 14 December 2017, the European Council welcomed permanent structural cooperation in the field of security and defence policy. 25 countries or Member States of the European Union participate in this. You, too, signed the policy as one of the first Member States. I would like to have an answer to the following questions. Firstly, can you provide an overview of the PESCO projects in which Belgium is involved? Can you give a brief explanation of these projects? Secondly, for which projects is Belgium in charge? Which projects are Belgium's participants or observers? Thirdly, what is the state of play throughout the PESCO dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u59	Madam President, Mr Top, PESCO was officially launched on 11 December 2017 at the time when the Foreign Ministers made the actual signing at the meeting. Today there are 25 participants. You are aware of those who do not participate, particularly Malta, the United Kingdom and Denmark. There are a total of five clusters. We will participate effectively in five projects, namely: European Security Software Determined Radio (ESSOR) and the Network of Logistic Hubs in Europe and Support to Operations. We will also participate in Military Mobility and the European Union Training Mission Competence Centre (EUTMCC). We will also participate in the Energy Operational Function. There are five projects in which we will be observers, which is a slightly different statute. These are the European Medical Command (EMC), the Harbour and Maritime Surveillance and Protection (HARMSPRO), the Cyber Threats and Incidents Response Information Sharing Platform, the Cyber Rapid Response Team (CRRT), the Mutual Assistance in Cyber Security and, finally, the EUFOR Crisis Response Operation Core (EUFOR CROC). These projects are now all being launched and are actually taking a fairly high flight because the countries will have to indicate very quickly how they will deliver on their effective commitments. I may also have to point out that we will be lead nation in the Maritime Autonomous Systems for Mine Counter Measures project. I have already said at a previous committee meeting that this project already has a number of participants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u60	Thank you very much, Minister, for this explanation. This was decided not so long ago. I have one more question. In a project we seem to be an observer, namely on maritime surveillance and port surveillance. Is there any reason why we're just an observer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u61	Mr Top, I am in favour of the concept of PESCO, but we must always be careful and see what we all replace. We must adapt our ambitions to what we can do. The Navy has about 1 600 employees today. A certain growth is expected, but that will not be of the kind that the number of senior officers is ahead of us to make them contribute to international bodies everywhere. We have a specific knowledge of these robots. We have taken the lead in this respect. We would like to participate in the other projects. In the strategic vision there is also attention to shallow water protection, called the harbour protection. However, the question is whether we should take the technological lead in this. Today we do not have that knowledge in our house. The contribution to a group in which one participates is, of course, of a different level than that of a group in which one perceives. Observer actually means that we want to follow up on the things that happen there. We'll designate someone who'll follow up and report on it. At a time when we find this interesting enough, we can still decide to become a full member.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u62	Mr Minister, on 12 January the Council of Ministers approved the launch of a public contract for a service contract for air transport capacity of the type corporate. In concrete terms, it means that the Defense will open the door to disband the white fleet. Through the government contract, Defense will try to conclude a contract of eight years, with the possibility of an extension of four years. The current fleet will therefore be sold. In my opinion, the white fleet is not one of the core tasks of the defence industry, and so the sale of that fleet is a correct decision. What timing will you maintain for the conclusion of the service contract and for the sale of the appliances? How will the sale of the equipment take place in concrete terms? Are there any candidate buyers yet? What revenue is expected? Defence commissioned a study to show that this type of air transport can be completed by a service contract with at least equal availability and at a lower price. Can the members of the committee be sent that study? What savings does this study expect to achieve?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u63	Mr President, last Friday the Council of Ministers gave its approval to the launch of a public contract. On the basis of a few specific questions, I would have liked some more information on this. What are the broad lines of the approved project? What is the size of the need for corporate flights for the future? Can you explain how the project will be financed and what will happen to the old corporate aircraft? What is the tender procedure chosen? What are the estimated annual costs? On which budget will they possibly be recovered? Are there possible payback effects due to services to third parties? What are the next steps in the procedure? What are your deadlines?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u64	(...) There are reasons why we are initiating this procedure. One is that both the Falcon 900 and the four MR devices will come at a time when a high level of maintenance will be necessary to allow them to operate longer. Based on the positive experience of the Airbus leasing, I believe that perhaps we should avoid high maintenance costs, because it concerns old aircraft, and that now is the ideal time to look at a service contract that allows the same service to be maintained. I am talking about the same level of service, but in fact it is a better service, because we have done the need analysis and, for example, we need long-range devices much more than what we have at our disposal today. I have therefore proposed to the Council of Ministers a service contract for the provision of up to 2 500 flight hours per year. This concerns both the need of Defence itself in terms of, among other things, troop transport and corporate in proportion to 2 000 hours, as well as the need of third parties, i.e. non-military users, such as the Royal House, the Government, the NATO Secretary-General and the EATC, for which we make flight hours available. The project runs over 12 years and is divided as follows. There is a four-year transition whereby the current fleet is phased out of circulation and sold and replaced by a capacity of flight hours made available by a service. Mind you, the flight hours provided will be with their own pilots. In the next four-year period, the contractor will deliver up to 2 500 hours per year, optionally and on the basis of the results an additional four-year extension of the contract. On the basis of current planning, a service contract is foreseen to be concluded through a negotiated procedure with publication by the last quarter of 2018. The sale of the current fleet will take place through a public procedure, as usual. Several candidate buyers may be expected for these types of aircraft, but there are no concrete candidates yet. The total revenue of the five aircraft is estimated at around EUR 5 million, depending on market demand and supply at the time of sale. The challenge is that Defence does not have a fixed flight pattern and can therefore only conclude a service contract that needs to respond flexibly to changing needs according to the operating theatres and levels of ambition. This makes one less bound to one's own fixed fleet of aircraft. So we actually fly up the current aircraft as much as possible, as it is called, and then gradually move on to a service contract, which offers the most financially advantageous solution. If we take into account all costs, including depreciation and, above all, personnel costs, it would ultimately cost less, provided that a service contract would allow greater flexibility, because other equipment could also be made available than those currently on the tarmac, and that the outsourcing of maintenance activities would drastically reduce the number of technical staff. An exact calculation can of course only be given when we have actually received tenders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I do have a thought. You just gave the example of the leasing of an Airbus. I make the link with the Commission's visit to EATC, in which flights from several countries are coordinated and shared. Is that part of the story? Could it be part of that, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u66	The A321 is also made available via EATC and can be booked via EATC. The experience with maintenance, among other things, is positive, even though we overestimated the use at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u67	We have to contribute too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u68	We've done a need analysis. We find that we only have a longrange device for 12 passengers, while the need is much higher. If the Embraer is flying to Mali, it has to make a stop, which is not efficient. We will therefore try to improve the provision of services more in line with existing needs. Of course, we will continue to offer overcapacity under the EATC. The A321 is a leased device, but it's like it's ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u69	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u70	I have no further questions. I thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u71	Minister, in mid-September 2017, you recorded in the media that Defense would build a new headquarters in Evere, because the current building is outdated and does not conform to standards of sustainability and ecology. The press then wrote that the new building would not be financed by the EUR 9.4 billion approved by the government in the strategic plan. A possible other slope, according to your cabinet, was a trade agreement with land owned by a private partner. Minister, the Council of Ministers of 12 January last approved the construction of the new headquarters. That's why I have the following questions. What investment is foreseen? Is construction financed by own resources or by an alternative method? I would like to clarify the origin of the funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u72	Mr Minister, a very large site, unsustainable and outdated buildings, NATO buildings released, a slimming of the military leadership, a very favourable location, which undoubtedly played a part in last Friday's decision by the Council of Ministers, which approved a procedure for the construction of a new headquarters for defence in Evere. The new headquarters will be smaller than the present. After all, the strategic vision of Defence also provides for a reduction of the general rods. The new building will be on the current site of Queen Elisabeth and the NATO building. Minister, what are the broad lines of the approved project? What is the extent of the need for staff infrastructure for the future? Can you explain how the project will be financed? Is there a budget? What happens to the old sites Evere and NATO? Which procurement procedure will be chosen? What are the next steps in the procedure? What period is foreseen for the realisation of the project?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the investment envisaged essentially involves the construction of an office complex with about three thousand workspaces for the housing of the defence staff. For the sake of military specificity, special operational and security requirements are integrated into the project, which seems obvious to me. The necessary investment budget is being worked out in detail today. What we have approved are the next steps in the procedure. Basically, we choose a new building, a smaller footprint, energy efficiency and so on. We're rejecting excess terrain. The revenue resulting from the valorisation of our land is entered in full as non-tax revenue from the Treasury for the benefit of the Federal State. The necessary investment resources for the headquarters are also granted to Defence as a contracting authority. However, the government assumes that the value of the land sold will correspond to the cost of a new headquarters. The realisation of the project will be done through design and build, with one contractor being held responsible for both the study and the execution of the whole. The sales strategy of the surplus land, as well as the approach to the relocation and project development, will be determined by a federal working group which has been set up. We have therefore agreed very concretely to opt for new construction in principle. Furthermore, there is now a federal working group that will examine good strategies. One can quickly spoil oneself in the difficulty of the project: we are in three municipalities and two regions. That is fascinating, but the difficulty of the project is worth it. By the summer recess, it is intended to have a decision on the effective procurement procedure to be followed. A strategy will therefore be developed in between. In fact, that is what the coalition agreement describes as an alternative financing. We have weighed things against each other but since there are also public users interested in parts of the ground, including a fifth part for a European school, we have decided to keep the project within the State. So we're not going to give and we're going to take it as part of some kind of pps construction, it's going to be a more classic formula.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u74	Mr President-in-Office, I would like to confirm that I understand that the procedure for getting the right details of the cost will be worked out in the working group. That's gonna happen by July?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u75	No, determining the cost, the requirements and so on happens internally within the Defense Department. We do not need an external working group to determine what our needs are. On the other hand, for the valorisation of the land and its implementation, it has been decided to look at the matter more broadly. For example, the European School was interested and possibly NATO was interested. So there are a number of interested parties that we already know. There are also private-sector companies that have presented themselves as potential interested parties. So there is an interest in that area. That is why we have to deal with a certain vision of how we are going to alienate or with the timing within which that must be done. That's why there's the federal task force.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u76	When would it have to land?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u77	Against the recess.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I understand that there is a basic agreement and that the details of it will now be further developed. That is a good thing. I think it is important not to waste time, because in the meantime the infrastructure is being further fired and unsustainably handled. I also understand that there will be some kind of simulation if you say that the new building will be realised with the means of sale. I suppose this is based on indications that this can be feasible. I think this is a good thing. We shall come back to this before the summer holidays to hear the evolution of this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u79	Minister, a lot has already been published on this subject in the press. We've even been able to see images on the VRT, but maybe there are some new elements. What kind of aircraft have our planes intercepted? To what extent could they be a threat? Do such incidents happen often? Happens more than before? How do the Russian planes get spotted and who alarms our F-16s to lead them to it? Were the Russian planes in violation and were they carrying weapons? How do you evaluate the cooperation between Belgium and the Netherlands in the light of this concrete example?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u80	Mrs Grosemans, Belgian F-16s did indeed intercept two Tupolev 160 Blackjack planes north of the Dutch territorial waters at 11:50 yesterday. These Russian aircraft are heavy, supersonic, strategic bombers and thus pose no physical threat to the F-16s. In 2017, 22 air incidents were recorded, including 11 Alpha scrambles. Those are effectively performed identification flights. There is a significant increase in such flights in NATO airspace or just outside NATO airspace to identify Russian military aircraft. The Russian aircraft were spotted by the CAOC, the Combined Air Operations Centre. That is a combined air traffic control system of the various NATO countries. In this case, the CAOC has a tactical command over the F-16s. That's the procedure. It alarms Belgian military traffic control if incidents occur near Belgian or Dutch airspace. This in turn alarms the Belgian fighter pilots, as Belgium is next in the Benelux renegaderol. The Russian bombers had no flight plan and flew in areas where all aircraft should be identifiable. Aircraft operating without a flight plan in a controlled airspace infringe international regulations. No external armament was identified by the Belgian pilots. The collaboration between Belgium and the Netherlands worked optimally in this case. The Belgian aircraft were able to intercept and identify the aircraft on time, all the way north of the Dutch territorial waters, before they were transferred to our British colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u81	Thank you for your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u82	Madam President, Minister, our country participated in the international coalition set up to fight Daesh from the end of 2014 until a few weeks ago. This had to be done, in particular, through the deployment of pilots and aircraft from our air force. There was a turn role with the Dutch Air Force. The Dutch took over the torch early this year. I had three questions about this. What is the assessment at the Department of Defense about this participation? The Netherlands took over from our country on 1 January of this year. Is it planned that Belgium will participate in the operation with fighter aircraft again this year? Do you have an idea of the cost of this operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u83	Mr Yüksel, Defense evaluates the past deployment of pilots and aircraft as very effective. The fact that Belgium has agreed without reservation and in the short term to extend the mission of our F-16s for six months has strengthened the international credibility of our defence apparatus and highlighted our allies' priority in the fight against international terrorism. For further explanation, please refer to the briefing given to the parliamentary follow-up committee for operations on 20 December 2017. I think you were there, too. In this context, no Belgian F-16 contribution is planned for 2018. The cost from the start in 2014 I'm talking about the entire period that was flown from Jordan for the deployment of pilots and aircraft at Operation Desert Falcon is 147 581 000 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I wanted to make sure there were no plans to take back the operations. I just wanted to get that confirmation from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u85	Madam President, Minister, I should like to ask you again about any logistical support Belgium could provide to CENI for the organisation of Congolese elections within a strict framework. Last week, we heard in camera from the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation on the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. During the meeting, the potential logistical support to the electoral process, including through MONUSCO, was discussed. Minister Reynders made this point. The document prepared by CENI covers a number of logistical constraints, including the provision of adequate logistical resources for the deployment of electoral materials to CENI. Minister, what is our country's position on this issue in MONUSCO? Have you ever discussed this in the Council of Ministers? What means could Defence potentially make available in this context? I am, of course, thinking of the C-130s who could carry the ballot boxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u86	Mr Crusnière, since May 2017, the military partnership between Belgium and the DRC has been suspended, following a unilateral decision by the Congolese authorities. As a result, no bilateral military activity can take place on the territory of that country. If these diplomatic conditions do not change, it is impossible for us to make any logistical or military contribution to the elections. Please be aware that, as far as I know, MONUSCO has not yet asked the Defence for anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u87	Minister, thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-17-54-commissie-ic798x.u88	I put my question to the Minister. 23041 in a written question.
