ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u1	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3385: Georges Dallemagne, Olivier Maingain, Vanessa Matz, Catherine Fonck, Julie Fernandez Fernandez - 3386: Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings, Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet, Meyrem Almaci, Sarah Schlitz.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a heavy agenda today, and I suggest that we do not waste too much time and start the hearing immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u3	Mr President, in line with your introduction, I would also like to start our agenda as soon as possible. I would also like to thank you for the smooth organisation. That was not obvious, given the short term. At the beginning of the sitting, however, I would like to make it clear that our group is committed to the agreed agenda. We talked about this for a long time last week. The majority has insisted on this session with experts, which I find enriching, but let us be honest, it is rather a political manoeuvre to slow things down. We will be listening very carefully to the experts this morning, but our group wants to make it clear that the agreed agenda must be implemented this afternoon. After all, that is the only way in which Parliament can express its opinion before our government, hopefully as far as we are concerned, moves to Marrakesh. We read in the press that the government would make an effort to change that agenda. I ask that we respect the agreed agenda. I do not want to have a major debate on this, at least not at this stage, but I would like to make that clear, given the rumours. We made clear commitments on this matter last week for a reason. Parliament must be able to vote in committee today and in plenary on Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u4	Mr Dewinter, I will give you the floor immediately, but I suggest that we do not start a debate on something that might come up, which is a request for a change to the agenda. I suggest we start the hearing. If something comes up, it seems to me that this is the right time to debate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u5	Mr President, I would like to express my annoyance at the choice of the specialists invited today. I listened to you on the radio this morning. You said triumphantly that out of the six experts, five will speak out in favour of the Marrakesh immigration pact and that only the expert elected by the N-VA will oppose the Marrakesh immigration pact. So we do not need to hear any more experts, because you said this morning what it will be like, and you concluded this morning on the radio that it was obvious that the immigration pact is a good thing and must therefore be approved. The one-sided choice of experts, five of which have already expressed themselves more or less positively on the Pact, and one negative, is, of course, a reflection of what lives in committee and in Parliament, but not of what lives in public opinion. We had proposed Professor Marc De Vos, Professor Mark Elchardus, Professor Matthias Storme, Professor Afshin Ellian, Professor Paul Scheffer and Professor Jan van de Beek, all of whom are explicitly opposed to the Marrakesh Immigration Pact. None of these six yet reputable and credible scientists have been invited here, which raises questions about the performance that is being staged here today. If for the majority and for the parties that are pro the Marrakesh Immigration Pact, only the intention is to confirm their position here through the experts they have chosen, albeit so. Not for me. But let it be made clear to the annals that there are many other scientists, professors and specialists who oppose the pact and who will not be heard here, because it does not fit in with your stall. So be it. In any case, we will be the interpreter of the professors and specialists who cannot be heard here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u6	I would like to say briefly that today's list of experts has been drawn up in accordance with the working methods that have been used here for decades. It is to be said that every political group represented in the committee is asked to propose a person to be heard. That's what happened. The list that will be finalised today is the result of the proposals that have been received. I suggest we start the hearing now. I propose that we first listen to Ambassador Jean-Luc Bodson, envoyé spécial Migration et Asile, and that after his speech there is an opportunity to ask questions. Then we give the floor to our six experts, in the order in which they appear on the list. They promised to speak to me between 10 and 15 minutes. If we have heard those six experts, you will all have the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to ask for clarification. I suggest that we do not engage in political debates with the experts, but that we ask questions to clarify or deepen some element that has been put forward by the experts. The political debate is scheduled for this afternoon. Is everyone okay with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u7	Mr President, thank you. I will try to do two things at the same time: to be brief (since only 15 minutes have been granted to me, which is little) and then to stick to the facts in order to convey to you the most objective possible vision. Mainly, I will focus on the negotiations, given that I have conducted them and therefore the value I can add lies mainly in these aspects. First of all, I will start with the international context from which this idea begins and the way in which the negotiations took place. I shall turn to the way in which the Belgian position has been adopted and then to the European position. I will discuss the evolution of the negotiations and the fight we have waged with the 27 European partners. I shall then turn to the text itself, its content and what I believe is important. Then I will discuss the changes that we have made during the negotiations. The entire process began with the New York Declaration on Refugees and Migrants in September 2016. This is a resolution of the United Nations General Assembly, adopted by consensus at a summit at the highest level in April 2017. This declaration contains a number of general principles on migration and refugees approved by the international community as a whole, including Belgium. This declaration launches a two-pronged negotiation process: two Global Pacts. The first relates to refugees. The negotiations will take place in Geneva under the auspices of UNHCR. Secondly, the negotiations of the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration will be held in New York under the auspices of the United Nations, in particular the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Migration, Peter Sutherland and, subsequently, Louise Arbour, led by two co-facilitators, the Ambassadors to the United Nations of Mexico and Switzerland. To be clear, the negotiation process lasted about two years, but most of all there was a phase of informal consultations (brainstorming) with thematic sessions on the main migration themes: human rights, the factors that encourage migration, how to cooperate together, what kind of governance should be adopted for migration, how to combat trafficking and trafficking in human beings, how to better involve diasporas, how to combat irregular migration. Regional meetings have taken place since the problem arises in different regions, whether in the Africa-Europe region or in Asia, on the Arabian Peninsula, in America... The idea of these discussions was to have an open debate, without constraint to intergovernmental negotiations where, very quickly, the risk is to fall into the classical division between countries of origin and countries of destination and where one is also obliged to represent a government. The idea was therefore to open a debate so that we could exchange ideas on what works well or not. This led to a conference that was called stock-taking, that is to say, the stock-taking of these open debates in which civil society was involved – local actors, migrant associations –, governments, all stakeholders, that is, all those involved in the migration issue. During the summer of 2017, the conference in Mexico City in Puerto Vallarta took stock of all these freely exchanged ideas. Then, the real intergovernmental negotiations began; they started only at the beginning of this year, in February 2018, on the basis of a text drafted by the two co-facilitators that drew on all the discussions that had taken place before. There was therefore a lot of good ideas in this text, called zero draft (the first draft) which was distributed to the Member States in early February and on the basis of which the negotiation process was initiated. Six negotiating sessions (one week per month) were held in New York from February to July. They closed in July with a text that was not approved but we finalized the negotiations there; the co-facilitators handed it over to the President of the General Assembly of the United Nations. As far as these negotiations are concerned, on what basis have I negotiated? A Belgian position had been defined. This was done on the basis of a COORMULTI. What is a COORMULTI? It is a formal meeting in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs brings together all the bodies: federal, federated, administrative, representatives of the cabinets of ministers and secretaries of state, i.e. all the bodies which, in this case, have competence in the field of migration to define a Belgian position, lines to take that define our priorities – what we want to see in this text and what we do not want to see – our red lines, that is, what we want to eliminate at all costs to avoid it being found in this text. Three COORMULTI meetings were held. The first was held on 19 February 2018, before the start of the negotiations, on the basis of this first project. We defined a Belgian position, with which I went to New York to negotiate on the basis of these instructions, knowing what Belgium wanted and refused. Then there was a second one on 4 June, just before the most crucial round of negotiations, in order to re-evaluate our position in the light of the evolution of the negotiations. The text had changed in the meantime. We added things we might not like. We have revised this text by redefining our position. Then the negotiations were closed. A third meeting was held on 12 September and was used to approve the text. I'll read you the report. As this was an informal meeting, all parties concerned had been invited to attend. It says: "Belgium believes that the text is balanced, reflects the concerns we have expressed and represents an important step forward at the global diplomatic level. Therefore, Belgium will not only approve the text in Marrakech in December, but will proactively invite other countries to do the same." For me, this is Belgium's official position, as defined by the ad hoc mechanisms. I didn't negotiate alone in New York. In principle, we have done so within a European framework. How did this happen? Since migration is a mixed matter, since it is not just a matter for the European institutions and the States, but for both, we should have ideally reached a consensus that would have enabled the European Union delegation in New York to negotiate on behalf of the European Union and the Member States. This was not possible, because a few days before the beginning of the negotiations in February, Hungary had decided to oppose any form of migration. The Orbán government had decided that it was a bad thing in itself. It therefore made little sense for him to negotiate a Pact for even safe and orderly migration. In short, the extreme position of the Hungarian government has made any European consensus impossible. It goes against the acquis communautaire which is contained in the European Treaties. This position is therefore not legal. We found the solution, perhaps a little bit sloppy, but that finally worked. It is to have one of the member countries of the European Union, Austria, before it had the presidency – it therefore did not fulfil any official function in the European institutions – which represented the 27 member countries of the European Union. You know that in the United Nations, any group of States can come together informally. We can decide to speak on behalf of a particular country. That is what we have done, but on behalf of the 27 Member States of the European Union, except Hungary. I think everyone understood what this was about. As for the Belgian position, I have tried to translate it into a European position. It was quite easy, since within the European Union I understood the Belgian position as a median position. You had countries that were much tougher than us, from a host country perspective that wants to avoid having more obligations and that wants to keep control of its borders, that wants to keep the possibility of returning illegal migrants, that doesn't mean regularization, firewall. You had three extremely active countries, the United Kingdom, Denmark and the Netherlands. It should be noted that other countries, including the countries of Eastern and Central Europe, were very few in the negotiations. It is still interesting to see that today the three toughest countries are in a position to approve the text, perhaps because they had what they were asking for, while some countries that seem not to have much interest in the text during the negotiations, when it was time, decided to drop. Nevertheless, the position of these three countries (Denmark, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom) has made it easier for me to do so because I have received a whole series of comments from the Foreign Office or from the Office of the Secretary of State for Migration, insisting, for example, that there should be no obligation on family reunification beyond our legislation, so that the commitment to put an end to the detention of minors at the time of the construction of a centre should be abolished. All these positions, I was easily able to incorporate them into the position of the Twenty-seven, because I was covered by these three countries which had a harder position than ours. Then I come to the question of how the negotiations have been conducted. I noticed the great polarisation in the Chamber, with the countries of origin on the one hand and the countries of destination on the other. On the one hand, there were extreme Latin American countries who felt that migration was a right. On the other hand, there were the sovereign countries, such as China and Russia, which insisted that the text should be non-legally binding and that the language should not be prescriptive, and that much emphasis should be placed on their sovereignty and on their own decision on migration. In that polarized context, there were two important groups. On the one hand, there was the group of 27, perhaps because we have a bridge position in many aspects and also because we are an extremely important partner. The United States of Donald Trump decided not to take part in the negotiations. They remained totally absent. In the absence of the US, the group of 27 was one of the most important actors. If we asked, the co-facilitators couldn't ignore it. If Bhutan or Liechtenstein asked for anything, they could be taken into account, but they do not have the same weight. On the other hand, there was the African group, which also had a reasonable impact, but a little less. He has managed to speak with one voice, despite the great differences of opinion in the group. In this respect, South Africa's position was remarkable. I find it strange that, given this context, we have been able to produce a concise, balanced and useful text. For me, it's a good text. He's understandable, the language is pretty clear. There's a logic in it, which is more or less the chronological logic of a migrant. The text has the ambition of a 360° approach, which covers everything. After all, we find that this is the only way to be efficient. The group of 27, including Belgium, has succeeded in bringing references to the text, about everything that is important to us. We got what we wanted. So I was extremely satisfied, I was a satisfied diplomat in mid-July when the text was finished. The co-facilitators then said that the text had been negotiated and that they would give the text to the President. Everything that Belgium wanted, all the instructions I received at the time from Brussels, is in that text. It is not a text to promote or curb migration, but a text whose ambition is to be neutral. He noted the migration. Migration has existed for 80,000 years since Homo sapiens left Africa. It is happening, for the moment, in a rather chaotic way. It has the ambition to bring this chaos into order through a cooperative approach between the Member States, because the unilateral approach does not work – as has been demonstrated – and through a 360-degree approach, where all aspects of migration are dealt with in parallel, and not only by focusing on some rather than others. Experts who are more qualified than I am to tell you will talk about this earlier, but in any case I can read the text I have negotiated: it says in black and white that the text is non-legally binding. The text is legally non-binding; that is stated in the text. "It upholds the sovereignty of States," so the text respects the sovereignty of the countries. The text states that the countries retain their sovereignty as regards the decision on who or not has access to the territory. The text contains several paragraphs on this subject. The general Guiding Principles contain a whole chapter on the sovereignty of states. So I do not see why and how it is possible to claim that the text is legally binding. I have also heard the argument that if the text is not legally binding, then what is the point of going to Marrakesh, since the text has no impact. I do not agree with that argument at all, because it is a political commitment. A promise to me is serious. If I promise someone that he's my best friend and I'm not gonna let him down, he can't drag me into court with that. Does this promise not therefore have any value? The States that will adopt this text will agree, commit themselves to cooperate (because it is a cooperative framework) to achieve 23 objectives. It's important. As parliamentarians, if you are wondering at any time whether to adopt or not to adopt this Covenant, you must read the 23 objectives. Do we agree that Belgium is committed to cooperating to achieve these 23 objectives? If one of these objectives is a problem, then it is the adoption of the Covenant that poses a problem. However, when I negotiated, since I am not completely unconscious, I have ensured that these objectives are in line either with a political desire to do better, or with a policy that we are already pursuing or with legislation that we already have. I am not referring here to the possible actions that follow, but we have 23 objectives – there are in fact 22, the 23rd is a concession that we have made to Africans (to get other things) and which relates to cooperation, but the whole text speaks of cooperation, so that this 23rd objective is, in my opinion, useless but innocent. The first of these aims is to share information in order to objectify the debate. Those who wish to hold a debate on the basis of fears or prejudices should not adopt this text. If you find it useful to share information and have data in order to know exactly what we are talking about in terms of migration flows, in terms of impact on our social security, for example, but you have to have evidence-based policies, in this case you have to subscribe to this objective. The second objective is to reduce the root causes of migration. Even Hungarians agree. If you don't want people to migrate, you have to make sure they're happy at home, say the Hungarians, and they're not wrong on this point. This objective therefore aims to combat all causes, be they wars, corruption or lack of democracy or economic prospects, the effects of climate change, etc. We do not create a new category of climate refugees, it is said that the climate will have such consequences that it will cause people to migrate. It is therefore necessary to tackle the problem and help these people to set up other forms of agriculture, more efficient irrigation methods, to build dikes, in other words to take measures to avoid migration as a result of the climate. The third point: to properly inform migrants. That's what this is about. To provide information so that the consular services of Senegal or Mali can be present in Libya to give information to migrants on the way, is an element, but information to migrants is also what we do when we conduct information campaigns in the countries of origin to combat the misinformation of smugglers. In my opinion, this objective corresponds to something we are already doing. The fourth point is identity documents. This is, of course, the responsibility of the citizen's country. Don't you all have an identity card and the possibility of having access to a passport if you want to migrate or travel? We ask countries that do not do so to do so. These identity documents protect a migrant. If you are a citizen of a particular country, it gives you some protection. In a return perspective, why is our return policy often a failure? Because these migrants don't have a document. What we are asking our partners in the countries of origin is to work together to have civil registers worthy of that name. Identity documents must be based on something; there must be a civil register that many of these countries do not have. It's a huge project. Identity documents are linked to the civil registry, and so on. I can only advise you to read these goals and see if you agree or if there are any problems. In any case, I have confronted them with our legislation, European legislation on the subject, the practices we carry out or the political will. For Objective 1, there is work on the board in Belgium. I understood that there was a political agreement to move forward in this area. During these negotiations, the 27 countries, including Belgium, obtained numerous amendments which enabled us to eliminate from the text everything that bothered us, according to the instructions I received between February and July. I have completed a long study that I have submitted to the Prime Minister and to my Minister. I don't have time to expose it to you here. It analyses in detail the zero draft (the first version of the text), the final version - the one we will adopt in Marrakech, and the minutes of the COORMULTI, which are my instructions. When you look at this, it is difficult not to be happy, if you stop at this formal negotiation process. I give you a few examples. In terms of sovereignty, the original text was not as balanced as the final text. Another element that has raised a great deal of debate is that of firewalls, firewalls. Belgium was not extremely opposed to the British, Danish and Dutch. What is a firewall? That's the idea that you're an irregular migrant. You're a woman. You're being raped. You don't dare to seek protection from the police for fear of being evicted. Therefore, you cannot assert a fundamental human right. The proposal that was made was to have a firewall, that is, the police accept your statement, make a complaint, protect you by ignoring your status. On the European side, we had a problem with that. Indeed, it is said that the Pact aims to promote regular, safe and orderly migration and thus to combat irregular migration and also aims at an understanding approach, a comprehensive approach. However, we are asked to make compartments between the different administrations. We can't accept it. We have therefore eliminated it from the text and we have found another formula which corresponds exactly to our legislation against trafficking in human beings which allows a trafficked victim to be protected but without masking his irregular status. It will be protected as long as it cooperates and can lead the procedure to the end. Another debate focused on the criticism of the text of being the songwriter of migration and being too positive. It is true that this text aims to combat the negative prejudices that too often exist with regard to migration, stressing that migration can be positive. Great nations have built on migration and are extremely dynamic. Nevertheless, we have asked to add a negative effect on irregular migration because it is a problem for us today. It creates fears in our society. It creates insecurity. This has therefore been added. There is a balanced text that mentions the positive aspects of regular migration and the negative aspects of irregular migration. The text has on several occasions been strengthened between regular and irregular migrants. This is in the text. If you are making a book about vegetarian cuisine, it is not necessary to add to each recipe that there will be no meat in it. Here, it's kind of the same thing. This text speaks of regular migration and seeks to combat irregular migration, as stated in the objectives. There are some passages where the distinction must be made or not. As far as human rights are concerned, it is true, I admit, that all migrants, even irregular migrants, have been considered to be men and therefore have the right to the protection of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to all protections. All the commitments that Belgium has already made apply to these people. On the other hand, distinction is made in other areas, such as access to services. Of course, an irregular migrant, and I take the example of a woman who is raped or is due to give birth... should she be allowed to give birth on the street? No. In Belgium, she is entitled to minimum care. She's entitled to police protection. Children, there is the obligation to attend school. There are already basic services that Belgium provides, even to irregular migrants. But what has been achieved in the text is that a distinction is made that if you are a regular migrant, who pays your taxes and social security, you will obviously be entitled to other services. It's not the same thing. Secondly, the list of basic services was mentioned. In there, there was housing, food. I'm not an irregular migrant, the state doesn't pay for my accommodation or food. At the request of the Office of Foreigners and the Office of the Secretary of State for Migration, this list was requested to be deleted because it was felt that it was State sovereignty to decide what basic services it provided to illegal migrants. As I said, there is no new category for climate migration. The problem is recognized. I think it's worth it because it's a problem that hangs us up in the years to come. It is true that, also in legal migration, it is formulated as one of the possibilities of legal channels but according to a language which is very cautious and which is not "prescriptive". We had to fight because there was a very strong pressure from the countries of Oceania to have a whole chapter on climate change. And that wasn't the case. With regard to family reunification, there was a formulation that could have been problematic and that had been changed at the request of the Office of Foreigners. The wording was exactly the same as those requested. In my view, this formulation is in full agreement with our family reunification legislation. We must not forget that this text is addressed to the whole world and that there are countries that do not respect the right to family reunification. There are countries in which a migrant, even in a regular situation, is unable to bring his family in so strict a condition. I am thinking of the Arabian peninsula, for example. Those States were asked not to put insurmountable obstacles. In Belgium, there is no insurmountable obstacle. There are obstacles that are reasonable and the wording leaves us all the room, even to revise our law in one direction or the other if we consider it necessary. As far as the principle of collective regularisation is concerned, it is true that there is a trap because you say that we want to combat irregular migration but that we regulate irregular migrants. This has been opposed and today the term "regularization" is no longer in the text. There is indeed an extremely cautious mention which says "States commit themselves to cooperate, based on existing practices, to facilitate the access of migrants to individual assessment processes that could lead to a regular status". So I do not know whether a judge can still drag Belgium before the courts on the basis of such a formulation. Now I really have questions. There's something else, but it's a text... Do I speak too long, Mr President? Maybe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u8	I see you're on the last page of your text. Will you finish your statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u9	Yeah, okay. There was debate about the decriminalization of victims. We did not want people to be punished for trafficking in human beings when they are trafficked. Finally, we have found a formulation that states can always punish illegal residents, as the British do and as our legislation provides – even if migrants in irregular situations are not criminally punished. In short, the idea of decriminalizing illegal immigration has been removed from the text, but we wanted to decriminalize the victims of trafficking. With regard to the practice of detention of children, here too, the emphasis is on the search for alternative solutions – which is in line with our legislation and practice. We are using it only as a last resort. It is also in line with European legislation in this area. For the detention of minors, we have therefore changed the text to put an end to it, because it is not in line with our practice of building a centre, albeit a family one, but a closed one. The text now states that we are committed to seeking alternatives, but also that, until we have found them, we reserve the right to use detention – including minors. It is therefore entirely in line with our practice. Something important that we have achieved, while not included in the text, is the very clear mention of the obligation – already in force, but often denied by many states of origin – to accept their citizens. Belgian and European return policies are frequently doomed to failure because of the lack of will on the part of the countries of origin. This obligation is now written in black and white in the text. We removed a reference to it that prohibited forced deportations. So this term is no longer there, as we do not like it. On the other hand, forced return, if necessary, remains entirely possible. I have forgotten an essential aspect that we have also achieved. At the last moment there was the fact that after the 22 objectives there were a series of good practices. In the beginning it was not clear, there was an actionable commitment that was reported by Mr Cologneer in relation to it. What is an actionable commitment? That is indeed a terminology that is indemnifying. You undertake to conduct an action. We, the Europeans, did not agree with that. That is not acceptable to us. It's about migration. The concrete situation is so different in different places in the world that it is not possible to have a one size fits all. Measures that apply to everyone, that is not possible. Then there are too many obligations. During the last negotiations, after intense lobbying by the co-facilitators, it was said that we would not approve of this. They have adapted the text, in the "Guiding Principles" and after each objective. Nu staat het zo geformulerd: "To implement this objective we will draw from the following actions." So it's clear, it's about a list of possible policy options. So, Mr Cologneer, I do not understand why you reported that in this matter. What we are going to adopt in Marrakesh is the latest version of the text, not the penultimate one. "Actionable commitments" are no longer in the latest version.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u10	No, but a lot of professional literature does.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u11	The text doesn't say that anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u12	That doesn't make much difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u13	We have fought for it, and We have obtained it. This makes it clear that the philosophy of the text is cooperative, not legally binding. If you have a speed limit, you cannot have a menu when you enter the Brussels tunnels where you can drive between 30, 60, 90 and 120 km/h. After all, you would decide for yourself what the appropriate speed is for you personally. It doesn't work. It is clear here that we are dealing with a number of good practices, good methods that we can use as a source of inspiration. However, we can decide that a particular point is not relevant to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u14	Thank you, Mr Bodson, for this clear statement. I now give the floor to colleagues. I would just like to say that we are not going to debate politically with our guests. We ask for clarification, depth or explanation of elements touched by our guest. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to keep your questions very brief and not to make any comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u15	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u16	All right, that's the choice of the group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u17	Mr President, Mr Bodson, I thank you for your very illuminating statement on how to arrive at the text and, above all, on the role Belgium played. I have two very brief questions. First, you mentioned twice that in the original text, the confinement of children was prohibited, if I understood correctly. You said at one point: "We asked, since we had a family wing under construction, that it be removed from the text." Do I understand correctly? Do you confirm that the ban on the confinement of children has been removed from this text, inter alia at the request of Belgium? Secondly, you are telling us that the hardest countries with regard to the text were the Netherlands, Denmark and the United Kingdom. Today they are the three countries on which Belgium relies to try to find a solution. Do you confirm that these countries were the least receptive to the text, to say so?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u18	Thank you for your brief questions. Mr De Roover, I had not noticed that you raised your hand; I apologise for that. You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Bodson. I have to say to most of you here that you have met Members a number of times over the last few months. You know that the N-VA was faithfully present, which cannot be said of everyone present here. On the contrary, this usually took place in enormous indifference. Not with us, we have very much appreciated those meetings, by the way. You have also pointed out here that there have been very active improvements to the original texts in the course of the process. We have indeed been involved in this process. I would also like to confirm that, as a diplomat and in the role you play, you have been on an excellent track. You have done so within the context of the diplomatic talks, as they form the basis of this type of text. I should really like to say that this is beyond the competence of this committee, Mr President-in-Office, that we could appoint you as a global and final interpreter of these texts. I would be reasonably reassured, but I fear that someday others than you will have to judge the meaning of the texts, which seems to me to be a problem. Mr President, I have two questions. I will not put some of my questions to the diplomat for obvious reasons. After all, he is bound by his duty to remain within his diplomatic role. That will be less the case with the experts, I suppose. So I will not ask the diplomat why this has never been on the government table before. Mr Bodson, first of all, Austria and co-facilitator Switzerland have experienced the whole process very prominently and then seemingly revised their judgment. Do you have any information from your position as to what might be causing this? Secondly, you said that it is not legally binding, but politically it is promissory note. That's important, of course. I do not know what this is about colleagues, but it is important to pay attention to making promises, because they are sometimes called upon to do so, even if they are politicians. Perhaps that is a category of people who can be more frivolous about it, but there are limits to the political promises they make. To what extent will we be faced with these political promises tomorrow when we agree to this pact? One last question. Do you agree with what our experts, Mr Wouters, and Mr Van Poecke, have written over the past few weeks: "The UN's negotiating processes are in need of refinement. A purely intergovernmental negotiation process is no longer sufficient for such a sensitive policy theme." I repeat that you have done an excellent job, but of course you have done so in the darker stages of political decision-making. This must be partly due to the fact that the political and social debate has started so late. Do you agree that the negotiation technique and the negotiation process in such Pacts are in need of refinement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u20	Mr. Chairman, Your Excellency, I have two very simple questions to ask you to hear you in a clear and, I hope, unequivocal manner. At each stage of the negotiation, on the formulation of this Migration Pact, with all the speakers you mentioned in your presentation, have you received the green light each time to continue the negotiations? I would like to hear you in a clear and precise way; it is very important. For my second question, it seems to me that the answer can be just as clear and precise. We have heard sometimes very different information in recent weeks about the legal impact of signing this Covenant in Belgian law. Can you tell us whether legal changes will have to be made following the signing of this Covenant in order to be incorporated into Belgian positive law? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u21	Mr President, I too will be very brief. In turn, I would like to thank Mr Bodson for his presence and explanation. Indeed, it is not easy to adopt a Belgian, European and general position. However, what I understand from his explanation of the Belgian position is that the overall analysis and conclusion was that it was a very balanced text, which was negotiated. I would like to return to the way in which the Belgian position has been established. Mr Bodson, you spoke of the COORMULTI, which has come together several times. I would have liked to have heard again from you exactly who was in that COORMULTI, to make it clear who gave its approval to continue the negotiations? I would have liked to ask you a second question. During your speech, you indicated that during the three meetings there were a number of elements that we agreed with or disagreed with. You yourself have already spoken about family reunification; you mentioned that Belgium wanted family reunification to be included in the text in accordance with Belgian legislation, which has also happened, as you pointed out. Were there any other points that led to disagreement or questions, but were not finally approved? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u22	Mr President, Mr Bodson, thank you for your clear explanation. I have four questions. Firstly, will the pact restrict media freedom, as opponents say? Can only positive talk about migration? Secondly, which provisions of the Pact are currently not met by Belgium? Thirdly, to what extent will the Pact help us to make the following treaties or agreements? Let me give you an example. Will it be easier, on the basis of the pact with countries, to conclude agreements on a return policy, which is very difficult today? Finally, Mr Bodson, you said that during the negotiations, Belgium got everything it wanted. Have you ever received signals from Belgian politics that the content was not good? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u23	Mr President, Mr Bodson, I would like to thank you for your very clear explanation, which was very transparent for a diplomat. I have four questions. Firstly, some are now proposing the COORMULTI as a purely administrative consultation. The real political dialogue had yet to begin. Do you consider the COORMULTI to be a purely administrative consultation? Secondly, we understood that the Francken cabinet remained absent at the last COORMULTI meeting. Can you tell me what the exact conclusion of this sitting was? Was that conclusion ever disputed in any way? Thirdly, I note that the N-VA has put on the table thirty comments or objections on the agreement. Did you ever get those 30 objections during the negotiations? Or have you somehow received signals that were acceptable or not acceptable? Fourthly, this is a technical question. What diplomatic and technical solutions are conceivable besides going to Marrakesh, not going to Marrakesh or drawing up an interpretative statement? Is there a fourth or fifth diplomatic possibility or solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u24	Mr President, Mr Bodson, I would also like to thank you for your explanation, which leaves nothing to be desired in terms of clarity. I assume that she can also be particularly confrontational for some in this Chamber. My questions are as follows. You say that a consultation phase started in April 2017. Has our country had a chance to make her voice heard in that? In what way did it do this? Three COORMULTI meetings have taken place since this year. Of course, this is not a matter for the Foreign Office alone. Can you tell me which departments were involved in this? As far as family reunification is concerned, I would also like an explanation. We read in the press that some people believe that this pact will facilitate the right to family reunification. When reading the Pact and, in particular, paragraph 21(i), we are talking about 'accessible procedures' which make the possible right to family reunification applicable to all. They are, as it were, given the opportunity to enter into the procedure. Do you support our lecture? You have just projected, explained and read out the official position of our country. We read in it that there is not only support, but also active promotion of the Marrakesh Pact by our country. It has been a very long negotiation process. You also make it clear that this is not an open border pact, even if some try to do so. On the contrary, this is a very balanced text with a distinction between regular and irregular migration, return of migrants, read mission, tackling smugglers. Moreover, our country has made a great deal of adjustments to this text. You have given a very impressive overview of this. Is it logical and justifiable for you, as a diplomat, that after two years, at the end of the journey, after the whole process, our country would back off and turn its back? What would that do to the credibility of our country? Finally, do you have any idea of the positions taken by other countries in the negotiation process or the positions that are changing now? In fact, you mentioned two countries in particular, Hungary and Austria, which at some point wanted to break the European consensus and started to be averse. You have also mentioned three other countries, the United Kingdom, Denmark and the Netherlands, which have adopted a particularly tough stance in the process, but which will ultimately support the Pact, subject to an additional text. That's a position that our country could take perfectly. Is that right? Since the adoption of the Pact and the speech of the Prime Minister in New York, has a letter actually changed the Pact or is the text still the same? Is the only thing and course the route changed is the political protest of a number of countries in Europe, there are not many, but still some with free right-wing populist governments and the party bureau of the N-VA? That too is a new fact since the adoption of the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u25	Mr President, Ambassador Bodson, thank you for your extremely clear and convincing briefing. You have shown how proactive Belgium has been in this process and how satisfied Belgium has been with the results of this process. You also pointed out and recalled that the hardest countries in the negotiations at European level (Great Britain, Denmark, the Netherlands) went to Marrakech to adopt the Migration Pact. We have just heard the criticisms of our colleague, Peter De Roover, saying that there had been negotiations behind the scenes and that we would have done better to have a little more transparent negotiations. On the contrary, I am impressed by the quality of the involvement of all governments, members of government and civil society in this process. Is that something unusual? Moreover, it would be interesting to have the minutes of these COORMULTI meetings, to see a little bit about the table and what the comments were, in particular about the N-VA, which now wants Belgium to withdraw from this process. I would have liked to know what specific comments the N-VA had made and what specific answers had been provided. You have given some examples but it would be interesting to complete them. In the same vein, have you had any warning signals at any given time? Some members of the government, some cabinets have told you, "Attention, this is a red line for us! Be careful, if we do not get what we are looking for, we will not be able to adopt this Covenant." Have you had any alerts in the last few weeks? Before the Prime Minister's statement in New York, who was very firm and in favour of this Pact, did you have any warning signals from anyone? Who eventually reviewed the Prime Minister's statement? In general, this type of declaration is subject to consultation and possibly writing. Who wrote this passage from the Prime Minister's text? It would be interesting to know. Finally, at the last meeting, there was this very impressive conclusion: Belgium believes that the text reflects the concerns we have expressed and will proactively invite other countries. Who represented Belgium at the government level? Were Mr Franken's office, Mr Jambon's office or others represented at that meeting? Have there been any comments on this final conclusion? Is it usual for Belgium to proactively invite other countries to ratify it? We can see that there is enthusiasm on the part of Belgium? What made Belgium insist that there should be a proactive approach towards other countries? Finally, what would be the actual consequences of a withdrawal from Belgium? You have a great career as a diplomat; we are a multilateral country, we are a country that seeks international cooperation. What could be the diplomatic consequence of Belgium's failure to go to Marrakech?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u26	Mr Bodson, you mentioned the COORMULTI Group several times. How were the decisions of the COORMULTI group finally confirmed? I assume they were endorsed by the government, but to whom did the COORMULTI group report? To the State Department or to the whole government? Were all ministers informed or not? In your speech, you said that the Pact as such is neutral. I read in the pact: "We recognize that immigrant is a source of prosperity, innovation and sustainable development in a globalized world, and that these positive impacts can be optimized by improving migration governance." None of that seems so neutral to me. Immigration is described as something positive, as something that can lead to a source of prosperity, innovation and development in our globalised world. There are, after all, different views on immigration than the vision put forward in the text. I therefore have reservations about this neutrality. You also spoke about sovereignty, which would not be compromised. I know that there is a separate passus on it in the pact. The pact would also be non-binding. Strictly legal that is true of course, but I also read in the Pact the following: "For follow-up and review, we agree on intergovernmental measures that will assist us in fulfilling our objectives and commitments." This follow-up will take place from 2020, will take place every four years in an International Migration Review Forum, where an intergovernmental declaration will have to be made on the progress and implementation of the measures to achieve the objectives, and will have to be sealed and signed through a Progress Declaration. I don't think it's that casual. That the text would not be legally binding, we can discuss this, but the Pact clearly states that every four years there will be a follow-up, with a Progress Declaration, commitments and objectives to be met. How do you reconcile this with the preservation of our sovereignty in immigration policy? For me, it looks very much like another attempt by the United Nations to globalise immigration policy. Our sovereignty is thus seriously affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u27	Mr President, I too would like to begin by thanking Ambassador Bodson for the transparency he has brought, because that is very important. Mr Bodson, diplomacy and justice sometimes collide. At some point, you referred to the speed of the directive, and that is indeed a very good example. If a directive speed is imposed, for example 80 kilometres per hour, then there will be no conviction when that directive speed is exceeded. However, if a judge has to judge the manner in which in the Netherlands a careful family-father named the mate or bespoke person should behave, the judge will, on the basis of the speed of the directive, arrive at a conviction. I therefore believe that justice and diplomacy sometimes clash in this area. Mr Bodson, an important point from your speech, which I have kept in mind, is that all the instructions you have received from Brussels are in the text. At a certain point in time, you explained something in French and I would not like that passage to escape from the Dutch-speaking journalists, here in the Chamber. You said that the article on family reunification, in particular Article 21(i), was drawn up after consultation and on the basis of instructions from the Foreign Affairs Office, i.e. the services of Secretary of State Francken. Now there seems to be a problem in this area. I myself have very clear problems with that article, but I did not draw up the text. Did I understand correctly that this paragraph was drawn up after consultation and on the basis of instructions from the Foreign Office?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u28	Mr Bodson, I have four questions. You mentioned instructions from the government, including the Prime Minister. Can you tell us from which government member or cabinet they came from? What was the role of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration? Are you aware of many international texts which also explicitly stress that they are legally non-binding and how this happens in other cases? Can this Covenant be interpreted as giving new rights to migrants, rights that do not yet exist in our legalization? Do you think that today there is an organized international campaign of misinformation, of fake news about this Covenant?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u29	Mr President, I would like to ask our diplomat – and we feel that he has complete control of the matter – how he feels about what has been adopted by the Bundestag and by the Netherlands in terms of interpretative declarations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u30	Mr. Chair, I will try to group the issues together because many relate to the decision-making and negotiation processes. Can we refine negotiations with the UN? Here's what I'd say. The world is what it is. The UN is a reflection of the world. There are a number of democratically well-run states. There are also a number of dictatorships and failed states. The quality of the negotiations depends on this. I think that in the Chamber there are people who speak on behalf of their government and that this is not necessarily the subject of a democratic process. What can Belgium do? It can ensure that our own procedures are in line with democracy so that our contribution to the negotiation process is useful. That's the question I'm asking myself. I negotiate with interlocutors who represent a country. I do not wonder how they defined their position. It's a data for me. I don't have control over that. However, how do Belgium and its European partners define their position? There is a very clear procedure and I come back to all the questions I have had about COORMULTI. I'll explain more. In my opinion, we have a very routine process where there is no dichotomy between the bureaucratic level and the political level. I've been a diplomat for 30 years and, believe me, I'm not going to the break-up to negotiate texts without worrying about what the political level thinks. A well-functioning State is a State in which the political level deals with an issue, instructs its officials, in this case a diplomat, to negotiate on the basis of a position that has been democratically established at the political level. How is the functioning of COORMULTI or CEOs going, which is another mechanism for all European fora? As I said, we invite – it is a competence of foreign affairs but they are only a notary in this process – all administrations, be it administrations or cabinets, representatives of the competent political levels. What does this mean here in terms of migration? This means the Minister for Foreign Affairs, since it is still a UN negotiation, the Minister for Development Cooperation, since in the area of migration there is a large part of cooperation, notably through the European Union, the Emergency Trust Fund. There is full cooperation in addressing the root causes of migration. There are cooperation projects for civil status registers, to assist in border control. There are representatives of the Office of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, a representative of the Office of the Minister of the Interior, a representative of the Office of the Minister of Economic Affairs, a representative of the Office of the Prime Minister, of course, representatives of the Regions and of all the administrations concerned. Thus, in Foreign Affairs, there are various services that I pass on to you: the Development Cooperation Service, the Office of Foreigners, Fedasil, the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons. The main thing at the political level is to have all the firms concerned (sometimes even at lower levels) and the Regions also because they have a role to play when granting a work permit. When it comes to legal migration, the link is made with economic needs. In these COORMULTI are invited representatives of the cabinets, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Development Cooperation, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Prime Minister. All the deputy prime ministers or representatives of ministers who are also deputy prime ministers were therefore present in these COORMULTI. Is this therefore a bureaucratic level? It is the responsibility of the representative of the firm to assess whether there is a problem. I worked at one time in a cabinet, and it was my responsibility to sort out what was routine and what I told the minister in the face of a political problem. If there is a political problem, it goes up from one level and it goes into inter-cabinets and eventually into the Council of Ministers. This does not therefore remain blocked at COORMULTI. COORMULTI is a start to negotiations. If the ministers concerned consider that everything is going well thanks to the instructions they give to their cabinet members and through their administration, this is still the case if one considers that there is a problem. I was asked if there was a signal at any point that there was a problem. The answer is no. I have not multiplied the COORMULTI because there have been six negotiating sessions, but it is clear that during a series of sessions one skates: each delegation repeats its starting point and one does not listen much to the other. It's only towards the end of the process that it unlocks because we realize that we need to reach an agreement. I formed a formal COORMULTI before, towards the end, so that we could have instructions that took into account the evolution of the text, and then, to approve it. Between these COORMULTI, there are indeed informal exchanges of e-mails, and I have traces of them. This is not a parliamentary inquiry, but I have traces of many exchanges with the administrations, the Office of Foreigners, the office of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, which are obviously among the first concerned and which have contributed actively, who have indicated that they have problems on a particular point. Since each time we managed to change them, and especially the final version, I had no negative signal at the end of the negotiations that this text was unacceptable. Everyone was invited to the last COORMULTI. I called Thomas Moens to draw his attention to the importance of this COORMULTI, because it was a matter of approving this text. We both thought, naively, that there would be no problem since that was consistent with the guidelines. I asked him whether to change the date; he told me that he was on a mission to Vienna or Budapest with the Secretary of State and that he could not be present, but that he thought there would be no problem. How was the COORMULTI's position confirmed? We make minutes which are sent to all participants. They can respond to this and say that they do not agree with certain passages. This may also be discussed at a higher level, for example in an IKW or at the level of the government. That didn't happen. I do not know who wrote Prime Minister Michel's speech. That was probably someone from his cabinet, perhaps with input from the administration. Someone from Prime Minister Michel's cabinet was present at the COORMULTI meeting, where we decided not only to approve the text because we thought it was a balanced, good and useful text, but also to defend it. We don't always do that. The idea that we would defend the text arose from the fact that all the members of the COORMULTI, all the competent administrations, shared the view that the text was positive, good and useful to fight against irregular migration and to promote the positive aspects of regular migration. It also asked what I think Austria and Switzerland would not go to Marrakesh, while an official on the one hand was a co-facilitator and Austria on the other hand negotiated in the name of the 27 EU Member States. I do not know whether it is for me to comment on or assess the position of other Member States, but I can say that if Chancellor Kurz has decided not to go to Marrakesh, I have not heard from him any arguments based on the text. He didn't say what points he had a problem with. However, it is not for me to explain the fact that a diplomat is going to negotiate, perhaps with instructions, and that the government subsequently decides not to go. The co-facilitators are also neutral officials. The role of the co-facilitator is simply to create a text and then listen to everyone and put the cursor in the right place so that the text is acceptable to everyone. That's his responsibility. My colleague, who negotiated the text for Switzerland, did so. Mrs Fernandez, indeed, Belgium was not at the forefront. The Danes absolutely wanted all prohibitions on the confinement of children to be removed. Belgium could satisfy itself with a nuance by saying that it committed itself, in the long run, to work to eliminate the confinement of children and to seek alternative solutions. That's what we do. So we were not soaring. The Danes were much more intransigent. But it helped us get what we wanted. The solution. Countries such as Denmark, the Netherlands and Great Britain were the hardest in the negotiations. And, today, this is not the subject of any debate in Britain, which means that Theresa May will follow this directly. The result is that Britain can approve the text, which shows that it is a good example of successful negotiations. Will they all make an interpretative declaration? Yes. Is that a solution? I have no problem with that. Some countries, such as Denmark, would prefer a common position. They would have preferred a statement to twenty-seven, but that is no longer realistic. They hoped with as many European countries as possible because it gives more weight. Making a statement on its own has its weight but making it one with a large number of European countries, with a coalition, gives more weight and is more credible. This track had already been formulated at the first High Level (European forum at the UN where migration issues are discussed). In my opinion, it was a good idea. To make an explanation of vote, an interpretative declaration, in which Belgium stresses once again the points that are frightening, stressing that this Covenant does not affect our sovereignty, is non-legally binding and some points of which can be clarified, does not, in my view, pose any problems and does not diminish the value of our commitment. Mr De Roover, I have indeed met Members of Parliament, three times during the negotiations, once in February, once in May and once in July. The Chairman is a member of the N-VA. I have indeed had the opportunity to give a debriefing to reassure him about the evolution of the negotiations. Questions were asked and I replied. I appreciate that, but during those pleasant conversations I didn't hear an alarm bell that said, "I can't do that for the N-VA." I myself proposed to give a debriefing to the Chamber during the negotiations. If Members thought this was important, I would be prepared to explain how the negotiations evolved, but that did not happen. What are the consequences of political commitment when we go to Marrakesh? My services have started a very detailed study on how Belgium is already implementing the Global Compact. My idea was, when I thought we were still going to Marrakesh, that the minister representing Belgium could take the floor and say: Belgium is an example. Objective 1: We're already doing it. Objective 2: We're already doing it, and so on. There are fine examples of good practice, of things that we already do. You should not forget that this text is addressed to all the Member States of the UN and most of the Member States are not doing what we are doing. There are many points on which we score well, for which we can be a model. I did not say that we cannot do better, we can always do more, but the Pact is consistent and coherent with our existing legislation, European legislation, our existing practice and our existing policies. If we read the text correctly and interpret it fairly, I do not see that we will have a problem with it. It may encourage us to do more in certain areas, not for more migrants, but for the 22 objectives. My example of speed was an absurd example, precisely to demonstrate that the whole philosophy of the Pact is not legally binding. One cannot give a choice, one cannot say that we will choose from different actions....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It wouldn't be serious if a magistrate did. Mr Dallemagne, you asked me if we had received any alerts from the firm. No, I welcome the cooperation that I have had with both the Foreign Office and the firm. I've received injunctions. Red lines have been defined. I was told that if certain points were to be found in the text it could not be approved, but we managed to remove those red lines. At the end of the negotiations, I did not receive any more signals before Chancellor Sebastian Kurz's statement. Mr Dewinter, as far as the review mechanism is concerned, the international migration forum already exists, under a different name, being High-Level Migration Forum. Indeed, that forum brings people together on a global scale every four years. The philosophy here, with long debates, is not that of peer review. That is not even like the 2030 Agenda. Imagine China deciding and saying in June: 'We can join the consensus'. So a country that is so touchy about its sovereignty as China has immediately accepted the text. China will not accept, for the rest of the international community, its assessment of what they are doing on migration. Here that lies more in the philosophy of the exchange of good practices. Belgium can say that it has a good law on human trafficking and how it does it to protect migrants. Either that Minister De Croo has a nice project to reduce the cost of remittances. Or how our Secretary of State conducts information campaigns. All these practices are in the text. We can say what we all do and in that sense it is an exchange of good practices, to be a source of inspiration for the others or to seek inspiration from others. About freedom of speech. That too is a long debate. I am simply saying that what is in the text contains a political commitment to combat racism and xenophobia. Are we in agreement with that or not? I leave it to you to see whether a law against xenophobia, racism and anti-Semitism restricts freedom of expression and the press. It is a long debate, but the text says nothing more than that. He does not say, as some say, that it would be forbidden to criticize migrants or to emphasize a negative aspect. On the contrary, the text clearly states that there is a commitment to an objective debate based on facts. Then we can and dare to say negative things. It is therefore directed against racism and xenophobia. On the question of whether it is logical that Belgium should withdraw after six months of active negotiations and active participation, my answer is no. That's where refining the process is possible. In my capacity as a diplomat, I regret that. I'd rather be given difficult instructions in advance. Then I know what I have to fight for and can immediately assess whether or not my negotiations are a success. Once the negotiation process has been concluded and we cannot change the text anymore, that is a process that we can certainly refine. The last point was the concrete slope. What can we do now? For Marrakesh, that's binary. Either we go to Marrakesh or we don't go. After all, the Marrakesh Conference is more of a symbolic step, which was intended to confirm political support. For what? The final draft is now an outcome document. It is a UN document that we cannot change anymore. No one dared propose reopening the negotiations. That's out of the question. We have a text that we do not sign when we go to Marrakesh. We will not sign the text. It's not about an international treaty. It's a political commitment. It's symbolic. The session will begin with an approval of the text. All attendees accept the text. Period. After that, anyone can make their intervention. What's possible is this. There is the Swiss and the Italian solutions. A parliamentary debate must be held first. We do not have time to do so before Marrakesh. So we are not going to Marrakesh, but we are not excluding the adoption of the text at a later date at the General Assembly. The text will be tabled at the General Assembly as a resolution or a motion for a resolution. That will be voted on. The United Nations prefers unanimity by consensus. In this case, this will not be possible and the text will therefore be voted on. At that time, the Member States can vote against what the United States will do and explain why they are voting against. They can abstain, too. I have heard that Austria, for example, will do so. They can also vote yes, with or without an interpretive position or explanation. Those are the slopes we have. I don't see many other possibilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u31	Mr Ambassador, thank you very much for your statement and for your detailed answers to the questions. I suggest that we proceed with our hearing now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u32	Mr Bodson, may I urge you to answer the question about the DVD and family reunification?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u33	I'm not sure how it happened. The chapter on family reunification was in the original text, but in a language that was too strong, which could limit our freedom. So the DVZ has requested that that be adjusted. I don't find the document right now, but the sentence was "to hold the right of family." The text was stronger. The DVZ then asked for a more nuanced text. Belgium gives the right to family reunification; we do not ignore it. We impose conditions, for example, that people should speak the language, that they should have a reasonable wager. In short, we have asked for an adjustment and now there is a proposed wording, a weakening of the text, in the final version. Is that clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u35	Thank you again, Mr. Ambassador. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Fernand Cologneer, a lawyer at the Brussels Bar. I would ask Mr Cologneer and all the following speakers to be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u36	Mr President, I would like to thank the committee for inviting me to this hearing. I have prepared a text which will probably be distributed. I will sum it up, but I am actually referring you to the text, which is the official document. I recommend that you also read the footnotes in the text. The President asked me to confirm that I do not receive any compensation or any other compensation for this appearance. I'm confirming that. The second question was to confirm that I had not cooperated in the text. I'll confirm that, too. I shall begin with a preliminary remark. It is perfectly possible not to be in favour of this migration pact and yet to be in favour of a migrant-friendly or even migration-friendly policy. That distinction needs to be made more clearly and is at the basis of my speech. I am not speaking about migration policy or immigration policy. I will talk about the legal significance of the technique used in this pact. For me, this pact is primarily about the allocation of powers and power. It is a legal instrument and not an isolated political or diplomatic instrument. That is very important as such. Migration is, as it were, just a side-effect. I'm overreacting a little, but not that much. This pact and the technique of such a pact are part of the transformation of classical international law into a global law, from an international order based on sovereign and legally equal states to a global governance order, constructed around a global constitution of "human rights and fundamental rights which eliminates the distinction between intra-state, inter-state and super-state." Human rights, which in my view is one of the major misunderstandings in this debate, we need to understand functionally systemically rather than content in this context. Global governance offers the opportunity to intervene on the basis of global human rights, the constitution of global governance, anywhere, whenever and in any domain. After all, that is their system function. I am not talking about content at this point, because nobody, in the first place, is opposed to respect for everyone's human dignity. Human rights, however, have a functional meaning, a system meaning. This is called the process of transnationalisation. In my text I have included several references to the transnational legal process, as it is also mentioned in the title. That's not some marginal theory, it's mainstream. I refer, for example, to a common knowledge of Professor Wouters, myself and perhaps some others, especially Professor Harold Koh, former dean of the Yale School and chief legal advisor of the US Department of State. He has described and strongly encourages that process. You will find the references and the link in my text. This global governance is an ideological model that one can be for or against. I believe that this model has a number of constitutional problems under Belgian law. Global governance is an ideological model with its supporters and opponents, and although it is a constitutional problem, it is not a priority illegitim. That ideological model does not result from any law of nature or moral law. Global governance is also qualitatively different from international cooperation, let alone an appeal for international cooperation, as I have heard on the Pact that it would be an appeal for international cooperation. Well, such statements do not help the cause. In this evolution, this migration pact is a new step. The Pact is very important to negotiate between states, but it is not a treaty. The states will not become parties. This Pact will be adopted as a United Nations resolution, in the General Assembly. As a pact, the weight is greater than that of an ordinary resolution. The Pact is approved in the United Nations by resolution. Once approved, United Nations institutions take over. For example, the creation of a UN Network on Migration is a new institution, formally decided. States, which have done the preparatory work, are, as it were, taking a big step aside and leaving it to those transnational actors, in the framework of that transnational legal process for which I refer you to my text. The migration pact is not a treaty and, of course, it does not bind the states directly and immediately. That is self-evident, for it is not a treaty. However, there are very heavy legal consequences, as it has been incorporated into the body of international law since the adoption of the Pact. Resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly also have legal, international law value and significance. Firstly, they can codify or bring about international customary law. Today a great deal of customary law is being established and it will not be long before this international law becomes customary. That can happen very quickly these days. Secondly, that approval is the start of a transnational legal process, the active involvement of all of the non-state actors in this process described in the text of non-state actors by the creation of court cases, bringing test cases, precedents and cross-references to other components of international and supranational law. This is actively encouraged. I am constantly hearing the saying that the migration pact does not go beyond the human rights that already exist. Two cases one. If that is the case, it is binding by definition, because the human rights already in existence are legally binding on the international community. So, if this migration pact does not go beyond existing human rights, then proof has been provided that it is effectively binding. It's that simple. What is the legal technique used? That is that of human rights and fundamental rights as a transmission channel. The Migration Pact is full of references and references to fundamental legal instruments, which are thus confirmed as a source of law. These instruments also do not include conventions ratified by Belgium, such as the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families. Human rights, the term says it, are about rights. When it comes to rights, of course, judges have the final say. That's the obvious thing. That doesn't have to mean activism. It's about rights, human rights. Judges have the final say. So that's a power allocation, not activism. In addition, human rights are at the top of the legal pyramid in our system and so they are at the top of all other standards. Human rights are therefore functionally systemic highways that can be used for the ultimate settlement of all kinds of claims by supranational bodies, institutions and courts. Remember that in our legal order, international law prevails over national law, including the Constitution, although the Constitutional Court sometimes feels otherwise. That's still the principle. This is not the case in China and in a number of other states which will approve this pact. This migration pact, which thus belongs to the corpus of international law, i.e. with priority over national law, offers more than enough opportunities to formulate human rights, i.e. ultimately international law, with priority in many areas. After all, the migration pact boasts that it is holistic and comprehensive. So that's the typical global governance speech. The migration pact - we have already heard it - is, with all due respect, the result of a diplomatic conference, on which I have absolutely no criticism, but legally one can derive anything and about the opposite from the migration pact. In the end, the question is who decides on the final interpretation. The migration pact says: "We commit (...) We will draw from the following actions", inderdaad niet allemaal; "We commit to fulfil the objectives and commitments outlined. We will implement…" Anyway, it gives a lawyer more than enough resources to base claims on them and, above all, to argue that fundamental rights are at stake. And then one goes to the top of the legal pyramid. I refer to footnote 17. What health care should be given to migrants? These are basic services, but I have included a quote from Minister Ducarme. It seems that what Minister Ducarme says there is not really in line with the provision in the migration pact on basic services. In the end, it's multi-interpretable. One can say one thing and one can say another. And finally, of course, a judge will decide on this on the basis of the whole body of international and supranational law. You will understand that we will have a self-referenced system here, which will no longer be understood at national level by democratically elected people. After all, if something is sopranationalised and reasoned, it automatically takes precedence over any provision of national law. If you approve of that technique, you'll actually give us blank cheques legally. This technique is not so different from the techniques used in treaties that have been extensively discussed here, for example CETA or TTIP. It is not clear to me why we are either in favour of CETA and against the migration pact, or against CETA and against the migration pact. It's basically about the same mechanisms. An important conclusion is therefore that the legal effects of the migration pact will be largely independent of whether a State approves the migration pact or not. They will be largely independent of that. Once approved by the United Nations General Assembly, it becomes part of the international legal order, with possible effect in the intra-State legal order, regardless of whether a state approves the migration pact or not. In my opinion, therefore, the key question is not whether one goes to Marrakesh or not, whether one takes the plane or not or whatever; the key question is the relationship in our legal system between international law and national law. That is the key question. At the moment, we have an automatic direct priority for everything that is international law under national law. Then there is the interpretative note. In the case of a treaty, there is Article 31 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties. In the case of a treaty, an interpretative note becomes part of the context that the court will consider when deciding. An interpretative note cannot go against the ordinary meaning of terms in a treaty, unless all parties give it a particular meaning. However, the migration pact is not even a treaty. We want to exclude the states as much as possible as an actor. An interpretative note will therefore not be so important, especially if that interpretative note would also be considered contrary to the correct interpretation of fundamental rights under international law, inspired by the migration pact. Such an interpretative note will then also be overruled by international law. On the other hand, the agreed migration pact becomes part of international law. There is therefore something to be said for such a note, if it is sufficiently broad-based and precise, solid, detailed and motivated and is not only approved by a parliament or a government, but is actually added to the Pact by Belgium, the EU or a number of EU Member States. That is not yet a guarantee of success. The courts and supranational institutions which ultimately decide on concrete claims take them into consideration or not, find them compatible with international law or not. In any case, one can develop the argument that the Pact becomes a part of international law by adopting it in the UN and as far as an interpretative note is concerned, it does not harm or harm, which is a possible argument. I also refer in my text to the note from the German Bundestag, but I have also read that this is actually only an appeal to the Federal Government to do one thing and leave the other. Then I have my doubts about the legal value of that interpretative note from the Bundestag. If I understand correctly, it will not be added to the pact. With all due respect, the letter from Secretary of State Harbers to the House of Representatives is of such a nature that I cannot comment further. Something like the migration pact would be much less controversial and much more a single diplomatic, political text if we did not have the automatic priority of any standard of international law under national law in our national legal order. Nor does it seem to me to be legal that a treaty with very specific commitments entered into by a party to a treaty that ratifies it should be given the same weight as a UN resolution. Given the context of global governance, it seems to me to be the most normal thing in the world for us to rethink the doctrine of the automatic primacy of international law in national law. Furthermore, I am really going beyond the scope of the migration pact........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We may have different views on this, but it seems to me that they should be known and that we should be able to discuss it. There are also various opinions and judicial philosophies about the range of policies that should be left in relation to fundamental rights. I am not saying that one is necessarily better than the other, but there are different opinions and judicial philosophies on this, and it seems to me that at a time when such supranational and high courts are going to play such an important role in supranational constitutionality, this should be the least democratic requirement. Maybe that's a role for a new senate. I have one more comment. It is correct, Mr Ambassador, I knew that even when I was in this House, the text does not speak of actionable commitments, but after my speech you will have understood that this really does not matter. In the forums to which even the text still refers, there is still talk of actionable commitments and, moreover, the text does not say that there are no actionable commitments. Even if the text were to say that there are no actionable commitments, it could still be said that, as the text does not go beyond existing human rights, so I hear, existing human rights always involve actionable commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u37	I now give the floor to Anne Lagerwall, Professor and Member of the Centre for International Law of the ULB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a professor of international law at the Free University of Brussels. So I was invited a few days ago to participate in these hearings. I do not hide from you that I was a little surprised at the sudden need to obtain legal clarification on a text on which everyone agrees that it is non-legally binding. In any case, experts in public international law agree that this is a non-legally binding text. This is something that Belgium knew at the time of the negotiation. This is something that Belgium knew at the time the document was finalized. This is something Belgium knew when it undertook to sign it. In my view, from a legal point of view, nothing has changed since then. But if you consider it useful, I will try to clarify the legal scope of this Covenant and answer the question of whether the Covenant creates obligations for States today and whether it is likely to create obligations for States in the future. My answer to this question is as follows: the Global Compact does not create obligations for States today for reasons that I will first set out, and it is very doubtful that it will create them in the future, for reasons that I will set out in a second phase. First, the Global Compact does not create obligations for States. As you have already heard, this is not an international treaty by which one State undertakes to respect certain international obligations vis-à-vis another State. Nor is it a treaty by which States recognize, to certain categories of persons, rights that such persons may require to be respected. The Global Compact aims to create a framework for international cooperation among States that have recognized migration as phenomena that affect all States and that these issues need to be addressed collectively together. When we look at the text, we see that it sets out the ambitions and guiding principles that will guide this framework for cooperation. It defines objectives for the latter. It is true that it lists so-called commitments, but these are not legal obligations that could incur the responsibility of the State that would default on those commitments. It is, I believe, an opinion that is widely shared by the community, by internationalists and, in particular, by the director of the Max-Planck Institute in Heidelberg, Professor Anne Peters. The Institute still enjoys special authority in international law. It analysed the Covenant and made it very clear that "all the factors indicate that these are not legal commitments". And that is what the Global Compact means when it states in paragraphs 7 and 15 (b) that it is "a non-legally binding framework for cooperation". A fortiori, the Global Compact does not create obligations for States towards migrants or refugees in addition to their obligations under international law. It is true that the Covenant states that it is based on a series of international human rights conventions, including paragraph 2. It recalls that refugees and migrants enjoy the same universal fundamental freedoms and human rights that must be respected, protected and exercised in all circumstances. That's paragraph 4. But these are obligations that already need to be respected by States that have ratified this set of international conventions, obligations that will still have to be respected by States whether they sign this Global Compact or not. The Covenant does not in any case define new obligations or rights. It's not his job. In particular, it does not define rights or obligations for States to accept migrants. As has been recalled, the Covenant even recognizes national sovereignty as one of the guiding principles of the framework for cooperation that it establishes and reaffirms, in paragraph 15 (c), "the sovereign right of States to define their national migration policy and their right to manage migration within their jurisdiction in accordance with international law". It seems, in short, quite obvious that the Covenant does not create legal obligations for States in its present form. Would it be possible in the future for the Global Compact to create obligations for States? That is the second question I would like to address. That seems very doubtful. What can happen in international law, and what sometimes happens, is that the commitments set out in a text originally conceived as a non-binding text become later international obligations of a legal nature, but it is not a process of transformation that is established in a natural way or that would be binding on States. This is generally due to the fact that these commitments are incorporated into an instrument to which States recognize a mandatory character. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights has already been mentioned, and I find this to be a good example. This Declaration contains articles with fairly clear rules such as "All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights" or "Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person", but it was stated that this was a common ideal to be achieved. These rights have, at some point, become binding on all States, mainly because they have been incorporated into international treaties, in the 1966 New York Covenants, in the end, more and more States have ratified. However, this transformation does not occur systematically and rarely occurs immediately. There are many declarations and recommendations that have sometimes defined principles, objectives of a political nature, and that have never become international obligations. Sometimes they have become so, but through a series of stages that have taken time. I am thinking in particular of the 1972 Stockholm Declaration, which enshrines the principles of environmental protection. Here, too, there was a whole series of principles according to which States should protect the environment. It was felt that this was a question requiring a collective answer, but this statement as such did not really produce legal obligations. These obligations arose only after being first incorporated into the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 1992. Real precise obligations emerged only with the Kyoto Protocol in 1997 or with the Paris Climate Agreement in 2015, with certain limits. The Global Compact may be a milestone in such a process. It may one day lead to the adoption of obligations for States, or perhaps not. It is a process that is not obvious, that depends on the will of the States and that I can assure you that it is rarely very fast and very immediate. Does that mean that the Global Compact is devoid of legal significance? I don't think so either. The Global Compact sets out a series of commitments by States to try to achieve certain objectives listed in the Global Compact. Perhaps some of these objectives or commitments could be taken into account in interpreting, clarifying obligations but obligations arising from international treaties, other sources of international law or possibly national rights of States. There is one possibility: that of sometimes mobilising non-binding instruments for the purpose of interpreting the law. It cannot be excluded either for the Global Compact or for any non-binding instrument. And these are instruments that are not rare! There is nothing very new about that. Since becoming a member of the United Nations, Belgium has visited the General Assembly. And it is dozens and dozens of resolutions that are adopted every year. One might wonder if they can be mobilized. I do not know what could be done with the Global Compact in the future. I do not yet read the future, but in any case if we look at the past and the judicial practice of Belgian courts and tribunals, this remains rare. If this happens, in my opinion, it will happen fairly marginally. And the use of "Pact" terminology has no bearing on this. This remains a non-binding instrument such as General Assembly resolutions in general. It is only in some very specific cases that elements of General Assembly resolutions may be international obligations. But it is mainly because these resolutions sometimes contain obligations that exist in treaties or are customary. Once again, custom is a source of law that arises from State practice. Nevertheless, it must be shown that States adopt a practice that indicates that they are complying with obligations with the firm belief that they are complying with international obligations. I hear that there are sometimes fears that this will join the corpus of international law when it is known that the latter has primacy over national law. When it is said that international law has primacy over national law, it is not the whole body of international law that is being sought, but again the obligations that are legally binding on States. When this principle was established through this decision of the Court of Cassation in the Le Ski judgment, it was not a contradiction between Belgian law and a General Assembly resolution or a recommendation that was not legally binding. It was between an obligation that was mandatory under European law and an obligation that was mandatory under Belgian law. And because we were faced with two legal obligations, there was a conflict, and when there is a conflict of norms, we need to know what prevails. But the idea of primacy can only be understood if there is a conflict. And if you have an instrument that is not binding, it cannot, by definition, conflict with our Belgian law, which is binding. In conclusion, the Covenant is not an international treaty, it does not create legal obligations for States to date. It is very doubtful that it creates legal obligations in the future, in any case in this form. For me, it is an effort to cooperate between States, an effort to resolve international problems of an economic, social, intellectual or humanitarian nature. It is this definition that is adopted by international cooperation in the Charter of the United Nations. It is a practice which is quite common for Belgium to participate in these multilateral efforts. I believe that Belgium has a fairly long tradition of being present in these international forums. It is not up to me to say whether it is desirable or not, but I can say that there is no risk, from the point of view of international law, that by signing this Covenant Belgium will be subject to international obligations to which it would not be subject to to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u39	Thank you very much, Professor. I now pass the floor to Professor Pierre d'Argent, an ordinary professor at the Chair of Public International Law at the Faculty of Leuven.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank you for your invitation. I am very honoured to address you this morning. As the President said, I am an ordinary professor at UCL, I am an associate of the Institute of International Law, I am a lawyer at the Brussels Bar. I would like to make it clear, as we are asked to do, that I have not received any compensation in connection with the Covenant. I am used to advising States, but no State has consulted me on this issue, nor have I participated in the drafting of the text. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1944 Albert Camus wrote: "To name an object is to add to the misfortune of this world". I think some of the debates we have been seeing in the past few days are wrong, because the words used are misleading. It has been said that the Covenant is neither a treaty nor an international convention. It does not create an obligation under international law between States. As has been recalled, the Covenant states in its § 7 that it is a framework for cooperation between States, under the aegis of the United Nations, and specifies that this framework for cooperation is "legally non-binding." If you read it, you will find no final clause that would provide for its ratification, entry into force, etc. These are final clauses that are found in the Treaties. Nothing like that with this Covenant. If it had been a treaty, you would have needed a bill of consent under section 167 of the Constitution. However, there was no bill of consent; there could not be one, because the Covenant was not a treaty. And, because it is not, it is therefore wrong to say that it should be signed or ratified. To say so, as is often understood, is to use a vocabulary specific to international treaties. But since the Covenant is not a treaty, this vocabulary is inappropriate. We probably remember the CETA saga when we said, "Sign, sign!" In this case, however, this verb is absolutely inappropriate. No government is called upon to sign any document, as Ambassador Bodson recalled. Furthermore, was Belgium called upon to approve the Covenant? Again, the verb seems wrong to me, at least in the immediate future, when it comes to the Marrakech meeting. Why? Because, according to the rules of procedure of the Marrakech Conference, the Covenant is to be adopted by consensus. We don't say "unanimity"; we say "consensus". In United Nations practice, however, consensus is the absence of a vote. In Marrakech, there will normally be no vote. Whether or not the Covenant should be approved, which would be adopted by consensus, that is, without any State present formally objecting to it. The effect of this adoption is simple and, in fact, minimal: it will be to solemnly conclude the text of the Covenant at a high-level diplomatic meeting. A few weeks later, the text will be submitted to the United Nations General Assembly in New York for formal adoption. There will then be a vote and, as usual, each State will be able to vote in favour or against the text. He will also be able to abstain. On the occasion of this vote in New York, each State may, if necessary, explain its vote and make a statement if it so wishes. Whether Belgium is present in Marrakech or not, whether Belgium is voting in favour or against the Covenant in New York later, or whether it is abstaining, the Pact, ladies and gentlemen, will be adopted. It will become a United Nations reference document for migration governance. Even States that formally oppose the Covenant will remain member States of the United Nations and will face them in the future with United Nations agencies that will engage in dialogue with national authorities on the basis of the Covenant because, for United Nations agencies, the Covenant will serve as a reference document. Since the Covenant is not a legally binding treaty, the national authorities will obviously be free to play the game of the Covenant or to refuse to engage in it, but this is not a matter for this Government. It is not even, ladies and gentlemen, a question for the government that will come out of the ballot box in 2019. This is a question for all future governments. Among the catalogue of measures advocated and proposed by the Pact for Multilateral Management of Migration, which ones will they choose to implement? The Covenant leaves the successive governments of each State free to choose their policy in this regard. There are no international obligations created by the Covenant which would be enforceable against the Belgian State and which would bind successive governments in time - because that is the nature of an international treaty. For each of the twenty-three objectives it sets out, the Covenant lists various possible measures. With regard to these possible measures, he said that the States, and I quote the text in English because here too the words count, Ambassador Bodson reminded them: the states "will draw from the following actions". In my view, this sentence has been very poorly translated into French in the United Nations by the expression: States intend to "do this or do this". What this French translation completely fails to communicate is that each state will draw (draw from), from the catalogue of measures, those which it agrees with in order to achieve a particular objective. As Ambassador Bodson has said, these are the objectives on which your attention must be focused, knowing that in order to carry out their policies, successive governments will be able to choose from the measures proposed to States, the measures they will find appropriate at the time they decide. Each State will choose one or the other as it wishes; the measures may change according to the governments in place because § 15 of the Covenant - my colleague Anne Lagerwall has just recalled - reaffirms "the sovereign right of States to define their national migration policy and their right to manage migration within their competence. States may, within the limits of their sovereign jurisdiction, distinguish between regular and irregular migration." The forum that will be set up, which already exists but changes its name, will meet every four years. Its aim is to inform, to debate one another without any government being legally obliged to attend this forum – if it wants to push it, it can do so; it is not very polite but it happens even among the most polite diplomats in the world. States will be called upon by United Nations bodies to participate in this forum. They will then be able to inform their peers about what they have achieved with the Pact so far. If the Covenant is not legally binding, then I come to another question, is it of no legal importance? Definitely not! I would like to repeat here the words of Anne Peters that Anne Lagerwall has just quoted. She is the director of the Max Planck in Heidelberg and is not a right-wing person at all. I know her very well. I don't think I'm going to move forward by pointing it out. She's a serious lawyer. Elle this: "The Compact will not generate legally binding obligations... but it is not legally irrelevant." Why is the Covenant not legally irrelevant? Because as an instrument adopted by the United Nations – whatever Belgium does, I insist on this point, the Covenant will be adopted – the Covenant is an instrument of so-called soft law. It is an instrument that gives direction and, as such, could indeed – it should not be naive – be used before national courts as a reference text to influence, to try to convince the judge to retain a particular interpretation of a rule of true law. It is used as an argument for pleading, in an attempt to convince the judge to go one way rather than another. I'll come and explain it with an example. But first of all, I would like to point out that this use of the Covenant, if it is indeed possible, remains, in my opinion, very punctual and very limited. Why? Because the Pact is above all, as I have recalled, and as everyone agrees, an instrument of multilateral governance and a framework for inter-State cooperation. In this sense, it is addressed first and foremost to States. It is not intended for individuals. As it is not a treaty, it does not create, in any case, new rights for migrants whose migrants could demand respect in court. The Covenant repeats in some respects, as Mr. Keuleneer said, elements of international law that already exist. The devil is always in detail. The problem is how he repeats it. That is where the interpretative question can arise. I'll take an example. You all know the obligation of non-refoulement. You all remember, ladies and gentlemen, the Sudanese episode. This obligation of non-refoulement is indisputable. It is enshrined in the Geneva Convention, in respect of refugees, but also in the European Convention on Human Rights, in its famous article 3, and in the United Nations Convention against Torture. The Covenant recalls the rule that it is prohibited to repatriate migrants to countries where, I quote paragraph 37, "they are at a real and foreseeable risk of losing their lives, being subjected to torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment". Until then, nothing more normal. This is in full conformity with international law and our obligations, which are indisputable. The problem is that paragraph 37, instead of stopping "to be subjected to torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment", goes on to add: "or to suffer any other irreparable harm, in accordance with our obligations under international law." In other words, this paragraph does not create a new right for migrants, but it seems to give an interpretation of the obligations of international law with regard to non-refoulement, adding a formula which is still quite open, namely "or to suffer any other irreparable harm" (or other irreparable harm). It is not necessary to make a great effort of imagination to guess what inventive lawyers – and I assure you that at university, they are trained for it – can do with such an indefinite addition. What does "any other irreparable harm" mean? If, for example, someone is no longer able to practise a profession once they return to their country, or if that person is no longer able to study, could it not be argued that he or she will suffer irreparable harm? Should it not, in other words, be made clear that the "irreparable harm" that the repatriated person may suffer must be an injury to his or her physical integrity? That probably goes without saying. But that goes even better by clarifying it. If the Covenant has not said so – and I do not think anyone should be blamed for not saying it, it may be regrettable that the Covenant has not been as precise – it is because it has simply not been conceived – I come back to my point of departure – as an international treaty. It was therefore not negotiated with the precision of an international treaty. There are still approximations and inaccuracies in the text, which, it is true, are as many open doors as would probably have been better closed. The good news, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that, in my view, it is quite possible to close these in the name of legal certainty by providing, in a statement of clarification made on the margins of the vote to be held in New York, the missing details of this text. Such clarification would in no way constitute reservations since, once again, the phrase "reserve" should be reserved for international treaties and not for non-legally binding instruments. It seems to me better to do this, to keep this multilateral governance instrument under control rather than to squander it and let it live in an uncontrolled way. Since, in any event, this instrument will live, it will be a United Nations document and Belgium will certainly remain a member of the Universal Organization. For the rest, ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr Keuleneer for taking so seriously the fantasies of some university professors about global governance and global law, but I would like him to know and that you also know that there are still smaller academics who do not think in the same way as those colleagues dreaming of global law and that serious lawyers know and teach the difference between law and lawlessness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u41	I now give the floor to Professor Desmet of the Faculty of Law and Criminology of Ghent University.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you have just heard, I am teaching Migration Law. It is in this capacity that I want to share my analysis of the text of this migration pact. I would also like to confirm that I did not receive any compensation or was involved in any preparatory consultation in any way. To start, there is no human right to migration. This migration compact also does not create any. Under international law, everyone has the right to leave their own country. There's a right to emigration. But it belongs to the national sovereignty of states to determine who is admitted to the territory, who is allowed to stay, and who is to leave the country because of irregular residence. There is no right to immigration. This migration compact also confirms, as we have heard, several times the national sovereignty of states to determine their national migration policies. This migration compact is not legally binding. Several factors have shown this. First of all, as we have already heard, the text explicitly states that this document is non-legally binding. The use of the term 'commit', which may mean more commitment, is also in contrast with some other stronger terms that we sometimes see in international law, such as 'we shall', which expresses a stronger obligation. We also see it through the process. In Marrakesh, Member States will confirm their political commitment. The migration pact will be adopted, not signed, not ratified, because it is not a treaty. It will be included in a resolution of the General Assembly. A resolution of the General Assembly is not binding, as is expressly stated in Article 13 of the UN Charter, because the General Assembly has only the power to initiate studies and make recommendations, and not to issue legally binding standards in itself. The parties also explicitly do not intend to create legally binding standards, which is also an element in the possible subsequent creation of international customary law. Nor have any sanctions been established in the event of non-compliance. In that sense, I believe there are parallels to the Sustainable Development Agenda that has been built up in a similar way. There is also a vision, shared principles and commitments. A number of objectives are set out, a mechanism of implementation, follow-up, of review is foreseen. In the Agenda for Sustainable Development, the states have already committed themselves to working together to ensure safe, orderly and regular migration, with respect for human rights. In short, the core of this migration compact is already in this text. For example, the Sustainable Development Agenda also uses much stronger language. According to that agenda, states commit themselves to ending poverty in all dimensions by 2030, much stronger language than what we read in the Migration Pact. The agenda does not explicitly mention, such as the migration pact, that the text is not legally binding. However, there seems to be far fewer questions about the Agenda when it comes to possible consequences compared to sometimes heavier commitments, one might think. What are states committed to through the Migration Pact? Now, the framework for cooperation consists of 23 objectives that are implemented through commitment. There are then several actions that, as the text itself says, are relevant policy instruments or are regarded as good practices. The text of the Migration Pact also explicitly states that States are committed to the objectives and commitments of the Global Compact. This is confirmed, as mentioned above, by the phrase "To realize this commitment, we will draw from the following actions." The migration pact therefore offers a choice package of actions. These are opportunities for Member States to choose and shape the migration pact, explicitly stating that national policies, national priorities are taken into account, and that a distinction can be made between regular and irregular migration. It follows that the debate on whether or not states approve the migration pact should focus on the level of objectives and commitments. The question arises as to the extent to which these commitments and objectives contain many new elements. In a first exercise, I made a non-exhaustive feedback to existing human rights obligations and existing European law standards, such as the family reunification directive and the Return Directive. Through the ratification of human rights treaties, states have voluntarily committed themselves, precisely on the basis of their national sovereignty, to respect the rights contained therein of everyone who is subject to their jurisdiction, including migrants. The Human Rights Committee, for example, which monitors compliance with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, explicitly states that the rights in that Convention apply to everyone, regardless of their nationality and their statelessness. Human rights are minimum standards that set out the guidelines within which this migration policy can take shape and therefore the migration pact proposes a number of possible actions to achieve human rights within the migration context. Another element is that almost all of the objectives, apart from the objective 22 on social security, are already included in the New York Declaration on refugees and migrants, as far as I have been able to ascertain. The essence of the objectives is already set out in the New York Declaration, which has already been adopted by the General Assembly, also by Belgium. These objectives can often already be found in other soft-law instruments. The newer elements are mainly at the level of the actions which present themselves mainly as opportunities. Perhaps an example at the level of the actions. If the European Court of Human Rights wants to take a basic position against child detention, which it does not do at the moment, it does not need the migration pact and can refer it to the Committee on the Rights of the Child or to recommendations of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly, and to many other human rights actors such as the Commissioner for Human Rights, for whom detention of children can never be in the best interests of the child and constitutes a violation of children's rights. In this sense, many of the objectives can be traced back to existing human rights obligations to which we are linked, or can be found in other soft-law instruments, especially the New York Declaration to which reference could also be made. The objectives have also been formulated in a very cautious way. In terms of impact on the case-law, judges may refer to non-binding documents to further the interpretation of legally binding obligations. However, they cannot be the only basis for deciding on a breach of a particular right. There is always a need for a specific legal obligation, and one cannot and will not only decide on an infringement on the basis of a non-legal source. This is also reflected, for example, in a judgment in the caselaw of the Council of Foreign Ministers. I am not aware of any judgments in which the Council of Foreign Ministers will grant a decision by the Department of Foreign Affairs on migration or recognition of refugee status, solely on the basis of a non-binding text. Even the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which according to a number of lawyers in international law has meanwhile evolved into international customary law, is not accepted by the Council of Foreigners' Disputes, with reference to the case law of the Council of State, as a source of legal obligations. The European Court of Human Rights is also always involved in the assessment of a possible violation of human rights in a migration context. Finally, what is the rather non-legal significance of the Pact? It is often said that especially the destination countries will have to do business, that initiatives are expected from them. This can indeed be confirmed on the basis of a very rudimentary and schematic performance. The implementation of the Pact could be expected to require more action and initiative from the destination countries. However, if we ask ourselves in whose interest the objectives are, this table again shows in a simplified way that the migration pact is primarily in the interests of the migrants themselves. The goals have that people centered approach from which the migration pact also departs and what it states as the first guiding principle, being that it starts from the people. In addition, however, many of the objectives of trafficking in human beings, of trafficking in human beings, of return, of ensuring that countries of origin give identity documents to their nationals and so on. If we simplify it all a bit, it may even be in the interests of the countries of destination rather than the countries of origin. What are the possible consequences of the migration pact without, of course, having a glass ball? It allows States to carry out more joint management and management of migration, to streamline regular migration and to address irregular migration and its negative effects. In addition, countries of origin and countries of destination share the same framework. This is the first time that we have tried to address such a global challenge at global level. Previously, it was mainly bilateral, regional processes that were also much less transparent. Since many of the objectives are actually a concreteisation of existing human rights standards to which we were already linked, this could lead to a greater realisation of human rights in a migration context. Finally, I would also like to point out that Belgium is not only a country of destination, but also a country of origin. Belgians also emigrate and are migrants elsewhere. They are therefore also involved in the migration pact from that perspective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u43	Thank you, Professor Desmet. I give the floor to Professor Jan Wouters, Professor of International Law and International Organisations at KU Leuven.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to make the same statement as my other colleagues. I will briefly mention four points: the status of the compact, whether binding or not, the impact on Belgium and the status of a possible declaration. Firstly, the overall compact for safe, orderly and regular migration will indeed be adopted as a so-called outcome document by the Intergovernmental Conference, which will meet next week, on 10 and 11 December 2018 in Marrakesh. This will already happen on Monday 10 December 2018 during the plenary opening session of the conference, which is a symbolic moment. It is precisely on that day that the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is celebrated. The United Nations General Assembly has indicated that this conference will be held. I quote "at the highest possible political level, including Heads of State or Government. So there will indeed be high delegations. The compact will then be reinforced. The English term is "endorsed" or "endorsement." This will be done by the General Assembly in a summary resolution, on 19 December 2018. As has been pointed out on many occasions, it is not an international treaty, nor an international agreement or an international agreement, despite its name. It is a typical example of soft law, as the United Nations produce a lot of it. We can give you many examples of this. There's nothing unusual about that either. In newer areas of international law, soft law is an important technique for building a consensus on certain principles between states in a legally non-binding manner. That is, by the way, a quote from a manual that I wrote together with my colleague Marc Bossuyt, entitled Fundamentals of international law. The compact self explicitly states that it establishes a legally non-binding cooperation framework:non-legally binding cooperative framework. Nevertheless, two elements deserve particular attention. Firstly, the compact is not a single document. It should be seen as part of a much wider process of policy coordination. For example, the compact is in line with the 2030 UN Agenda for Sustainable Development, in particular target 10.7 of the Sustainable Development Goals. This is an agenda that was adopted by consensus by the General Assembly in September 2015. There are other documents. The so-called Addis Ababa Action Agenda for Financing Development, adopted in July 2015, was also adopted by consensus of the General Assembly. There is also the Declaration of the High-level Dialogue on International Migration and Development. It dates from October 2013 and was also adopted by consensus. Last but not least, it has already been mentioned as the New York Declaration for Refugees and Migrants of September 2016, also adopted by consensus by the General Assembly. Secondly, it is important, as some of you have mentioned, to stress that it provides for compact agreements on joint implementation and a follow-up mechanism. The implementation part states that there is a need for concerted efforts at global, regional, national and local level. The States are committed to implementing it compactly at domestic, regional and global level, and through stronger bilateral, regional and multilateral cooperation. So there is a great deal of cooperation commitment involved. The follow-up will take place within the framework of the United Nations, following a state-led approach and with the participation of all relevant stakeholders. It has already been mentioned that the current four-year High-level Dialogue on International Migration and Development of the General Assembly will be upgraded to an International Migration Review Forum, which will take place every four years, starting in 2022. Then I would like to say a word about the binding nature of the compact. The compact itself explicitly states that it has no legally binding effect. That was also a very clear demand from the European countries and the European Union during the negotiations. There is a recent factsheet of the European Commission from November 2018, which is available on its website, in which the European Commission explicitly states: "No legal obligations arise under domestic or international law for participating States." In addition, As has already been said, the compact expressly states that it respects the national sovereignty of the countries. It reconfirms I quote "the sovereign right of States to determine their national migration policy and their preliminary to govern migration within their jurisdiction, in conformity with international law." The German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has also published a communication on this subject, concludes from this: "National sovereign rights will neither be curtailed nor transferred. The Global Compact will not be an international agreement and will then have no legal effect on national legal systems." Then something about the consequences for Belgium. The impact of the compact on Belgium, after its adoption next Monday, is both international and domestic. At international level, as I said, there is no legally binding effect in any case. Only in so far as the compact at international level would give rise to the elaboration of one or more international treaty texts would it be possible to obtain legally binding legal effects only in so far as Belgium gives its sovereign consent to be bound by the relevant treaties. There is, of course, another theoretical possibility, namely the progressive establishment of international customary law in the area of migration. At present, however, with a single exception such as the non-refoulement principle, we seem far away. There is, of course, another possibility at international level which has already been considered. International courts could refer to the compact and thus strengthen our country's existing international obligations in their interpretation. This sometimes includes the European Court of Human Rights. There is much to say about that and there is also a whole evolution there, as you have read in De Standaard for the last two days. Indeed, the European Court often quotes non-binding instruments, as well as treaties and national legislation. However, this is usually done in the introductory part of the decisions and, rather exceptionally, in the more operative part of the judgments. I come to the internal legal consequences of the compact. Our country has a monistic tradition of the relationship between international and domestic law. International and national law are officially part of the same legal order. According to this tradition, it is therefore relatively easy for legal practitioners to invoke international standards, including soft law standards, for national courts and courts. It happens all the time. However, it would be wrong to think that the Belgian courts give inappropriate scope to those standards. A sample of the case-law of the Council of State and the Council of Foreign Ministers does indeed appear to indicate that soft law is in no way regarded by those courts as binding, or as a kind of autonomous source of law. For example, case law on guidelines has been drawn up by the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). These are applied in that case-law, but rather to interpret existing concepts, and sometimes to the benefit of the candidate refugee, but also sometimes to the benefit of the government. I come to my final point, the statute for a possible declaration. It is up to each country participating in the Marrakesh Intergovernmental Conference or in the discussions that will result in the ratification resolution of the General Assembly at the beginning of next year to make a statement or not. There are different kinds of explanations. There are so-called position statements, explanations of position in a consensus resolution. There are explanations of vote, explanations or votes when a vote is taken. The Rules of Procedure for the Intergovernmental Conference, which will take place next week in Marrakesh, indeed provide for the possibility of giving a brief explanation of vote before or after the vote, if of course there is a vote. The Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly also provide, of course, for this possibility. As you know, this trail is currently being pursued by the Dutch government, which is planning to give an additional explanation of vote emphasising the preservation of national sovereignty and the non-binding nature of the compact. I would like to make one more point. Such an explanation of vote is not necessarily the same as a so-called interpretative explanation. An interpretative explanation can ultimately be found in the treaty sphere. It is a declaration made by a State that signs or ratifies a treaty, which reflects that State's vision of how a specific treaty provision should be interpreted. This isn't the same here. We are not talking about a treaty here, as Mr d'Argent has said. The statute for such declarations is as follows. At international level, they can be relevant. They are a relevant element for the assessment of state practice and the legal belief of states in the investigation into the formation and existence of rules of international customary law. In a treaty context, an interpretative explanation can also be relevant. For this I refer to what Mr Fernand Cologneer said, among other things, about Article 31 of the Vienna Treaty. On the internal level, in Belgium itself, it is of course possible for the national court to observe such statements as a relevant interpretation that helps to clarify the extent to which Belgium has taken a certain international commitment or not. Now you also know that there is another technique that is currently being applied, particularly that of the German Federal Parliament. It has adopted a resolution, but, as has already been said, it is a resolution addressed to the German Federal Government. That resolution also makes it clear that the Pact does not generate any new legal obligations which could affect German migration legislation or which could be invoked before the German courts and courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u45	Thank you, Professor Wouters. Now, last but not least, Marc Bossuyt, former President of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u46	Thank you, Mr President, for the invitation. I would like to stress that I did not participate in this compact and that I am not paid to be here either. I would also like to thank Ambassador Bodson for his enlightening statement, and I would like to point out that I am certainly not speaking here as former President of the Constitutional Court, but as Professor of International Law at the University of Antwerp, now restless, and that I have 32 years in UN bodies on human rights and have been Commissioner General for Refugees and stateless persons for nine years. After what has already been said here, I risk having to kick in a lot more open doors. The compact of Marrakesh is not a treaty. It is therefore not formally a legally binding text. This was recently confirmed by the President of the UN General Assembly. There's something that really annoys me when it comes to that, and that's the "signing" of the compact. After all, one thing is certain: Belgium will not sign this compact. That is not being signed. Non-binding texts shall not be signed. That compact will be adopted. Whether we are present or not, it will be adopted. I understand the criticisms of colleagues such as Mark Elchardus, Marc De Vos, Leo Neels and others we have heard in the press. Some of these criticisms are indisputablely pertinent. I think it is a good thing that the has led to a wide-ranging discussion. This must allow our people to become aware of the difficulties facing our government in pursuing responsible migration policies. There have been some derailments in that discussion, but the discussion itself has been positive. It is my position, I have already said, in De Standaard on 26 November, that staying away from Marrakesh is not the best response to the criticisms, especially if that is not the attitude of the majority of EU Member States. We must enter into dialogue with the countries of origin and transit and we must make our position clear, because without the cooperation of the countries of origin and transit, it is impossible to control the migration crisis. The compact gives an initial start to this. Efforts, as the title of the compact says, to ensure that migration takes place in a safe, orderly and regular manner, are in itself a commendable objective. The compact is also global, which means that it not only refers to migration as we do, but also to migration in other parts of the world, such as the Gulf States, where the problem is completely different. Nor should we forget that we are only a small minority in the United Nations. There are key points in the compact that are largely new and meet our concerns. I refer to Objective 4, which seeks to ensure that migrants have identity documents, Objective 9 on combating the smuggling of migrants, Objective 10 on combating trafficking in human beings, Objective 21 on cooperation in facilitating return and reintegration and, in particular, point 37 on the obligation of States to take back their own nationals. That last point is of the utmost importance. It is also very important for states to be allowed to distinguish between regular and irregular migration status, as stated in point 15 (c), but this should perhaps be highlighted even more strongly. It might also be appropriate to explain that nothing in the compact limits the sovereign right of states to combat irregular migration. Indeed, the compact contains points which, although largely not new, could be interpreted as a factor which could make it difficult to combat irregular migration. In a statement, which I would like to make, it can once again be pointed out that the adoption of the compact does not entail any new legal commitments and that it cannot therefore be used by courts to develop justice. Since it is not a treaty, a declaration to make when adopting the compact has, in my view, more effect than staying away from an additional country. In my view, that statement should not be limited to emphasising the non-binding nature of the compact. It is also necessary to make it clear, as Ambassador Bodson has also said, preferably supported by as many countries as possible, what positive points it contains and what negative points we believe it contains. Of course, Belgium can only make such a statement, but if it could be made by a majority of EU Member States, it would be much better. If that succeeds, Belgium will achieve more than Austria by being absent in Marrakesh. A statement by the EU will place much more weight on the scale than an additional country that remains absent. I would like to refer to the Declaration and Action Programme against Racial Discrimination adopted in Durban, in which I participated in 2001. At that time Belgium made a statement on behalf of the EU and the associated countries stating that this declaration and the action programme were political instruments and not legal, and that they could not impose obligations, responsibilities or rights to compensation. Finally, another thought. When I worked in the UN, I learned that the European Union is always striving to avoid a three split vote. This is a situation where EU Member States vote in favour, EU Member States vote against and EU Member States abstain. They make themselves irrelevant. That is why I think it is appropriate, especially in the event of the adoption of the text in New York, to provide an interpretation or explanation in which the EU states what the points it supports are 100% and which points give cause for concern, as pointed out by several speakers. The Netherlands seems to have already taken up the slopes of the statements. It is important to convince other countries of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u47	Thank you, Professor. Thanks also to the other speakers. I found the presentations very interesting and interesting. Do colleagues have any questions to the speakers for clarification?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u48	Mr President, will the meeting continue at noon?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u49	I propose that we exhaust our agenda. If necessary, we shall postpone the beginning of this afternoon's debate to 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u50	It wasn't planned, that's why I'm asking the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u51	Mr President, I would like to thank all the experts for their speech, and I would like to join you in mentioning the history of the sitting today. It is already a gain in recent days that such things can be widely discussed in an open forum, where everyone can either be present in the audience or follow the streamed meeting. But that profit didn't reassure me, that's something else. It is sometimes said that if two lawyers are put together, they get three opinions. So what misery have you brought upon us by bringing together some eight?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u52	There's six of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u53	Six, and the diplomat. All right, six plus one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u54	The diplomat described the negotiation process for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u55	We are wandering and I do not find this reassuring between, on the one hand, the theorem that what is in it is already described somewhere and, on the other hand, the theorem that there are many new things in it. And for the record, they're all sensible people who spoke here. No one has quickly gathered half an opinion. With regard to the meaning and impact of soft law, we have noted here in particular that we are entering unclear paths. What everyone probably agrees on is that this is part of a process that is already going on. That's right. It is perhaps important that this process as such should be considered once. In our opinion, we are given the question of how far we move in giving our sovereignty. Everything is in it and the opposite, I have noted. I do have another question, to everyone here, I suspect. I would like to hear from the people who referred to the formula followed by Germany, with an interpretative note which would not be added to the Pact, whether the German road is, in their view, a relief. Dear experts, do you agree that we are moving the migration pact further in the process of shifting from international to global law? Is it true that we are doing a new move on that meter, which actually means that we are going to be in another legal system for a piece of legislation? One of the experts, I believe Mr Wouters, has said that soft law is sometimes used as a technique to build a consensus through non-binding agreements, in other words to feel how hot the water is and to check when we withdraw our toes. With the latter we have to be careful, because frogs are cooked in this way: the temperature is gradually increased, until there is no escape. That metaphor might not even be so far-fetched in this context. Dear experts, is it true that in the area of the separation of powers, where the legislative power determines the rules applied by judges, the area of judges increases? Is it true that the impact of judges in determining what is right and wrong increases to the detriment of those who form the legislative power? In an earlier piece by Professor Wouters, written with his colleague Van Poecke, I read: "The statement that the Pact is neutral against migration is incorrect." Mr Wouters did not repeat that statement here today, but I assume he will not return to it. Dear professors, do you agree that the atmosphere of the migration pact is migration-friendly, if I may put it that way? Is it true that the migration pact is not a neutral approach? I am not talking about a determination, I am talking about a sentiment or an attitude towards the phenomenon. I would also like to put the following to his colleagues. In the same text, Mr Wouters and Mr Van Poecke say that it cannot be ruled out that some of the commitments in the Pact will later prove to be legally relevant. I asked the diplomat a question that I borrowed from Mr Wouters. Is the way of working or are the negotiation processes necessary for refinement or change? It is about a way of decision-making without a parliamentary debate. We in the Chamber are now doing a great deal of work on this, which is a very good thing, but technically we did not have to. In fact, we are not even party to the story, partly because it is not a treaty. What concerns me in Professor Wouters' text is that he says that the migration pact is too detailed a text. That worries me because every word could possibly inspire someone to read something in the text. What can be read in it has become clear in the meantime. The creativity in the text is not unlimited, but very broad. Professor Bossuyt stated, like Professor Wouters, that for such an additional interpretative note, whatever its form, I have asked if the German version is interesting and has also been mentioned in the Netherlands, the question is how many countries should participate in it before the note would be relevant. I read in De Tijd, although we always have to pay attention with newspapers, that according to Wouters the best way out of the impasse is therefore an interpretive statement that all European countries put together. I myself have insisted in Parliament that we should not ignore, within the Belgian tradition, that part of Europe is somewhat more reluctant in this respect. So as many countries as possible must participate. The question must therefore be asked as to how many countries they should be. I would also like to refer, Professor Bossuyt, to the texts you used to write about the activist actions of judges and to the question I asked about the scope between legislative and executive powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u56	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u57	Should I be called Calvo, I would of course start to talk about it, without basing myself on lyrics. That's right. We know that, Kristof. I would also like to talk about the vague language. That is a bit in line with what I said earlier, Professor Wouters, namely that the text is too detailed. A detailed text would be thought to know very well what it is about, but if at the same time the text is detailed and vague, then we are talking about text filling. "Let us make sure that the text is long enough, then it gives the impression of being very serious." The compact says it's a milestone, but not the end of the effort. What exactly is that supposed to mean? What is the intention of that text? It is quite clear that it is a pre-breed or a step in a process that apparently goes somewhere. I think it's not bad to know what's in the fine print or what's in the direction we're heading. The criticism of the Global Compact for Migration that we are putting forward is far less related to Article 17. I have fifteen points, but the question is whether this is a clear guide. That's the point. As far as family reunification is concerned, one can read both in one and the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u58	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u59	May I ask that the duo Calvo-De Roover remain calm? You have the floor, Mr De Roover. Don't be distracted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u60	That's very difficult with a hyperkinetic person facing you. Professor Bossuyt also mentioned that the distinction between regular and irregular should, for example, be more precise. I am equally concerned about that. If the distinction is to be made more clearly, it means that we are dealing with a grey zone there. That raises the question of where this grey zone can lead us. Is it an open question? Does it mean a blank check? Do you agree that there is a broadening of the legal terminology used, for example with the choice of the words regular and irregular rather than legal and illegal? That's striking, isn't it? It is up to you to say whether there is a shift in meaning. I am even told that the word "for" in Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration is not innocent. It's not "about," it's "for." Maybe it's a little bit of a problem that I'm gonna let you take care of. I asked about the legal consequences and the impact of the soft law and I asked if we could predict what direction it would take. The first expert mentioned state sovereignty. Is he gonna be under any pressure here? A colleague of yours, Professor Deketelaere, said about the interpretative note that the Dutch and German way out only offers a way out for the gullible and ignorant. You certainly do not belong to the class of ignorant and I have no knowledge of your gullibleness. According to Professor Deketelaere, the note would have no legal value and would only be windowdressing. Here too, we are allowed to talk about someone who has thought about such things. Do we even know what the impact of such an additional note is? I do not go into the discussion about the meaning of certain points, because it is precisely our concern that they can be interpreted in very different ways. I would like Mr Bodson to be appointed as a life-long interpreter, but that is not the case. What assurance do we have that we will also be able to rely on the interpretation given if it is applied? In short, there are a lot of uncertainties and a lot of suspicions that it is going in one direction, but just as many suspicions that it is going in the other direction. If you can give me an answer to that group of questions, there may be a second round. Another factual question. Professor Bossuyt, you dropped the word Gulf states. Will the Global Compact have any impact on their way of dealing? I am referring to the Gulf States as an example, but you mentioned them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u61	Mr President, I will be briefer than my colleague and will therefore ask two questions. First, I would like to ask the professors of international law what, in their view, would be the legal value of an interpretative declaration of a non-binding text. It seems to me that this would be more a matter of political declaration than of legal declaration. Would it not, therefore, be a political pirouette to escape the crisis that the government is currently going through? Secondly, Mr Ambassador, one of the speakers felt that a strong step would be to have several members sign an interpretative declaration, which would then be presented in Marrakech. Moreover, it seems to be the fruit of countries that are either in contradiction with certain objectives of the Covenant or that have been the hardest in the negotiations. Do you consider that a declaration signed by several would be stronger than the Prime Minister's presence in Marrakech? In view of your diplomatic function, I would have liked to know how you felt about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u62	Mr President, I also thank the various speakers who make up this panel of experts in international law. I do not have a lot of questions to ask, since I have received a lot of answers, which reassured me on several points which merited clarification: transposition into positive law, non-binding nature of the text, etc. I am only a modest connoisseur of international law. That said, Master Keuleneer, your analysis seemed a little strange to me. Indeed, if I understood you correctly and followed your reasoning correctly, there would be no difference – in your opinion – between a General Assembly resolution and a classic treaty, which would therefore have the same strength. As I have just said, I am not an expert in international law, but there are still things that seem strange to me. How do you explain your analysis and your comments in view of the fact that international law recognizes General Assembly resolutions as non-binding? We've done some research. The United Nations legal opinion of May 1986 generally states that decisions and resolutions of the United Nations are of a recommendatory nature and therefore do not bind member countries that have the right to vote in favour or against resolutions. That makes a lot of sense. So I wonder what you're relying on, unless we're wrong, but I don't think that's the case. The General Assembly shall vote by a majority. If it wanted to make its decisions binding, it would vote unanimously, as in many other decision-making processes. I confess that I consulted Google and I saw that you had some expertise in canon law. In view of this expertise, can you explain what you said this morning?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u63	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the speakers. Their explanations were very enriching for the substantive debate on the migration pact. This is an added value for this Parliament and for the public debate. I've listened carefully and I haven't heard eight opinions. I am making this abstraction of Mr Bodson, our diplomat, whom I thank for his factual presentation of the process. However, I have not heard six opinions from the other six speakers, and I have heard two. One was shared by the vast majority of speakers. I have a few questions for each of them. Firstly, there has been a discussion on whether a compact is part of the corpus of international law. We have heard contradictory views on this, formal and informal. In fact, you are talking about a transnationalisation of international law whereby we would give up power, whereby we would give up powers implicitly or explicitly. My question to you is whether we have a pact that I have heard the Belgian government is not a party to, something that no one has contradicted in which we cannot give up any party's power. Can we give up power with a compact, on which I have heard by consensus from all of you that it is not binding? Can we give up with a compact power or powers when it expressly states in that pact that it is confirmed by each of you that it does not affect sovereignty? In other words, can a supranational institution get something that we as a state have not given, not given and not intend to give? I hear some people say: politicians or non-politicians who agree to this pact or who adopt it are for open borders. I also heard this morning that we would give up jurisdiction over our border policy. Even the word "full" has been used. To what extent, if we accept it compactly, do we in any way also have competence over our border policy? To what extent would we have the power to decide who is or is not entitled to come and stay in our country? Now perhaps I'm addressing Professor Desmet a little more. You have considered the case law of the Council of Foreign Ministers and not just that, but with reference to the case law of the Council of State. First of all, you mention the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. If we are allowed to talk about hierarchies of law, I think that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, although no treaty unlike the European Convention, has a special international legal value in this matter. However, it is not really possible to use it to interpret our internal migration law. Is this settled case law and does that not mean that soft law is very limited in that respect? I come to the problem of soft law. If the compact could give rise to soft law, is that true? I would like to put the question to those who would like to answer it. I understand that the compact is not an isolated international diplomatic or legal phenomenon, but it is a coherent one. Some interesting examples have been cited, all examples from this legislature, approved by this government, by the whole government, by the four parties. Are all the issues on that line, therefore, not a source of soft law and are the potential risks that are pointed out perhaps it is good to clarify what those potential risks are if not already de facto acquired by what this government has done, on behalf of the Belgian State and with the approval of Parliament, because we have not stopped it, a priori or a posteriori? I would like to ask you specifically about the Marrakesh Declaration of May 2018, approved by the Belgian Government and signed by the relevant ministers, Deputy Prime Minister Jambon, State Secretary Francken and Deputy Prime Minister Reynders. Is that not true, because there are a lot of dragonflyings in there that can also be found in the pact? I come to my final questions. I have actually heard one opinion on what is called an interpretative statement, an explanation of vote or a position statement. In the Netherlands it is called a statement of position. In fact, no speaker threw that idea away. I have heard that such a statement would be the most solid, detailed and motivated and that it would be best supported by as many countries as possible. But no one here today has said that this is a pubic patch and that it has nothing to do with it. Everyone has seen a certain value in this and a possible solution that can, in any case, limit potential risks, which have been pointed out by the left and right. I would therefore like to ask all the professors what suggestions they give us to find solutions in this area. Finally, I have a question about something that has not been specifically addressed today, but which has been indirectly referred to. Our magistrate applies the law and that's hard law in the first place. I've always learned that soft law is complementary and subordinate to hard law. You may contradict me if I haven't studied badly. That may be the case. Yesterday, we read in the newspaper that the case law of the European Court is developing and that "under pressure from public opinion" magistrates do not live in a no-man's-land.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... In other words, she is asking for a piece of support in a society. Can that be confirmed? Does such evolution in the case law also affect possible soft law on matters we have discussed today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the panel, I would like to be shorter in my question than the previous speakers, because we have to keep two things apart: the debate on the substance of the matter, the substance of the matter and the proposal for a resolution. In the course of the hours we still have the opportunity to do so. I think that we should now concentrate on the additional question or consideration which I would like to hear from the members of the panel, because they will leave us shortly. I'd like to take a look at it first. I would like to add that debates such as these in Parliament are indeed important. The issue of migration affects and frightens a lot of people. We are here in the field of international policy. Under the Constitution, the government determines that policy and Parliament can only play the role it has to play. I think it is important that we should be able to debate the substance of the matter here and, in fact, to democratize the subject in this way. Let me give you an example and ask you a question. Illegals or unregulateds, what's in a name, we will agree on the qualification which is found in our territory, must be removed from the territory. The big problem here is that we need the agreement of the countries from which these people come. A lot of people don't understand that. People don't understand that sometimes. I was responsible for the problem. One wonders why the people who are so caught are not simply put on a plane. That is what people think, but they do not know that this national must be identified and recognised by the country of origin. I think it is important that we address this in a multilateral framework. I also think that this multilateral framework is the importance of the compact. That kind of problem is not solved as a country alone. You can't do that. This readmission problem is touched in the compact. If it is not a binding pact, then of course it is not a binding one in the two directions. So, according to the experts, what progress can we make with the compact to activate readmission policy? It is not possible to conclude agreements with a large number of countries. We must not conclude agreements with a number of countries, for example because they do not recognise human rights, but we must negotiate with them at some point. It's in the compact. Readmission policy is one of the reasons why I consider it compact to be very important. Quite specifically, to what extent can readmission policy be activated on the basis of the text? Secondly, I believe that many of the issues in the compact are entirely in line with Belgian policy. I do not think there is any provision in it, unless the experts contradict me, which obliges us to do something new. Or am I wrong? Is there anything in the compact that would force the Belgian federal government to do something new? Another element I would like to mention is the interpretative note or the explanation of vote. I understand that the Marrakesh conference offers participants an opportunity to explain something there, to put forward a position there. I also understand, of course, that it is not yet possible to give an explanation of vote in a speech at the United Nations General Assembly at a later date, an interpretative note. In other debates I am talking about preambles, but that is not the case here. I can see Mr Cologneer looking up, perhaps because of the reference to the preamble to the Constitution. What I mean is a kind of introductory text, an interpretative explanation. I think that Mr Bossuyt's statement is very important, that we really do not deserve anything with an empty chair. The interpretative explanation may therefore be important, but it should be supported by as many countries as possible. I believe that the Netherlands and Denmark and possibly other countries have indeed chosen this option. It is therefore important to play a very active role, also within the framework of the European Union, in order to be able to move as many countries as possible effectively in this direction. My question concerns a question of competence, which the experts do not have to answer. We are now debating something that the government should actually decide on. Our debate here is taking place on the basis of a motion for a resolution which calls on the government to do something, namely simply to approve the Global Compact, without delay. However, I do not want that. However, I am in favour of this being settled in the government, and I am in favour of an interpretative statement. Do you think it is a good idea, ladies and gentlemen, when we vote on the motion for a resolution, to add an amendment stating that the adoption of the compact is not a good idea, but that it should be accompanied by an interpretative statement? In this context I am also addressing Groen-Ecolo and the cdH, the PS and sp.a. I understand it needs compact approval. If it is going to be a matter for Parliament, then I would like to hear the experts' idea of the importance of an interpretative statement. Parliament can then ask the government to accept the compact only if it does not, Professor Bossuyt, it is the adoption and not the signature or approval, together with an explanation of vote. I am sure we will discuss that further this afternoon. From a democratic point of view, I think that is an interesting exercise. Some political groups have stated that Mr De Roover is not present at the moment and that they do not believe in the importance and usefulness of an interpretative statement. With Open Vld, we believe in that. What do the other groups think of that? Does such an amendment, added to the motion for a resolution, make sense at all in the constitutional system like ours? After all, the government must, of course, first and foremost succeed in defining an attitude. But of course it is always good that the government knows that it can work with a very broad parliamentary majority which, as far as I am concerned, should not always coincide with the majority of governments. But that's for later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u65	Mr President, I too would like to thank all the experts for their very interesting explanations. I believe that a majority of experts have made it very clear that this treaty, which Mr De Roover is now saying is not a treaty, is not binding. Then why is there such a big discussion? I believe that the statement could be read in what the spokesperson of the Jambon cabinet said on 30 November in the newspaper De Standaard. He said there: "The validation of a text depends on a particular context and a certain moment. Eventually new elements popped up in the story. The symbolism around Marrakesh increased enormously. It became a political issue." That, I believe, explains a lot. Professor Bossuyt, I have a question for you, and you have said, and I will probably not be able to say it legally as well as you, that the European Member States lose a great deal of power and authority if they vote differently. One for, one against, one abstention. This gives one a strong weakened position. We have lobbied a great deal over the last few months, and successfully, to get a seat on the Security Council. To what extent will our attitude or not work positively on that seat and authority and power, in that Security Council? You have experience with that, I suspect, so perhaps you can answer that. A very important element, for which I agree with Mr Dewael, is that many people feel a kind of powerlessness towards migration. If the problem is to be properly managed, partnerships will have to be established in an international context. The text before us is not only about migration, but also about integration. That is perhaps an angel for this government today and an issue in our country on which we should call a special committee. I believe there are people of good will who want to manage such a problem. One can draw the parallel with everything that happens around the climate. Intentional processes are being put on paper. Partnerships are sought on concrete actions. The different countries can choose from a menu. One can perhaps also make a dream a reality, so that migration-friendly policies are equal to a man-friendly policy. The tone of this has recently become particularly inhuman. In addition to this compact, there is another Marrakesh Declaration, which was agreed in the framework of the Rabat Dialogue. It's also about some kind of treaty. That treaty was approved by Minister Jambon and Secretary of State Francken. Francken wrote on Twitter in May this year that the Marrakesh Declaration is not about this compact treaty and that it would not open the gate to Europe wide. On his blog he wrote that we should work together with Africa and seek partnerships. He said that was crucial. So I do not understand why we are now making so many problems around the compact, when we have already signed treaties with African countries that are actually about the same thing. Apparently such a bilateral agreement between Belgium and African countries would be worth far less.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u66	Mr President, I would like to go into the statements that Fernand Cologneer has just made. After all, I see a very great dissonance between what he says and what the other five experts say. I believe that you have made a number of very bold statements, including that this pact can be claimed. You have referred to the term to commit used in the text. The term to commit is effectively used 91 times in the text. As far as I know, to commit is a common legal term that actually points to an effort commitment and not to a result obligation. I noticed that Paul Scheffer made exactly the same mistake this weekend in De Standaard. He also calls on the jargon, the term to commit, to state that if we agree to this pact, we commit ourselves to the actions listed in it. I would like this point to be clarified. Secondly, you are talking about basic services, basic services to migrants. You say this is multi-interpretable in the pact. I suppose you then refer to point 31 where there is "safe access to basic services." Mr Cologneer, I am surprised that you did not read the second part of the sentence. The second part of the sentence is: "notwithstanding that nationals and regular migrants may be entitled to more comprehensive service provision." In other words, this pact does indeed say that a basic service, a basic service to migrants, is logical and reasonable. This also makes sense in Belgian and European policies, which are European standards, more or less. But the Pact clearly states that a country is sovereign to decide to distinguish between basic services for migrants and Belgians, recognised refugees and regular migrants. I am very surprised that you did not give the second part of that sentence in your remarks earlier, which were rather boud. Thirdly, you also said just now that this pact automatically takes precedence over national law. You spoke of a blank cheque and you even compared it to CETA and TTIP. However, I have heard the five other speakers say that this is not a blank cheque at all, nor a treaty at all, as CETA should be. Those are treaties and five of the six experts pointed out the big difference. This is soft law, cleared out by five of the six experts, and can be used as such in, for example, case law, by a lawyer, but it is up to the court to base itself first and foremost on hard law, on legislation, on international law, on treaties. That soft law, which is compact, can only play a part in an argument that, for example, is built up by a lawyer. After listening to the six experts, I find a great deal of agreement, contrary to what Mr De Roover said just now. Five of the six experts have left no doubt that this is compactly non-binding, that there are no legal obligations. Nor have I heard a call that it would be unwise to go to Marrakesh. I have also heard that a position statement can certainly be taken into account and that this will actually be taken into account in consideration in the case-law. I have heard absolute agreement on this with five of the six experts. I have another question for Mr d'Argent. You mentioned a number of clarifications which could be added, for example in a statement of position or an explanation of vote. You referred to the example of non-refoulement, about how this compact describes it and adds a small phrase to it. These are matters which, according to what I hear, could be clarified, clarified and clarified in an explanation of vote or position. From a certain angle, it is also said that this Pact is an open border pact. This, of course, scares people, because we do not want them to. We do not want that either, we are not in favour of open borders. To my knowledge, there is no political party that advocates open borders in this country. That cannot be the intention at all. So I want to be able to test the fear of the people, the falsehoods that have been preached over the past few weeks, against you. I would therefore like to ask you the very specific question as to whether this statement is true and to what extent this pact threatens to prevent a country from returning migrants to its country of origin. I would like a very clear answer to that. This does not seem to us to be the case, we do not think there is a problem. However, if this has not been spread by the least politicians in the past few days and weeks, I would like to know whether this is true. I don't want people to be lied to. I do not think it is a politician's job to proclaim falsehoods and scare people without an objective reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u67	Mr President, I thank all the speakers and experts. I must say I was very impressed. We usually say that, like doctors, several lawyers in the same room will all have different opinions. Today, six of the seven opinions we heard were perfectly converging, precise and substantiated. I have learned a great deal about these issues of international law. The seventh opinion, which was very minority, seemed to me less relevant in terms of law. Rather, I felt that it was an ideological statement. These are central issues for our society today. As we know, we feel it: on the political level, the question of migration, identities and living together is essential. It is very important to have this debate in Parliament and I am glad that we have it. Some have questioned the value of tabling a motion for a resolution, in particular our colleague from the N-VA, Mr. From Roover. This surprises me, because at the same time he is concerned about the power that would eventually be given to the judge. Let us keep power in Parliament, give an opinion and take responsibility for this central political issue, on the basis of legal light. If we do not adopt this text, if we do not go to Marrakech, we create a real break from the Belgian tradition. To my knowledge, it's unprecedented, unless I'm misinformed. This is one of my questions: is there a precedent in Belgian diplomacy? This is a text that has been negotiated at length by Belgian diplomacy. Your speech, Ambassador, has shown that Belgium has been extremely proactive at all stages of writing this text. Is there a precedent, where we would have negotiated a text, of which we are very satisfied, and where we would not be present at an international conference? Does this exist in the history of Belgium? I don't believe it. That is the whole danger in what the N-VA is proposing to us today. This is a radical break in our traditions. We want a peaceful world, a space in which we can discuss key issues with a view to reaching agreement on certain general principles. On these issues, we can try to move forward in concert rather than in each other's corner, rather than against each other. Is this not a major danger to our future place in the international community, in the concert of the Nations? What could be the consequences for Belgium? I heard again this morning that, at a European summit, Belgium had taken a very unique position on climate issues. This is a new precedent for our country. In view of the development of Belgian diplomacy, do you consider this to be a trend? On the other hand, as many of you have pointed out, there may be an explanation of vote. I have heard that on the occasion of the latter, it would be recalled that the Covenant is non-binding. But this is stipulated in the Covenant. Does the explanation of vote make any sense if it is to repeat it? I have also heard that on this occasion the sovereignty of Belgium will be recalled. But this is also included in the Covenant. What could be referred to in an explanation of vote? In particular, I have heard the observation of the Silver Professor that doors could be closed. What could be included in this statement? My question is also addressed to Ambassador Bodson. Are work currently under way – we are just a few days away from the adoption of this Pact in Marrakech – in Belgium, at European level, to try to be on the same wavelength and possibly to present a text that would make sense, that would not call the Pact into question and that would be consistent with a common position of the European Union? Are there any efforts or writing in this area? Finally, I heard that the President of the Flemish Region, Geert Bourgeois, had not raised any objections and that he had even approved the Covenant. I would remind those who are distracted that Mr Bourgeois is a member of the N-VA. Can you tell us how he approved this Covenant? When? How? Has he, at any time, expressed any reservations with regard to the approval of this text?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u68	Mr President, my comment at the beginning of the sitting may also be a conclusion. Firstly, I have heard several representatives of political groups say that today, on the basis of the current hearing, it has been shown explicitly that the Pact is not binding, that there is no problem with the sovereignty of our country in the area of immigration policy and that the Pact is fully in line with the immigration policy pursued. We know well enough, of course, that five of the six specialists asked here today have no criticism whatsoever. Their comments are therefore in line with what the vast majority of the groups themselves think and think. These comments have also been proposed and proposed by these groups. As a result, there is only one expert who is actually critical and of whom we know that he will actually make critical observations in advance. The proposals we have made to allow six professors to speak here who have spoken critically in the media about sovereignty, whether or not the Pact is binding and about content are not being heard. The parties in favour of the Marrakech immigration pact or the Global Compact have, in particular, confirmed their own strong support. This will now be dealt with by the media, with the result that the impression is given that there is hardly any resistance or critical sound in public opinion, which of course is not true. Unfortunately, this is an air bubble, which is completely isolated from what lives in the real world and from the position adopted by the vast majority of the population, which is immigration critical and does not like the pact. Secondly, I have heard a lot of people exhaust themselves into all kinds of arguments, to note that the pact is not binding, that it is not really important, that our sovereignty is not compromised, that we should not take it so seriously, that we should just approve everything and move on to the order of the day. I don't understand. The main proponents of the Pact make use of arguments to point out that in fact it does not represent much. If I were in favour of the principles enshrined in the Pact, I would be in favour of giving the Pact as much political and legal capacity as possible. Apparently that's not the case. They want to push it through by giving the impression that it will not all go so fast. The non-binding nature and the non-determining of sovereignty are a lube to eventually get it sold to public opinion. I regret that a number of eminent lawyers and professors, with their statements, are ultimately cooperating in this strategy. I have reservations about that. Ladies and gentlemen, what you are declaring here is never without commitment, it is never just scientific. You are allowed to engage in a political agenda. You have to think for two seconds when you do that, when you lend yourself to it. Thirdly, on the content: we must not forget that those who have spoken here today as specialists have said that it is not binding, that it does not affect our sovereignty, but they immediately added that they know that this is part of the United Nations strategy, global governance, the form of a world government, the overrule of national states, especially in the area of immigration policy. Through soft law, through customary law and through the influence that one creates, this pact will have its impact and direct impact on world immigration policy. That is the most important thing I have heard, including those who support the Pact and who believe that there are no problems in the area of sovereignty. Finally, Mr President, no matter what we do or do not do, the United Nations, and that has also been explicitly demonstrated today by the statements I have heard here, as a sort of globalism laboratory, as a kind of world government. It may not be that it is going to be so fast and interpretable in different directions, but we must make efforts to read the creed of this Marrakech Pact: "We recognise that immigration is a source of progress, innovation and sustainable development in our globalised world." One should not read 27 pages, one should read just that one sentence to know what the underlying purpose is, what the creed, what the creed is, what the creed of this Marrakech Pact is. And then we get to this catalogue of rights from the open border lobby, with easier family reunification, with more rights for illegal immigrants, with recognition of climate refugees, with a victim status for those who use smugglers, with the trouble of expulsions, with the restriction of freedom of expression for immigration critical opinions, political parties and politicians, but also in the media and even in education. That's the whole story. It's not much harder than that. I hope that the eminent scientific professors will also be fully aware of this when they make their pleas to push it through because it will not all go so fast. We also need, and above all, a political agenda, which is not the agenda shared by the vast majority of our population and the people of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u69	Mr President, unlike others, I have not heard six different legal opinions here. Usually it's non-lawyers who say this and then mostly when they haven't really listened properly. We lawyers know that we have a lot to forgive non-lawyers, let alone if they haven't listened. I've heard a number of cases with everyone. That is, among other things, that, no matter what we do, the pact will come. Whatever the Secretary of State is tweeting, whether the government falls or not, whether there's gonna be an insert or not, it's not gonna change that much in itself. I have also heard clearly that no one is excluding that the text will be used by judges as a framework for interpretation. I think that perhaps Mr d'Argent was the most restrictive in that, by saying:ponctuellement. Pontuellement Article 3, of course. That is ponctuellement, that is one provision, but it has an enormous impact on the case law that Strasbourg has developed on migration. I certainly do not talk about the experts, but when I listen to the reactions of some parliamentary colleagues here, I have the impression that there is a distinction between hard law and soft law, as if they were two different planets, perhaps even two different universes. Of course it isn't. The hard law isn't as hard as one might think. When a judge applies Article 3 of the ECHR, he must simply fill in what is a degrading treatment. He has to fill that out and he will indeed do so largely by looking at other texts, for example the compact one. That hard law is not so harsh that the judges there would judge within very strict limits. It's fiction to think that. What I have also learned is that such texts are produced everywhere except in Parliament. Everywhere except in Parliament, soft law is established: it is done within the Council of Europe, within the United Nations. Everywhere we are flooded by soft law, and the only place that is not mentioned there is the Belgian Parliament, because treaties still have to be approved by Parliament, and when it comes to EU treaties there is an information obligation of the government towards Parliament. However, when it comes to soft law, it is not really discussed, except sometimes because of the goodwill of a diplomat who wishes to exchange views with Parliament. We must therefore think very seriously, also for the future, how we deal with such texts. Professor Desmet said it's not just about the compact, but there are many other lyrics. That is true, but we have actually taken it very far. Some colleagues criticise Master Cologneer, but he has raised a number of very pertinent issues. He said that it hasn't been the case for a long time that our magic palace parliament controls the government. At a certain point the question of the hierarchy of international and national law was addressed. International law does indeed prevail, even on the Belgian Constitution. Who decided that? Has that ever been decided in our Parliament? No, never. This was decided by the Council of State in the Orfinger judgment, in one sentence, without explanation, and was followed by the Court of Cassation in 2004 in the case against the non-profit organisations of the former Vlaams Blok in one sentence, without argument. That is the democratic way in which we are ironically meant to deal with it and on which we have given up our sovereignty. We have not even given them out of our hands, she has been taken out of our hands without any justification. It's high time we started thinking about how we're gonna deal with that true diarrhea of soft law that's flooding us. I really don't think it's normal there, I follow Master Cologne, that regulation and toughness are created somewhere in some talk barracks, and that afterwards they say that what is agreed in that talk barracks, often without democratic legitimacy, is soft law, which will then be used for the interpretation of the hard law. So soft law indeed becomes very hard law very quickly. I think we should think about that. I also agree with a number of comments made by Mr Verherstraeten. That soft law has been going on for a long time. In this government there are indeed other examples of soft law. There is not only the migration pact, there is also the Marrakesh Declaration of May, a text of similar scope, which apparently did not raise any problems for anyone at the time. We also saw this morning in Mr Bodson's speech that until recently the text of the migration pact did not cause any problems either. It was also a text that went through very smoothly. It also appears that crucial passages that are now being challenged, for example on family reunification, have been drawn up in close cooperation with or at the direction of the services of the Secretary of State, which is now opposed to this. That's far-reaching. What we have learned here is that one must be active from the beginning. Diplomacy, Mr Bodson, can only work with what is being offered to her and she has done so. One cannot ask the diplomats to work with matters that are not handed over to them. We heard the explanation very clearly this morning. I would really like to call for a reflection on what sovereignty really is and what it means for a country and what the institutions of that country still have the right to decide. I'm afraid this is less than most people here think.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u70	I have three more speakers on the list. I give the floor to Mr Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u71	Mr President, I thank all the speakers. Indeed, I believe that the vast majority of statements on the international law aspect of the Covenant complements rather well the statement made by Mr. Bodson at first. We can make a double observation. On the one hand, the N-VA, and in particular Secretary of State Theo Francken, obtained everything it wanted in terms of the content of the Covenant. Moreover, as most speakers have confirmed, the Covenant is non-binding. I ask you the question: could we go beyond this point? On a number of issues, such as confinement, especially of children, refoulement and even other issues, does the Covenant go no further than other binding texts? The N-VA got what it wanted in terms of content. The text is not binding. Why then this change of attitude of the N-VA? Clearly because of an international campaign of the far right, which puts political pressure on the N-VA. I think we can talk about a fake news campaign. Perhaps I would like to have your opinion, perhaps not on the qualification of fake news, but on what we hear from this international campaign of the far right. It is a campaign that does not address the real legal impact that the Covenant could have, but attempts to surf the anti-migrant sentiments that exist in the head of a part of the population. We can therefore question statements such as those made by Mr De Roover, who says that the Covenant can be interpreted very broadly. Do you think that is the case or, on the contrary, are things fairly precise, contained and demarcated? I come to my last question, which is perhaps even more fundamental. From the moment this Covenant does not add new rights, and it is not binding, are the opponents of the Covenant, not the Covenant itself, actually aiming at fundamental rights for which Belgium is already committed? It would be the real target of those who pretend to attack the Covenant but, in fact, go further than attacking the Covenant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u72	Mr President, I would like to join very briefly those Members who thanked the speakers. It is not an easy task to have to appear here at a turbulent political moment. Our group was not very enthusiastic about the session, because we suspected that it had the ambition to slow things down, but after listening to the speakers I think it enriched the debate. I hope, however, that the substantive enrichment will produce results and that what the experts have said will be heard and that together we can see that there has been a large consensus among the experts' panel. Assigning this to the invitation policy of the political groups is dishonorable to the expertise that is present here. That would be a shame. I want to focus mainly on something that is still open and about which I do have questions. That's all about the explanation. First of all, I would like to say something about the factuality, because that is just what comes to mind when I look at my smartphone. I hope somewhere that the factuality that the experts share with us can move the file. I think that's what our country needs. I only have the feeling, when I listen to the colleagues of the N-VA, that this fact will not convince them either. Mr President, you did not have that opportunity because you have to lead the work, but colleagues did have the opportunity to open the communication of the N-VA about an hour ago. It is clear from this that the N-VA does not want to listen in any way or listen to what has been said here. At the very moment, while we are investing in the factuality of this debate, while we are trying to get rid of activism, there is the activism of our colleagues in the N-VA, who claim that the pact is the end of everything we have agreed in our country on family reunification, and that, Mr De Roover, while several experts have just made it clear that our family reunification legislation is not at all at odds with the compact. Nevertheless, N-VA continues to disseminate disinformation at this time. In fact, she goes so far as to look for archival images of women with a nikab to feed that fear, to say that with the compact everything about integration and integration is at stake. That's total bullshit. Anyone who has read it compact knows that on several pages I think the idea of rights and obligations has been included up to seven times. Moreover, should there be a problem of integration, Mr De Roover, Geert Bourgeois would have made a point with the Flemish Government, which is responsible for integration, whereas Mr Bourgeois, responsible for integration, lawyer and N-VA politician, said that there is no problem in terms of Community powers in the area of the powers of the Flemish Government and that powers are elsewhere. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA has long ceased to be concerned with facts, and has long since ceased to be interested in a solution. However, let us encourage everyone to look in Parliament for a solution that can have a basis for support. Maybe something like the statement can help us with that. That is why I would like to question Mr Bossuyt and Mr Wouters on that point. I would like to try to understand what the contours of such an explanation could be, what the scope of such an explanation could be, what the added value of such an explanation could be. Everyone has said it, the compact is not a treaty. Mr Wouters stated in his speech that an interpretative statement is not entirely valid, precisely because it cannot be a treaty. He says that this is a statement of position and an explanation of vote. Mr Bossuyt, I would also like to question you about this, not to play you both against each other, but to really understand what can be done. You used the concept of an interpretative statement in your statement. What could be the added value of such an explanation of vote? Why do I ask, colleagues? It is a pity that Mr Dewael had to leave the Chamber. I don't blame him. Everyone's gotta get out of here. My colleague Van Biesen must be a messenger. That is also politically important now, I believe. The reason why our group may be interested in the formula of an explanation of vote and a resolution which calls on the government to link an explanation of vote to the adoption of the migration pact, not the signing of the migration pact, is that such a supplementary statement could do what Mr Bodson put forward at the beginning of his speech. It could be a way of promoting the Belgian model, Belgian practices, Belgian standards and values, Belgian legislation. Our group is not so much interested in an additional statement to tell us what the compact is not, or just to consider the legally non-binding nature, as if it were still necessary to add a statement to a compact to say that it is non-binding if the compact itself says so. I don't think that's interesting. On the other hand, an additional statement by experts Wouters and Bossuyt could possibly outline its scope, because I cannot estimate it in which we explain the reasons why we support the migration pact and, in order to clarify certain bottlenecks, may have added value. Mr Wouters and Mr Bossuyt, since there was a slight difference in your statements on this subject, I would like to ask you both about the possibilities of such a statement of position or explanation of vote. I understand that the concept of interpretative explanation is problematic in this matter, which you may also be able to clarify. I ask those questions because of even more factuality. We have heard enough about Propaganda from some of our colleagues. The more factual, the better, especially for this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u73	Mr President, this morning we heard experts explain to us what the Pact was, how it was developed. They confirmed what we have already said several times in the rostrum on the negotiating process, during which, according to the diplomat representing us, Belgium obtained everything it wanted. All its constituent entities, up to and including the Secretary of State for Migration, the Minister of Interior and the Minister-President of the Flemish Region, have approved the content of the Covenant. They explained to us the non-binding nature of the Covenant with certain nuances between each other. They repeated essential elements on its content, on the question of the confinement of children, including Belgium's resistance to what is fundamental for us: the refusal of confinement of children, the refusal of racism and xenophobia, the fight against human traffickers, but also, because it is not only in one sense, the rights and duties of migrants. That is what we have said on several occasions: it is a framework. If tomorrow we find visionary and courageous political leaders in Belgium and other countries, perhaps we will see the beginning of an international solution on the issue of migration that leads to terrible tragedies. Mr Keuleneer, it is true that you were the target because your remarks were the most discordant in terms of the questions put. Unanimism is not a good thing. However, Mr Keuleneer, if you are followed, will it still be possible tomorrow to discuss with other states and to seek international, multilateral agreements on climate, migration, the fight against tax evasion, the protection of biodiversity. I do not have the impression, and I would like to question the other eminent jurists in international law. Is it possible today in the world to resolve these issues of migration, human rights, tax evasion, without international consultation, without multilateral agreements, without first establishing concepts common to all States, then, if possible, a common basis for action? I come to more specific questions. Several assumptions were raised. What would happen if Belgium did not go to Marrakech? For the Covenant itself, if I understood correctly, that would not prevent it from moving forward until a few weeks later a resolution was voted on at the United Nations. I'm speaking to diplomats. What would be the consequences for our diplomatic relations with the other States with which we are trying to build common positions to weigh in the concert of nations on international issues? There is now clearly a divide, including in Europe, between more fearful, more extreme states in their approach to issues and other states that are still trying to believe in an ability to resolve matters at the international level. Can you tell us more about this fracture and the historical and present position of Belgium in this area? Belgium is going to Marrakech or not. Nevertheless, the text is moving forward. This will become a resolution put to the vote by the General Assembly of the United Nations. Again, what is the consequence of Belgium's vote? Are we in a position to prevent the progress of this text? In any case, what would be the consequences for its existence and influence, even if it is not binding on the policies carried out here in Belgium? I now turn to what the other members of the majority have to say. We can see that the N-VA appears from the images on social networks that recall the least democratic movements and are particularly worrying. The other parties of the majority argue for an interpretative declaration. Questions on the value of this interpretative declaration have already been asked? Could this interpretative declaration be contradictory to the elements of the Covenant? To what extent? With what impact on the Covenant itself but also on the political choices that should be made at a later stage on this issue of migration in our country? I think there is a point, since the debate is narrowing around the question of interpretative declaration, to further clarification by our eminent jurists on the subject. We plead, and this is the meaning of the tabling of the resolution by our Ecolo-Groen Group, for Belgium's clear position on this matter. We call for an equally clear commitment to the definition of a framework on migration and the search for multilateral solutions, as we have done very regularly in our history, which is also our pride.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u74	Colleagues, I suggest we suspend the sitting for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall resume the sitting. I have spoken with our experts and some of them have an agenda problem and must be gone by 15:00. I have therefore proposed that they respond briefly and concisely to the questions that have been asked. Mr Bodson is the first to leave, and that is why I will be the first to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u76	Mr President, I will try to be very short. Several issues related to the consequences of not going to Marrakech and, above all, not adopting the Covenant. We have talked at length about the hypothetical legal consequences of this text, but we have not talked about the political consequences which, in my opinion, are immediate and concrete. I see – and I suppose others can do so as well – that what works in the area of migration is international cooperation. I take the example of what is happening in the Americas where Donald Trump, the singer of unilateralism, after proposing to build a wall on the Mexican border, having sent the army, having fired tear gas on women and children, finally resorted to an agreement with Mexico. On the European side, what has best allowed us to control migratory flows are agreements with Turkey, it is the privileged relationship we have with Morocco, which plays the ungrateful role of European gendarmerie. We saw what happened with Libya's implosion. Gaddafi's Libya played this role as a barrier, although it was not very nice in many respects. We need the cooperation of the States of origin to help them control their borders, to help them document migrants, especially for return policy. When we need to sign bilateral return agreements with all these countries, we need their benevolence, their goodwill, and that is what the Pact is about. This comprehensive pact creates a cooperative framework that gives us a reference to negotiate such agreements with those States of origin, so that we can work with them. If we withdraw from this Covenant, it will be much more difficult and will have direct consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u77	Mr President, thank you for your attention to be the first to reply. Many questions have been asked, of course I will not be able to answer all the questions. I would first like to reply to a comment made by Mr Dewinter. He said I'm not criticizing the pact. I have said, literally, that I understand the criticism expressed by people like Mark Elchardus, Marc De Vos, Leo Neels and others. I would like to add something that may surprise you, but I can also appreciate the analysis made by Mr Cologneer on globalisation, the trend towards transnational, world government and so on, and that this poses dangers. I am aware of that, but the question is what is being done about it. It is difficult to say that we are opposed to leaving the United Nations. That does not seem to me to be the appropriate way of doing things. That's not what he's proposing either. Is there a danger that judges will use interpretations, in particular on migration, which go beyond what I believe is prescribed by positive law? Yes, there is that danger. I wrote something about this in 2014 in the Magazine of Law under the title 'Rightly activism in Strasbourg'. I am therefore well aware of this. It was then quoted. It was said that the separation of powers was violated. No, I think this is the right place. There are things that are legally established and there are things that need to be left to policy. And there are sometimes judges who don't respect that, and that's regrettable. Do they need that pact to do that? No sides. They have plenty of options. It is not because of the existence of that pact that we will suddenly find ourselves in a situation in which judges are going to do all kinds of business that they would not otherwise do. So we must not exaggerate. It is not a legally binding text. So it won't be signed. But that does not mean that such legally non-binding texts should not be taken seriously. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And one actually has an obligation to try to live up to that in good faith. That is the obligation that exists. In good faith, but of course nothing more than what is justified and is held accountable. That is the sovereignty that remains with the states. As you know, I am not in favour of an absence policy: les absents degenéralement tort. I think it's the same here. Mrs De Coninck asked what its impact would be on our international position as we become members of the Security Council. It is not, of course, because we will be members of the Security Council that we should not have an opinion and that we should not express that opinion. On the contrary, countries that express their opinion are appreciated for this. So it's not. Stay away is a little more delicate. That would probably blame us. What are we supposed to do? I strongly support a declaration in which we say what we agree with in that pact, including that it is an incentive for more cooperation, Ambassador Bodson has just referred to it between countries of origin and countries of transit, on the one hand, and countries of destination, on the other. So far, the response of the international community, including the 2015 migration crisis, has been that it was our problem, here in the West. No, in a globalised world, that's everyone's problem. That is the message we must convey. To some extent, the Pact contributes to this. I think that is very positive. On the other hand, we have to say that we are concerned about certain possible interpretations of the Pact. There is nothing wrong with expressing that. I think that is the way forward. Can we do that alone? Yes, I have already said that, but it would be much better if we did so in the broadest possible framework, with other countries, with EU and non-EU countries. Switzerland is an example of a country that was a facilitator, however, there were internal problems, in parliament, and I think that it should be found to be willing to cooperate in such a declaration. In fact, I am asking myself where Mr Tusk, Mr Juncker and Mrs Mogherini remain throughout this debate. We can't hear them. It is a matter that the EU apparently divides thoroughly, but I do not hear the EU in the debate. If anything else has to be done in the days that separate us from the Marrakesh meeting... After all, it is precisely what Mr Vuye and Mrs Argent said: the pact will come, no one will stop it. It therefore seems appropriate to me that the European Union should, as far as possible, jointly and if it cannot do so with a majority of Member States, make clear what is good in that pact and what may be a cause for concern. That is the position I am firmly trying to defend. Is the pact neutral? No, that is not neutral, but it is, of course, particularly positive in relation to regular, orderly migration. That is what the pact is about. I think this title is very well chosen. Here and there, questions can be asked about the wording and whether or not this can give rise to misinterpretation. However, the objective itself is positive and meets an absolute need. We will not be able to control migration if we do not get cooperation, more than has been the case so far, from countries of origin and transit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u78	Mr President, I shall be brief. I would like to add a number of points to the debate on two points. First of all, Mr De Roover said that on soft law we found ourselves entering unclear paths. The reality is that we have been on these paths for 70 years. This year we are celebrating the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The soft law is simply an integral part of international practice at all levels, global, regional and so on. Does this mean we have to be worried? Does this also mean that there is a shift from international to global law? Are we going to end up in a different kind of legal order? The truth is that for many years there has been a transformation from the classical legal order to a much stronger interaction between international, European and national law rules. The so-called multi-layered legal order is a reality, especially for us here in Belgium. This also follows the realities of economic and social globalisation. The right to globalisation and Europeanisation follows with hordes and bumps. It's an interaction with which I want to make it clear that it's not just something that's forced on top-down, from above. It is something on which we ourselves, from the bottom to the top, can and even must exert influence. We are also organising our sovereignty and the exercise of our powers more and more at European level in order to be able to influence the overall level. I have another point about soft law. We can rightly be very critical in this respect and we must be vigilant, but the criticism is not entirely appropriate here. Indeed, as Ambassador Bodson said, the Pact was achieved in a fairly open manner. We were always briefed, there were government representatives and drafts circulated. I believe that it is much more important for this House to be aware that there are many other standards of soft law that are not followed by the government. They are established in expert groups or even in purely private organisations and have a huge impact on our international relations and trade relations, among other things. There is therefore a whole movement going on, for which we must also be vigilant from an academic point of view. There are critical aspects. For example, there is concern about the democratic legitimacy of such standards. In any case, there is also concern about the fairness and justice of such standards, especially if they are achieved outside the democratic process. We must therefore be vigilant not only for the normative processes that affect us as citizens, but also for the interpretation of these standards by national, European and international courts. We can't be naive about that. At university we have interdisciplinary research on this. In this context, we must also stress the essential role of the European Union. The European Union, through a democratic process, adopts legislation for 500 million Europeans internally, and, if it has sufficient unity, it can also really weigh on international legal form. For this, it is essential that every European Member State cooperates faithfully in European coordination. There is a principle of loyal cooperation in European law, which also applies to our position and our attitude in the international institutions. I believe that it is also very important for Belgium to remain loyal to the European line. European unity is crucial, as Mr Bossuyt said. The European Union has a long tradition of over 40 years in which it coordinates the positions of the Member States in the United Nations as best as possible. We are then 28 out of a total of 193 UN Member States. That's a small minority already. Can you imagine that these European Member States would all take individual positions, determine their voting behaviour, make statements? This means, indeed, that if an explanation of vote or a position statement is required, that statement will be made at the level of the European Union. There's nothing new about that. That happens every day in New York. When resolutions need to be adopted in the General Assembly, there is in many cases a joint explanation of vote by the European Union on behalf of the European Union, on behalf of all its Member States and often on behalf of many other associated countries, in order to achieve a critical mass of votes and thus to influence the debates. Mr President, I will conclude with my second point. It concerns the question raised in our opinion paper in De Tijd last week, namely whether such intergovernmental negotiation processes are in need of refinement. I think this seems to be the case. After all, we have seen that there have been several stages. There has been a consultation phase in the beginning, stock-taking afterwards and then intergovernmental negotiations. What we can learn from this is that there must always be a link between the intergovernmental negotiations and the stakeholders in the social debate, so that we can continue to support them. That is actually a kind of proper regulation procedure. If we want to develop certain new standards, we need to consult and involve stakeholders as much as possible. However, even at the moment when real draft texts are in place, it is important to link back to the stakeholders to see if a consensus on the matter can be found. Many international institutions already apply this practice in their own standardisation processes. We should still be able to generalise such practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u79	Mr President, in view of the time, I will also address a number of points. Firstly, there was a question from Mr De Roover about the activist role of the judge, in which we define activism as being more likely to find an infringement. When we make a full analysis of all the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, we come to a nuanced picture. There have been, on the one hand, a number of judgments on Article 3, which have extended the territorial scope of human rights to international waters, if one is under the control of a state authority. A ban on chain refoulement has been introduced. On the other hand, when we look at the decisions of the European Court of Justice on Article 5 on the right to freedom and security, we see that the European Court of Justice is less strict with regard to migrants in imposing conditions for admission to detention. Unlike other human rights actors, the European Court does not impose a fundamental ban on the detention of children. With regard to Article 8, which regulates the right to family life, we see that the Court is reluctant to recognise a violation of the right to family life in a migration context. The Court's case-law must therefore be based on a nuanced picture. The Foreign Affairs Council confirms 80% of the decisions of the Foreign Affairs Office in immigration matters and 80% of the decisions of the Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless. With regard to the wording'regular and irregular migration' versus 'legal and illegal migration', I would like to point out that the United Nations General Assembly has already called in 1975 for the term 'illegal' not to be used anymore, but rather the term 'irregular', because the latter term is less stigmatising. The European Parliament and the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly also call for this and use the term "irregular." In this sense, the language is not new, but simply a continuation of a position that was taken a long time ago at European and international level. Is the Pact neutral or balanced? It is perhaps a better word, in the sense that it pays attention to the positive aspects, perhaps more than we are used to hearing in the current context, but equally explicitly confirms that the negative aspects of irregular migration need to be addressed. In this context, the language "to commit" refers to commitment and therefore does not express anything legally binding, which does apply to other terms in international law. Is the pact for open borders justified? Well, the text of the Pact does not call for open or closed borders, but for controlled, controlled borders. The Pact aims to give greater control to States over migration policy. In my view, this is also entirely in line with the European Union's policy. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union calls for an integrated management system for external borders, so that we work together with other EU Member States to manage our borders in a joint way. That is also what the Pact says. I come to Mr Verherstraeten's question about the role of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or other sources of soft law in Belgian justice. I would like to confirm that this is a matter of drawing on legal obligations only from soft law. That is not to say, as we have all confirmed here, that soft law cannot have any meaning or can not be used as an interpretation, but only on the basis of soft law, only on the basis of the Universal Declaration, one cannot decide to violate a particular article in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, for example. Perhaps I should also like to comment on Mr Dewinter's comment. I understand that the way things work in this setting is as follows: a number of experts are invited through the political groups. As an academic, it is not very nice to read, first of all, on the news site that people are being nominated from certain political parties. I think that we academics are trying to do our work independently, from a legal point of view, in a scientific way. That's what I was gonna give you. I'll leave it at that, considering the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u80	Mr President, I would like to point out to Mr Dewinter that I am not on duty. I was invited. I have a professional credit, a professional integrity to defend. I was asked about the legal scope of the Covenant, about the dangers it could entail. It was in that capacity that I spoke out. I'm not on duty, Mr. Dewinter. If you had stayed in the room at the time I spoke, honourable Member, you would have noted that I have made a judgment on a sentence of this Covenant which I believe is incomplete and which, in my view, in order to avoid legal risks, should be supplemented by a statement. It is true that the Global Compact is entitled "for safe, orderly and regular migration". But as we just recalled, we have to read the words for what they say. That is, it is a Pact against dangerous, disorderly and irregular migration. That is what this means. Does this Pact give a positive voice to migration? I can understand that we are reading it in this sense, seeing it again from the angelism of the United Nations. I think we still have to be more honest and go beyond this somewhat simplistic reading that we try too often to convey in 140 characters. This Pact, when it says that migration has positive effects, obviously speaks of the migration that it intends to regulate. That is what we are talking about: migrations chosen by States. In this regard, as I have said, States remain absolutely free to make sovereign choices with regard to them. The Covenant is a comprehensive instrument, that is, an instrument that we are negotiating with other States. We must be able to read it from one's point of view, of course – it is this question that we have first of all – but also for the message it sends to the other partners who, in the General Assembly of the United Nations (which has 193 member States) will be called upon to take a decision on this Covenant. The States of origin of migrants could also read the latter by finding it scandalous for their sovereignty. After all, these countries are explicitly asked, where there are distress situations which justify in some respects or which explain that or which cause people to leave their country, to make efforts, to reduce these incentives. They are also asked to accept the return of their nationals who, after being ordered to leave the territory in which they are located, are obliged to return to their country of origin. These countries are also affected by the Covenant. In a way this Covenant – and those who are critical of it should at least recognize it – attempts to "discipline", to make the States of origin aware of some of their responsibilities. Therefore, there is indeed a balance. It is true that there is no need to talk about neutrality or commitment. This is a balance following a diplomatic process. We need to see him. Does the Covenant prohibit the return of illegal migrants to their homes? My legal answer is clearly "no". The Covenant does not prohibit. With regard to non-refoulement, I simply wanted to draw your attention to a formula that seems unfortunate to me and that should (if you ask me for my legal opinion), to try to fill the gaps and to avoid certain possible legal risks – as I said the lawyers are inventive – align themselves as best as possible with the existing positive law. Does the Covenant prohibit the detention of minors and families? Absolutely not. The Covenant talks about it. He simply said that detention must be a measure of last resort. It is therefore wrong to say that the Covenant prohibits the detention of illegal migrants. The Covenant simply calls for the non-separation of families and calls for this to be done as a last resort. I don't see very well how we could read things differently. We live in a society where, indeed, this issue is highly debated. People push the cart in one direction and others hold it. If you question yourself from a legal point of view in order to arrive at a solution in which this text, which is going to live, as I said, will not lead to jobs which could be considered abusive, the solution which I believe is the use of a declaration. I will not call it interpretative because there is no reason to interpret something that is not legal, but "clarification of clarification". The more states will join it, the more weight it will have. I do not think at all that using it is a political pirouette. We must remember the context in which this text was negotiated, as a non-legally binding instrument and which was not subject to the very precise nature of a treaty. In fact, there are no treaties of this form or of this length. Writing is not that of a legally binding treaty, but if we fear misuse, and this fear is not completely unfounded in the society in which we live, it would probably be wise to ensure greater legal certainty, to close some doors. I mentioned the problem in paragraph 37, but I can mention others. Mr Dallemagne, you asked me about what we could put in this statement. I referred to paragraph 37 and the problem of non-refoulement and "other irreparable harm". Paragraph 28 (d) deals with migrant children. This issue seems to be of interest to many people, quite rightly. "Ensure that migrant children are quickly identified at arrival sites, in countries of transit and destination. If they are not accompanied or have separated from their families" – we are therefore in the case of children travelling alone – "ensure that they are promptly entrusted to the child protection services or other competent services and that a qualified and impartial legal guardian is systematically appointed, ensure that the family unit is preserved and treat as children all those legitimately claiming to be minors, unless a multidisciplinary, independent and child-friendly assessment allows the contrary to be established." It should be recalled that, on the one hand, this is one of the proposals on the menu. We don't have to do that. You can draw from the list. On the other hand, what could be a problem in this text in the light of our current practices? Perhaps it could be said that an independent and appropriate multidisciplinary evaluation should be explained. If I go to a border and say I'm seventeen years old, no one will believe me. If someone who is eighteen and a half years old arrives at the border and says that he has seventeen, the text indicates that he should be believed on the word, until a multidisciplinary, independent and child-friendly assessment allows the opposite to be established. What is being done in Belgium now? What are the concrete practices of the Foreign Office, I do not know too much. But imagine here again that inventive lawyers could use the text to say: "Mr.Judge, he is a minor; there has been no independent and adapted multidisciplinary evaluation." Can a doctor appointed by the State not establish the age of a minor? How far are we going? This is the kind of door that the Covenant opens, which is not as critical. It seems to me that the formulas are relatively intelligent, but they could be used in a way that is considered undesirable. And it is with these clauses that one might find desirable a declaration in order to avoid misuse. Again, this text does not give a subjective right, but you can imagine what can be said before a judge through such a text, even if Belgium is completely absent from the process. This will remain a resolution of the United Nations General Assembly. On the issue of global governance, I will simply say with great respect, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the world. As my colleague Jan Wouters has said, this type of thing has been used for seven hundred years. That being said, I can agree with the concern expressed by Mr Vuye, who is also my colleague at the university. I can understand that, from the point of view of democratic control, these informal processes raise questions. That is why a public debate like this has its full meaning. These are indispensable processes in the world in which we live. I do not see very well what other processes we could implement. But your power, you have it from the people; you are chosen. You have a mandate and you do law because you're elected. This is not right, but it is obviously a text that you may be interested in. The control of the executive in this respect and the commitment of the executive obviously has its full meaning. I repeat: If one is anxious to avoid overflows or if one is anxious to keep such an informal instrument under control and to keep its fair reach, it is not foolish and it is in my opinion even advisable to make a statement which tends to clarify certain elements which, for the time being, may seem to be subject to bail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u81	Thank you very much, Professor. I will pass the floor to Prof. Lagerwall.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u82	Mr President, thank you. I wanted to point out, if I did not say so, that neither did I participate in any way in the elaboration of this Covenant and that I am not paid to come here. I am speaking in my capacity as professor of international law at the Free University of Brussels. We have this opportunity to enjoy, in the academic world, this freedom to think, to say, to analyse things in a completely independent way. I would like to come back to a main issue. It is in the interest of an interpretative declaration. I'll tell you what I think from a legal point of view. I don't think it's worth it. I believe that an interpretative declaration is of interest when it comes to legal engagement. That was why States resorted to interpretative declarations when ratifying treaties. Why? Given that these are legal obligations, it is sometimes extremely important to clarify what these legal obligations are. The reason why such interpretative declarations were made after the negotiations, at the conferences where those treaties were adopted or even afterwards, was precisely so that all other States could be aware of them. Either you do not want to commit to certain points and you make reservations, you do not want to be bound by any particular article. It is acceptable under certain conditions, which are not to completely empty the treaty of its substance, but in principle you can establish reservations. You're not connected at all. Either you can make interpretative declarations, i.e. you agree to be bound by an obligation, but you give it clear content. Since we are faced with an instrument that does not codify legal obligations, I do not see the value of an interpretative declaration or even an interpretative note. Why? Since that instrument was non-binding, it would be primarily for States to decide what they would do with the Covenant. They certainly adhere to certain objectives, but ultimately it is up to States to take the concrete actions that will be adopted. I sometimes have the impression that this House is convinced that an interpretative note is needed because otherwise the text cannot be interpreted. But we always interpret the texts, whether there are interpretative notes or not, we interpret the texts. That is why, from a legal point of view, I do not see very well what would be the interest either of an interpretative declaration or of an interpretative note. Is it forbidden to do so? Not at all. In fact, in the United Nations General Assembly, all States take the floor whenever a resolution is adopted, to say why they voted in favour, why they voted against, why they abstained. Some people don't say anything. This is a very normal and usual practice. I just wanted to go back to that last element. It is sometimes felt that the United Nations is placed on one side and the States on the other. What is happening mainly at the United Nations is meetings with representatives of States, with diplomats. The United Nations finally allows States to do what they want to do. If they do not want to do so, the United Nations has limited means of forcing them to do so. In any case, General Assembly resolutions are not binding. This is different from Security Council resolutions, but it has been accepted because, in the Charter of the United Nations, it is stated that the decisions of the Security Council are binding and it is stated that the resolutions of the General Assembly are not binding. I reiterate that the Covenant is not a legally binding instrument. It will ultimately be up to States to decide to take the actions they wish to achieve the objectives they have collectively recognized as important objectives. For the rest, it does not seem to me that there is a need, in any case legal, to adopt an interpretative declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u83	Mr President, Professor Lagerwall's speech fits perfectly within the framework of classical international law and international regulation. However, that sounds very '50s. Professor Wouters has already pointed it out to us, and Professor d'Argent added it in his last speech, that for many years there has been a great deal of evolution and that we are now far removed from the classic model of an international organisation, where the states are the actors. That is what I said this morning in my speech. Professor Wouters spoke about global governance and Professor d'Argent didn't think it was a figment of blurry professors this afternoon. That's what's going on. There is growing something like a superstate international order, where Professor Wouters has pointed out that it is far from clear where all these rules and input come from. He even talked about private organisms. Something like this is growing, and it's legal. I myself said this morning that, of course, states are not immediately bound by the migration pact. I said it wasn't a treaty. How could it bind states? That is not the point of discussion, but that does not mean that there are no legal consequences. Mrs Jadin, I also know that a United Nations General Assembly resolution is something other than a treaty. I went to college, too, so I know that. That is not the point, however. This effective transnational legal process creates something new. Mr Verherstraeten, what are the mechanisms? This is about constitutionalisation and supranationalisation. More and more is being understood in terms of fundamental rights. Rights are rights, so the final word lies with courts. Because it is about fundamental rights, all of which are related to international human rights instruments, often also treaties, the final decision is in the supranational sphere. That's the mechanism. Professor Peters of Max Planck has been quoted here twice this morning. I don't happen to have the text on me. Professor Peters is a little more nuanced than that. Enerzijds zegt zij: "This means that on the one hand, the Compact will not generate legally binding obligations but that it is on the other hand, not legally irrelevant." On the other hand, the sharp distinction between soft law and hard law that Professor Vuye mentioned is actually not correct either. Actually, that is confirmed here, because a bit further in the text it says: "A soft law can also substitute missing hard law. And indeed, to some extent the Migration Compact is a workaround for the very low status of ratification of the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of all Migrant Workers and Members of their Families of 1990, which has been ratified so far only by 34 States and among them no European target States of migration ' Professor Peters of the Max Planck Institute gives one example here, but there are many examples of how this compact is actually trying to work around the non-ratification of a 1990 treaty. In other words, a text no longer needs to be ratified, since states are not so important, which is why they work through the compact, judicial, constitutional and supranationalisation. In fact, that's the technique. I fully agree with your statement on the interpretative note in classical international legal thinking. I have myself pointed out that the status of an explanatory note or interpretative note, or whatever it may be called, is highly questionable, given that it is not a treaty. That's correct. I have also put the argument in my text that it might make sense, because the Migration Compact is going to be there anyway. The question then is what is in the interpretative note. I think we might be able to reschedule a hearing in three weeks or so, with these or with other experts. Then we can have the same discussion about the content of the interpretative note. After all, I do not think it is enough to say that the Migration Compact is not binding and what we want and what we do not. If I was asked to draw up an interpretative note, it would be different. With regard to the terms regular/irregular, a Bundestag resolution asks the Federal Government to insist that the distinction between legal and illegal should be restored in full force. But, as I said, that is just a request to the Federal Government. I think I answered the questions with that. By the way, I have to correct my statement this morning on compensation, because I just ate a sandwich.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-04-54-commissie-ic1006x.u84	If it stays with one sandwich, you'll be forgiven. All I have left is to thank our six experts. I have been sitting here for a long time and I have seen that my colleagues have sometimes followed not too simple statements with a lot of attention. In the name of all my colleagues to the six experts, thank you for coming and for the information you have provided us.
