ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u1	Madam Chair, having to ask two questions on the same subject, I will gather them together. Everyone will save time. Minister, I shall return once again to you regarding the replacement of our F-16s. In committee, you assured me that it was not legally possible to enter into negotiations with other parties under the F-16 replacement procedure. You then wanted to explain why the negotiations with France did not go any further. However, I was able to read in the press that a law firm had an entirely different analysis than yours. This firm believes that you could maintain the procedure while discussing with other parties, because the French proposal goes beyond what is required in the current procedure. On the other hand, France, by the voice of its ambassador, announced that Belgium would not be able to participate in the SCAF project if the F-35 was to be the government's choice. In addition, you were able to admire the various candidates at the Belgian Air Force meeting at Kleine-Brogel. You are aware that the deadline for offers is fast approaching. The United States Ambassador to Belgium reminded you of this event, stating that if the government did not take a decision before 14 October, the American offer would no longer appear in the same terms. Minister, I assume you know the external opinion. Does he question your decision not to continue negotiations with France? Is the SCAF project an option envisaged by you, your firm and the government for the future of the Belgian air force? What is the status of the government with regard to a new legal analysis, to which the Prime Minister spoke on 4 July, concerning the possibility of continuing negotiations with France at the same time as the current procedure so that all the options on the table have actually been integrated into the final choice of the government? Do you intend to present to the House the final note which will be debated in the government and which will relate to the various options, before a possible final decision is taken? Does the government still intend to make a final decision before October 14th? We have long called for consultation with the federated entities. Has such a consultation been initiated within this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u2	Madam President, Minister, on 15 June, already three months ago, the Prime Minister indicated that the NATO summit in June would not be a deadline for the replacement of the F-16s. According to the Prime Minister, there would be a minute analysis of the different options. In the meantime, we are three months further away and we do not hear so much about the replacement or renewal of our F-16 fleet. In this connection, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the current state of affairs in this dossier? Was the detailed investigation the Prime Minister mentioned already completed? If so, has it been discussed at government level? What's the result of it? In the meantime, the American ambassador has announced that the American offer is likely to expire on 14 October. Does that still apply? If the decision is not taken, there is a risk that negotiations will have to be resumed. When do you expect a decision in this file? Finally, so far you have maintained that the extension of the current F-16 fleet is impossible. However, not deciding is an automatic extension of our current fleet. Or will the aircraft be used less in the coming months or years, in order to obtain an extension in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u3	Madam President, Minister, the third advantage of speaking is that most of the questions have already been asked. I would like an answer from you to a few points. Firstly, Minister, I have been approached by journalists a few times in recent weeks. It seems to be rumored among journalists that a decision would have been taken in the context of the Summer Agreement in this file, but that the government has decided to take this decision formally just before or just after the municipal elections, given the expected electoral consequences that this decision could have. I told those journalists truthfully that I didn't know anything, but I promised them I would ask you the question. Is it true that the government has already made a decision on this matter? If so, when will it publish that decision? I would like to have an answer to this question with yes or no. Secondly, the Prime Minister has repeatedly said in the Chamber that he wants to give full transparency in this dossier. In both cases, if the decision has already been taken and even if it has not yet been taken, I believe that enough time has meanwhile passed so that the minute study, promised by yourself and the Prime Minister, to the three options: the extension of the F-16, the purchase in the framework of the RfGP and the French proposal would be over in the meantime. I believe that nothing prevents you, faithful to the Prime Minister's and yourself's promise to deliver those documents to the Chamber, so that the Defence Committee will be able to respond with knowledge when the government makes its decision. Thirdly, Mr Fernandez Fernandez has already pointed out that there is a clear contradiction between what you have said and what we read in the newspaper. A renowned law firm, Eubelius, one of the founders of which is Koen Geens, tells the opposite of what you have said. So I would very much like to see the legal study on which you base yourself, as well as the legal note by Eubelius, to determine who is right here. I await your answer with great anticipation. I hope that this government will do what it has promised in this century's largest military procurement dossier, particularly at the appropriate time and in full transparency, to give information to the Chamber. I do not intend to argue for a derogation from the Constitution. I know our Constitution, and I know that it is the government that decides. However, the Prime Minister and yourself have promised transparency in this dossier. The moment of truth has now come to see whether those words will also be converted into deeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u4	Madam President, I'm sorry I'm late. I imagine that most of the questions have already been asked about the state of the F-16 replacement. First of all, I am surprised by the words of the United States Ambassador in Brussels, who seems to be blackmailing the Belgian Government because he states that if there is no reply or decision by the Belgian Government before 14 October, the terms of the proposal will no longer be valid and everything will have to be renegotiated. I wanted to know the reaction of the Belgian Government to this form of ultimatum on the part of the Americans and, more generally, to see what is the status of the decision or procedure for replacing the F-16s. I am also surprised, photo in support, that during the Belgian Air Force Days, some anticipated the decision of the Belgian government since there were models with the evolution of the aircraft of our air force and that beyond the model of the F-16, the model of the F-35 was already exposed, it seems, anticipates the decision of the Belgian government. Clearly, at the level of the air force, we have already made our choice, and we are making a bit of a mockery of what political decision could be. The presence of this model is a bit curious. What does the minister think of this form of decision that goes beyond or circumvents the current procedure at the government level?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u5	Madam President, the replacement of the F-16 is an important file for maintaining air combat capability and the largest file from the Strategic Vision for Defence. I have indicated here several times that all the options are being studied by the government. It is true that tenders are never perpetual, that is not only true in this case, but important decisions require time and I am not going to be rushed by anyone. Externals can say what they think they should say about this. I have already explained, Mr Top, that the RfGP takes account of the phasing-out of the F-16 fleet. That, of course, remains the case. Mr van der Maelen, once the government has made a decision, an agreement from state to state will be signed. The further modalities of implementation depend on the candidate. As you say, I have always stated in committee that we will give all possible transparency to the Chamber at the right time, but we still have to look at the kind of meeting that can take place. Mrs Fernandez, Mr Van der Maelen, my department has four legal opinions, some from the Defence Staff, others from external offices to which we had commissioned a study. They share the same point of view, which I have already developed. I, too, saw in the press the mention of a notice from a law firm. I didn't order it, I didn't receive it, and I didn't – much less – read it. Therefore, I cannot comment on it. Mr. Dallemagne, you're asking me about the Belgian Air Force Days. I will be clear: for years, Defence has been subject to a code of ethics for public procurement. It states that a company involved in a public procurement cannot sponsor a defence event, in this case the Kleine-Brogel unit, provided that all candidates are treated equally and that sponsorship is proportional to the size of the company. Sponsoring is not a gift, but allows – depending on the package purchased – visibility through a stand as well as entry cards and other modalities to be discussed between the organiser – namely, here, Kleine-Brogel's base – and the sponsor concerned. In total, twenty companies sponsored the Belgian Air Force Days, which welcomed seventy-two thousand visitors. This is a major event in Europe. Sponsoring offers an opportunity in terms of visibility to the companies in question. Finally, you should be aware that sponsorship is primarily used to offset the costs of the organization and that profits are donated to non-profit or charitable associations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u6	Madam Chair, I am happy, or sad, to realize that the holidays have not changed since, in the many questions I have just asked the minister, I have received very few answers. I feel like during those few weeks of truce, the file didn't mature. Minister, if I have not been distracted, I have not been assured by you that a decision will be taken by 14 October. As in the past, I am concerned about your lack of curiosity, since I understand that you have not received legal advice. In the face of a case of such magnitude, concerning such amounts, and when you know that a legal opinion exists, you could have, out of curiosity, asked to consult it. I can understand that you're full of certainties. It's your most absolute right. But now you're playing with millions of euros from the Belgians. I hear you have four legal opinions. If you are certain of the validity of the four legal opinions, you should not fear a bit of curiosity to consult a fifth. Once again, I'm still hungry. I regret the lightness I feel about managing this case. Let us remember that this is still the market of the century.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u7	Minister, like my colleague, I have to say that there has not been much change in this dossier, in the sense that we still do not have clear answers. Mr Van der Maelen, it would be a false alarm if a decision had already been taken. After all, when the Minister says that all the options are being examined, it means that this is not yet finished. It is difficult to make a decision if not all options have been carefully examined. I wonder when this will be done if the Council of Ministers is to be able to take a decision on this matter. Then, Minister, you will answer the question about the expiry date of 14 October, which means that you will not be rushed so quickly. I doubt that sometimes. The American ambassador spoke about the American offer, which ends on 14 October. I thought somewhere in the Americans' proposal there was an end date of validity of the offer. If that is not the case, then one can ask questions about the thoroughness with which the document was drawn up. You said you wouldn't be chased by people standing next to the file, then the American ambassador is also one of those who think he doesn't really know much about it. You said the American ambassador wouldn't put you on the run. I'll establish this. It was once said, in the press or in a previous committee meeting, that the date of 14 October was indicated by the Americans. For the other offer, the Eurofighter, that would be at the end of 2018 or early 2019. What is it, anyway? Do you know what's going on today? Is this part of your meticulous research and are you still looking for the validity date, in addition to the answers to the other questions? The lack of clarity in this dossier is increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u8	Madam President, first of all I would like to raise a personal statement and address myself to Mr Top. Mr Top, you really need to stop putting words in my mouth. I said I wouldn't let anyone outside the government or my staff hunt me down. If you interpret that as if I were blaming this or that ambassador, you do so, but I would formally say for the report that this has not been the case. Moreover, when the American ambassador made his statement, I made it very clear in the media that the various candidates had the opportunity to explain the conditions under which their file was bound when they submitted their tender on 14 February 2018. You all read the newspapers; I get a lot of questions about what's in the newspapers, whether that's true or not. So there are no new things being said. So we must not be rushed. We are aware of the situation and the government will make its decision when the time is right. Mr Van der Maelen asked for a yes or a no, now I say clearly no.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u9	Minister, I have repeated your words, as you have said and repeated them here. You said you wouldn't be rushed, and I made the link. You will not be rushed and therefore 14 October is apparently not a deadline for you. All I can tell you is that the American ambassador did declare that date. So I want to hear from you whether according to the Americans' quote, October 14th is the deadline or not? That's the question I asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u10	Mr Top, I repeat that in an ongoing procedure it is not allowed to disclose data on the content of a dossier. How many times do I have to repeat that? I understand that you are doing this in a different way and in the past, but I repeat that we are in an ongoing procedure. Until the decision has been taken and we come to Parliament with all the information and in all transparency, I cannot release any data from any file. How many times do I have to repeat that? I realize that you see it differently, that you or Mrs Fernandez Fernandez think that I should incorporate the advice of everyone who puts one out of his hat into my file; that Mr Van der Maelen thinks that I should listen to a frustrated retired colonel, who probably knows how many chains are in a tank, but has never seen a plane up close. Come on! It's been good now. We have dealt with the dossier in the most objective way possible and we will make a decision in the most objective way possible, ensuring that we maintain our air fighting capacity for the future. The fact that you say we don't need that air combat capability is your right, but please stop hanging on to all sorts of things, because it isn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u11	Minister, I have just told you that you do not have to rush: the committee meets the first time and it is already there. You're dragging back a lot of things that have nothing to do with it. You are talking about an objective approach, but I have not yet seen it. We want to be objectively informed about the state of play. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u12	I would like to know whether the Minister of Defence thinks that Prime Minister Michel is also an old pensioner frustrated because on 4 July, Mr Michel said, and I repeat the record of the House committee: "it is on this subject that a legal point is currently being analysed because we would not only like it because we would, if necessary, have validated confidentiality agreements...", etc. So it was the Prime Minister himself who announced on July 4 that a legal point was being analysed. So, excuse me, it is normal for Parliament to do its job and come and see what this legal analysis is all about a few weeks later. You can get angry and consider that some are frustrated. The frustration is now felt by Parliament, which does not receive an answer, Minister, on an important issue. I can hear what you're saying about confidentiality. From the beginning, I say: within the framework you have set yourself, you are in tune with yourself. What I blame you for is the lack of curiosity about what's on the side. I do not understand the difficulty in telling us that the deadline of 14 October will be respected or not. It's not a new file, we've been talking about it for weeks. We analyzed it in every way. It is therefore worrying that we cannot be told today whether or not a decision will fall in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u13	First of all, the Prime Minister is not a retired colonel. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u14	I understand you weren't talking about him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u15	And I don't think he's frustrated, Mrs. Fernandez Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u16	I hope so for him. That would be a shame. Even if I think he has reason to be. But you say that there is an old frustrated colonel who gives an opinion; I am simply referring to the fact that a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister himself said that a legal opinion had been requested. I don't know if the fact of legal advice is a source of frustration...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u17	I have confirmed to you that I have four legal opinions. For me, it's important to settle everything legally. And equality, objectivity itself. That's what I meant. With regard to the Eubelius study, it was not commissioned by me, it was not presented to me and I do not know the content of it. You always say you have to be curious, etc. I appeal to the experts and ask for legal advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u18	Minister, I can hear what you're telling me. I have to admit, you're in your line. I don't know if it's because you're monomaniac, but you're in your line. I understand that. However, this is a case for millions of euros over decades. An external legal opinion, which you certainly did not order, exists, is on the table, has benefited from publicity. Minister, excuse me. I understand what you're telling me, but perhaps objectivity is also to consult opinions that you haven't asked for. One might say, if you only consult what you asked for, that you do not take into account the different opinions that are given to you outside. That raises the question. I don't understand. You look very sure about the four legal opinions that were given to you. All right. But I understand all the less your difficulty in consulting a fifth opinion, which exists, which is there and which seems to benefit from a certain amount of credit from some.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. You have told us that the government has not yet taken a decision on the matter. However, I did not receive an answer to the other question raised by me. Is it true or not that the government will take a decision before 14 October 2018? Can you answer that question with yes or no?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u20	Mr Van der Maelen, I can tell you that I am not Madame Soleil and have no glass ball.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u21	So, Minister, that means that there are no agreements in the government on the timing of the decision. That's what I'm distracting from your answer. I have one last point. I come back to the Prime Minister's statements of 4 July 2018. I quote the Prime Minister: 'The government has given the experts a mandate to examine three points. That is RfGP, extension and the French proposal." We're almost two and a half months later now. Even though there is a month's vacation there I consider it broad, I can't imagine that the experts haven't finished their work yet. I believe that the results of the mandate given to the experts are on the government table. I quote another statement from the Prime Minister on page 37 of the report: 'We will provide Parliament with information regularly, but the government will not give up the decision-making process in accordance with the Constitution'. I have just indicated that I take note of the fact that the government itself will take the decision. I repeat, however, that the Prime Minister has made it clear that the government will provide Parliament with the information regularly. I read the following: 'as it is available to the government'. I see you're refusing to do that. I therefore urge you once again. The Prime Minister and yourself have always stated that the government will cooperate with Parliament in full transparency on the decision-making of the dossier. However, I note that we are not getting the information. You yourself stated that there are four legal studies. They're available. I suggest you give us those studies. For ourselves, at the time when the government will have taken the decision, we want to know how legally strong the government is if it is hypothetically opting for the French proposal. I am not in favour of the French proposal; my proposal is a postponement of the decision. I would like to know, if the government makes a decision, whether the French proposal was rightly excluded with sufficient legal basis. It's about the most important military purchase file of the century. I ask that the government keep its promise to Parliament and offer the promised transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u22	Mr van der Maelen, I would like to repeat that we are in an ongoing procedure. We are having an open discussion in committee on what is or is not possible. If you cannot understand that documents from files cannot be released in an ongoing procedure, I regret that. You can call that a lack of transparency, but I call it the responsibility to bring a dossier to its conclusion. I am well aware that this is a very important decision, as I said in the first sentence of my reply. The decision will determine how it will be with our air combat capability in the next thirty to forty years. In this context, as Mrs Fernandez Fernandez has also pointed out, it is impossible for us to disclose data from pending dossiers. You may be able to put forward proposals to amend the law on public procurement, but perhaps decisions will be taken behind corners or in the corridors or in advance, on the basis of elements that are not in the file. In any case, I am in favour of clearly finishing the dossier, as I have already said. We place all available information on the government table; then the government can discuss it and will make a well-considered and important decision. Once that decision has been taken, it will be communicated to Parliament so that Parliament can debate it. The documents can therefore be viewed, as far as possible, in so far as the documents do not contain any confidentiality clauses, as the Prime Minister pointed out. There are elements that need to be taken into account when investing in safety equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u23	Minister, I would like to respond briefly in two points. If you are right and there is nothing in the file that can be communicated to Parliament, then I wonder why the Prime Minister has promised transparency. I once enjoyed a training as a lawyer. So I can understand that there are problems with elements of the RfGP. But the study on the possible extension of the lifetime of the F-16 has nothing to do with that. I would like to see that minute study on the extension option. I'm sure it's round and ready for the government. Why can't we have it? This also applies to the debate on whether or not the French proposal is legally valid and whether or not it can be taken into account in a government decision. That has nothing to do with the RfGP procedure. The government, through the Prime Minister and yourself, has several times promised transparency and the possibility of full cooperation from Parliament. If you do not give us any information on these two elements, the study on the extension and the dispute over the legal or non-legal feasibility of the French proposal, then I note that you will return to your commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u24	Mr van der Maelen, both the Prime Minister and myself have reiterated that we look at all the elements together, that none of these elements can be looked at separately, that we will make a properly prepared decision on the whole and at that time we will also share all the information that can be shared. I can repeat it 20 more times. You're trying to pick a piece from a whole file here and there. You can keep trying. I am well aware that your press release is already ready, but it just doesn't make any sense anymore. The government is preparing its decision, as promised, and will, when the time is right, inform and involve Parliament itself in your question. We will. That is the promise we will keep.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u25	I shall read again what the Prime Minister said: 'We will provide Parliament with the information regularly, but the government will not give up the decision-making process in accordance with the Constitution'. But that's not gonna happen. A number of MEPs are asking here, on the basis of the government's commitment, for information on the study on the extension of the lifetime of the F-16 and documentation on the legal feasibility of the French proposal, which have nothing to do with the RfGP procedure as such. If not, this is not the first time that the government has aired fine words for the gallery and then has no effect on it. I will repeat that sentence. The Prime Minister has regularly promised us information and you will not give it to us. That's what I'm establishing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u26	The Prime Minister has regularly promised you information. I haven't received a question from you since the verdict and now. I am telling you very clearly today: no, there is no new decision. So there are no new elements to share. If you say you want to be regularly informed, is that every three hours, is that every week, is that every month? If decisions are taken, we will inform you as far as possible, but there is nothing to tell now. You're asking me if a decision has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u27	You said yourself that there are four legal studies. Why don't we get it? We will draw our own conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u28	Because they are part of the dossier in preparation for a decision in the Council of Ministers. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u29	It has nothing to do with the procedure. So the Prime Minister's promise and yourself were hollow words.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u30	That's right, minister, I don't understand why these legal offers are part of the case. In fact, they are offers that analyze, beyond the issue, the full range of opportunities available to the government simply to see what are the possible ways and options on the table. I therefore do not understand why Parliament is not informed of all the options that are still open for the future with regard to the replacement of the F-16. So I can't follow you on that argument. Since we don't have an answer, I can only make a hypothesis. A decision before October 14 seems highly unlikely. I'll tell you why. On the one hand, this intervention by the Embassy of the United States makes the case particularly difficult. It's a blackmail from a friend of Trump's. I recall that he funded his campaign, that he was appointed governor by Trump and that he was appointed here by Trump. It's one of Trump's first circle hawks. We know today how difficult it is not only for Europeans in general, for our trade in particular, and for a whole series of issues, but also how weak it is in the United States and how badly it would be in our international relations. On the other hand, a decision before 14 October would not fail to provoke a serious controversy in Belgium precisely because of this context. If there is a decision, we can hear it and see it well with this model at the Belgian Air Force Days, it would be in favour of the F-35. The N-VA never hid from it. It is not expected that such a highly political and highly sensitive decision will be taken before 14 October. This means, Mr. Minister of Defence, that in reality the whole procedure is on the ground since the Americans themselves announce that they are leaving the procedure, that their conditions are changed, that they are no longer valid and that the offers they have made in a variety of fields, whether in terms of price, training, industrial returns, etc., that all this has no validity and that they will completely reformulate their offer. If their offer is no longer valid, they even leave the RfGP. There is therefore no other choice than the Eurofighter according to the reasoning you have held since the beginning in this file, namely that only the RfGP counted. I think that we are wasting time and that it would be better to reopen the whole case and ensure that we no longer have any false leaks in relation to this procedure, that we admit that today it is in the rut, that it does not correspond to the stakes of European Defence nor to the geopolitical stakes nor to Belgium's interests. Let us reopen this file to ensure that we finally have a procedure that addresses these issues! I think we better stop wasting time, stop putting our heads in the sand and come to that conclusion. It is the Americans themselves today who are forcing us out of the procedure you had chosen from the outset and to reopen this matter calmly and properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u31	Mr Hellings, you have not been able to ask your question, but you are entitled to a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u32	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, but I was stuck in an elevator.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u33	It's the government's fault!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u34	No, not at all. It's an elevator in Parliament, Mr Van der Maelen. Minister, I heard your answer. As for the Belgian Air Force Days, you mentioned twenty sponsors. Two and a half firms are terribly involved in an ongoing public procurement. It seems to me that the minimum – and I share the view expressed in the Dutch-speaking press by Messrs. Vandenput and Bogaert – is to respect a period of caution. One month before the final decision, it would have been better if Lockheed Martin, Dassault and Eurofighter could not finance a defence event. Then it was the Prime Minister – or, in any case, his cabinet – who said that October 14 was a deadline. It was not only Lockheed Martin who supported him. I refer to La Libre Belgique of 15 June, in which the Prime Minister's office declared that the American agency had submitted a proposal valid until that date. This poses an additional risk to the current market. Indeed, the legal and budgetary impact of the crucial decision to be taken – which concerns not millions, but billions of euros, Mrs Fernandez – could prove enormous. This decision will be made under the pressure of the most powerful military-industrial complex in the world, which is American. In other words, with the continuation of the RfGP, our government is in a situation similar to that experienced by the British government with its Brexit negotiation, with a knee on the ground and subject to the pressure of the world's largest arms manufacturer. I also agree with Mr Dallemagne. Indeed, the procedure must be stopped, apart from which the French offer is clearly situated. Your four or five legal opinions will tell you. So this case is not well-set. Moreover, only one legal opinion would have been sufficient. That is why I believe that it is high time to activate clause 8 of the RfGP and to return on a sound basis in order to prevent the Belgian State from incuring such a colossal budgetary risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u35	Minister, already under the previous legislature, my group was questioning the use of temporary outsourced exhibitions within the Royal Army Museum (RMA) rather than its internal resources and expertise. It must be noted that the War Heritage Institute unfortunately seems to continue with this logic. This, in charge of the MRA, provides for the installation of a one-year temporary exhibition, the press of which has recently echoed. Of course, the project of a temporary exhibition is not to be called into question. It is up to the federal state to carry out its memory work missions – in this year of commemoration of the end of the First World War, moreover – by allocating sufficient resources. My questions therefore concern the form rather than the substance and the indisputable opportunity to make such an exhibition in our capital at the MRA. However, one can ask the question of the cost of such a temporary exhibition, which, by definition, is intended to be dismantled in the long term, while the 14-18 collection and the buildings need heavy and structural investments to ensure the museum's sustainability and the integrity of its collections. You said this yourself in March here in committee: "Those who go to the Army Museum can see that some structures of the buildings are in poor condition, which is of a nature, if nothing changes, to cause irremediable damage to the pieces of collection that are exposed to them." I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions: Did you call on an outside firm to carry out such an exhibition? If so, how do you justify such outsourcing and the format of a temporary exhibition, rather than investing these budgets in renovations and structural development of MRA collections and facilities? Finally, can you indicate the details and cost of this exhibition and where these budgets come from? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u36	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I like ideological questions. What is at issue here is whether our memory task is to be carried out by ourselves or whether experts and other outsiders can be called upon. I don't know if you've visited the Royal Army Museum in recent years. When I became a minister, I was able to see, in what had been passed on to me at that time, what the "everything done by ourselves" is worth, with all the problems involved. That said, the 1918-1928 exhibition, which was called "Beyond the Great War", at the opening of which I would like to invite you tomorrow evening, was mostly done by the staff of the War Heritage Institute (WHI). However, two external firms were involved. One was responsible for the design and plans of the exhibition, and one was responsible for the decorations of the exhibition. This exhibition is the main project to close the centennial celebrations of the First World War. In addition to this, two main explanations should be given for the investment in this temporary exposure. First, in general, a museum cannot live only from its permanent exhibitions. As beautiful as it is, a little work remains to be done. Whatever its number of rooms, it must renew itself to provide new content to the public who have already visited it. Temporary exhibitions also attract a new audience and gain visibility through the advertising budget of such an exhibition. Secondly, the budgets requested for the renovation of the buildings and the scenography are of a different order than those necessary for the realization of a temporary exhibition, especially since part of the equipment intended for the exhibition can be recovered. The temporary exhibition I have already mentioned has a budget of approximately EUR 1 million: EUR 800,000 for the exhibition, plus EUR 100 000 for communication and EUR 100 000 for the production of a catalogue. Currently, the National Lottery subsidizes this project to a maximum of 400,000 euros. The rest of the budget is covered by the WHI. In the case of an exhibition carried out with the means of the WHI, part of these investments will go to the MRA, i.e. that part of the materials used, showcases or shelves, can be recovered for permanent use. I will conclude with an appeal addressed to you, your group and the Brussels regional leaders. We have to work together to put the MRA back in the state it deserves, and stop the political games to try to find a future for this museum. It is very important for Defence, for memory, for the education of our children. He deserves much more than what he has today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u37	Minister, thank you for your complete answers and for the invitation. See, I've been paying attention. I'll obviously try to be there. I repeat that the purpose of my question is in no way to question the advisability of temporary exhibitions. On the contrary, we support them. The duty of memory is important. You know I'm asking you about this. This obviously requires funds: it is the price of democracy, the maintenance of democracy and the preservation of memory, which is clearly lacking to some, especially within your own political formation. I'm reassured about the recovery of the equipment. That was our concern, since, as you said yourself, these are important investments. I am pleased that this attention is being paid to the recovery of the equipment. I welcome the initiative and thank you for it. I heard your call and I'll relay it. Minister, for me, as for my group and my party, working with the federated entities is essential in this matter, for the entire management of the country. I have no doubt that you will not fail to relay this call within your political formation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u38	Mr Minister, I was able to read recently in the press that the communal elections were going to be a major test for the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS) in the field of cyber defence, particularly in the context of potential Russian interference. Recently, Lieutenant-General Claude Van de Voorde explained that he had reviewed the functioning of the SSRS and opted for a reconciliation with the Sûreté. Within this framework, a strategic intelligence plan has been developed to define the jurisdiction of each department, including in the area of anti-terrorism. Minister, does the SGRS have the technical and human resources to deal with potential interference in the upcoming communal elections? Is cooperation with the authorities responsible for organising elections in place? What about collaboration with the Sûreté? Has an evaluation already taken place?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u39	Minister, on 13 June last, I asked you about the threat of Russian cyberattacks in the context of the forthcoming elections in Belgium. In your answer, you told me that there was a threat and you assured me that an interdepartmental strategy was going to be put in place and that the SGRS was being prepared for cyberattacks. Minister, what is the status of the establishment of this interdepartmental unit? Is the threat proven? What kind of threat is this? Have there ever been attempts to manipulate public opinion in the context of the October 2018 communal elections or the May 2019 regional, European and federal elections? Furthermore, in his speech of 12 September on the state of the Union, the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, recalled the need to ''protect the organisation of free and fair elections''. It has therefore announced the introduction of new rules to "better protect our democratic processes from manipulation by third countries or private interests". It is clear that the European Union takes the protection of the democratic process very seriously in the forthcoming elections. Mr Minister, is there any cooperation between the EU and the Member States on this issue? Is Belgium participating? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u40	Colleagues, the SGRS is implementing the technical and human resources available to deal with this potential threat. The threats of cyberattacks are complex, real and have already been identified in other countries. They are taken care of in cooperation with the various departments concerned. In this specific area, the SGRS maintains close cooperation with the State Security. In fact, an interdepartmental cell was created. This cell now has roadmaps, with concrete actions that cannot be disclosed for reasons of confidentiality, you will understand it. This is an example of cooperation between the two intelligence and security services among those currently being developed. Indeed, in the context of the development of the National Strategic Intelligence Plan and the creation of the common platform to enhance synergies between the SGRS and the State Security, various joint projects have been identified. Thus, at the operational level, joint teams composed of staff from both units could be deployed in the field. These projects also include increased cooperation on different sources of information production and mutual access to the respective databases. These are perfectly in line with the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Brussels bombings. These projects are not limited to the area of counter-terrorism. A monitoring committee and liaison officers shall provide the necessary support for these various projects and shall carry out at least a monthly evaluation of the progress achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u42	Minister, thank you. You speak of a potential threat in Belgium and you refer to attacks in other countries. Is it understandable that there was no attack in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u43	Lieutenant-General Van de Voorde said that there had been attacks in Belgium but we are not going to communicate on this subject for reasons...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u44	I'm not asking for the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u45	We are taking steps to prevent a potential threat from becoming an effective threat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u46	You're telling me Lieutenant-General Van de Voorde confirmed that there were real attacks. Without going into detail, I think it is important for the population to be vigilant. And it will be all the more so as the threat is proven and the risk is real. It is important that there is a minimum of information in this regard. You say that there is a roadmap with concrete actions and that you are not going to give the details. Again, I believe that an information strategy will still have to be put in place. If election candidates or parties are attacked or some are supported from abroad, it is very important that there is a minimum amount of information given to parties, candidates and the public in relation to manipulation, fake news or instrumentalization. I understand the discretion, but I think we need a strategy, without going into the details of the attacks. There must be a level of vigilance commensurate with this threat to our democratic processes. These threats are extremely serious for the future because they could seriously weaken democracies. I'll come back to you because I think we need a level of information. I appeal to the government on this information strategy for political parties and the media as a whole, which will be capable of correcting or confronting this type of attack. The second point I would like to draw your attention to, Minister, is that, in order to keep a close eye on intelligence and security issues for a long time, I am still very alarmed by the level of resources and resources that the government has devoted to these issues. These resources are notoriously insufficient. When one takes a break-even point in relation to the surrounding countries, one is far below the resources that should be devoted to this. I really ask you, given the fact that Brussels and Belgium are targets for certain attacks and manipulations, to be attentive to the level of resources devoted to this issue. I will also go back to that because it seems to me to be a very important issue for our security and for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u47	Madam President, Minister, during the months of July and August, the 550 soldiers of Operation Vigilant Guardian (OVG) had to work under temperatures around 35°C, and with equipment that could weigh no less than 35 kilos. At the beginning of the GVO, a risk analysis had been conducted. As a result, the Defence had distributed combat shirts (long-sleeved khaki high under the bulletproof vest) to protect the military from sunburn. This outfit also had the advantage of being less warm than the traditional one. Apart from this slight improvement and more frequent supplies, however, military personnel continue to wear their usual patrol equipment. Only lipsticks and sunscreen were also provided. On the other hand, not all soldiers would have received their shirt fights because of stock problems, at least according to the press. Minister, what steps do you intend to take to provide all our soldiers with their shirts, as soon as possible? Have you undertaken any reflection on these equipments within the framework of the OVG, with a view to ensuring the safety of the military and allowing them to adapt to the climatic conditions of this summer, so that the legislation on well-being at work is effectively respected by the Defence? Let me turn to my second set of questions. The press recently reported that, starting in September, the military would gradually disappear from railway stations and metro stations. If you have indicated that the reduction of military patrols would take place in consultation with the police and security services and would not be at the expense of security, it must nevertheless be noted that, in fact, the local authorities do not yet seem to be seeing anything on the horizon in terms of the recruitment of police officers. Minister, can you provide an update on Operation Vigilant Guardian on September 30, 2018? In other words, how many military personnel will be deployed, in which cities and for which missions? What about the weeks and months that follow at the Defence level? What is the status of the payment of invoices sent by your department to the Inland FPS? How much do these invoices represent for Defence? What is the status of coordination between your Ministry, the Internal FPS and the local authorities concerned in order to ensure that this reduction in the number of deployed military personnel is not carried out at the expense of security due to the lack of recruitment of police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u48	Madam Chair, Mr. Chabot, as part of the heat wave observed this summer, a series of measures were taken to ensure the well-being of the military members involved in Operation OVG. Thus, three shirt fights are systematically distributed to each member participating in this operation. If a member has not received this equipment, his unit may order it. The stocks available within Defence are sufficient to meet needs and are sufficient. Additional quantities of drinking water can be ordered by the various detachments. The staff also received products such as sunscreen, anti-moss lotion, lipstick, moisturizer and hydro-alcoholic gel. Finally, each detachment organizes the different shifts at its level and can adapt the schedules to allow, if necessary, more regular breaks. The number of military personnel in support of the police is currently limited to 550. In accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers, the military is currently deployed in Antwerp, Brussels, and at the airports of Zaventem and Gosselies. Defence does not decide on the number or location of military personnel deployed. This is done by the police carrying out the security analysis. The potential reduction in the number of military personnel is based on a security analysis, which is discussed in consultation with partners. Finally, it must be validated by the Council of Ministers. For the financing of the OVG mission, Defence uses the interdepartmental provision of Terrorism. Expenditure on variable staff and operating costs amounts to EUR 18.8 million for the first half of 2018. For the time being, 18 million from the interdepartmental provision of Terrorism have already been distributed to the Defence budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u49	Minister, thank you for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u50	Madam President, Minister, the press informs us that a few dozen soldiers have applied for a medal for their actions undertaken during the various events related to terrorism in Belgium, in particular with the aim of honouring the courage that these soldiers have had in these difficult moments that have deeply affected our nation. However, the Defence has taken the decision not to comply with their request because it does not wish to maintain "this cult of heroism". So, Minister, can you tell us what are the specific conditions for granting or refusing such medals? In the face of this news, has there been any reflection within your department for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u51	Madam President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, the rules and procedures for granting military decoration to exceptional services or acts of courage or dedication are set out in the Royal Decree of 8 July 1952 on the granting of military decoration. The rules and procedures for granting the various honours are also reflected in a military regulation. It is also necessary to take into account the case law, in which cases a medal has been awarded in the past. All proposals and requests have been carefully and carefully considered with the necessary objectivity. It is clear that this decision does not detract from the unanimous recognition of the professionalism of these military personnel, as is the case with other military personnel. I would remind you that a medal was created a few months ago for all military personnel operating both abroad and in Belgium. A special day was organised on the Grand Place in Brussels to thank them in an official and respectful way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u52	Minister, thank you. I was obviously informed of this day, to which, unfortunately, the representatives of the citizens were not invited. However, it seemed appropriate to me. I understand that the criteria have been met. You refer to a royal decree of 1952. I'm thinking, since then, the world has changed and maybe we should see it again or rethink it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u53	Madam, Mr Bogaert's question was not answered. You know that, while I have made changes, these do not relate to the Royal Decree of 1952. The difficulty with such decrees is that they have always been the result of the balances sought. Let's try to objectify why a decoration is awarded. For me, it is really difficult to change the qualitative aspects. On the other hand, I decided that, as of 1 October, the decorations, which were previously to be paid by the military, would be sent to them free of charge. This will be taken over by the Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u54	The idea is not to argue. I welcome the initiative you have just mentioned. That seems important to me. Simply, if I say the world has changed, it is because we know that public safety officials, police officers or the military, are privileged targets. There would be some thought to have about it. Perhaps they were not exposed the same way before. I am very committed to keeping public safety in the public service. That would deserve special attention. I hear you've got it. You just proved it. You talked about the event. I understand that balances are difficult to respect and that attitudes are sometimes difficult to change. You will understand that the attachment I have just spoken to you has prompted me to question you on the subject. Thank you for the efforts already made and for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u55	Minister, you reminded us that the number of military personnel deployed under Operation Vigilant Guardian (OVG) was 550. By 2016, the number of troops had reached 1,828, following the attacks in Brussels. At the end of September, the number of military personnel could decrease further, following the next threat assessment by the National Security Council. These should then be replaced by officers from the future Federal Police Security Directorate, the "DAB". In this perspective, the future Federal Police Security Directorate should have 1,600 full-time equivalents. However, this quota seems difficult to achieve, in particular because of a very low success rate in the selection tests. According to Vincent Gilles, president of SLFP Police, only 290 full-time equivalents have currently passed the exams. On the other hand, according to him, although civilian candidates are welcome, a significant number of positions are intended for voluntary military personnel at the end of their careers, who no longer have prospects for military advancement. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you provide an update on the number of military personnel – and their corresponding status – who have already passed through the BAD to date? Are all military positions in this framework now filled? What is the success rate of members interested in this reorientation to civilian within the BAD? What will be the operational impact for Defence of the possible departures of volunteers to the federal police while attrition remains extremely worrying in our armed forces? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u56	Mr Chabot, first of all, you know that the status of the DAB is not a matter for me, but for my colleague Mr Jambon. Within the DAB, there are no functions identified as having to be performed absolutely by former military personnel. However, a mechanism has been put in place to enable them to be recruited, mainly with a view to enabling BDL soldiers (beperkte duur – limited duration) who wish to pursue a career in the field of security, to slide towards the DAB. This, of course, after having given the minimum period to the Defence. The first BDL military will be in these conditions in 2019. In the meantime, the general rules on external mobility apply. This means that a member with a career of at least twenty years, can make a transition to the DAB. In this context and taking into account the compensatory recruitment carried out, a maximum of 150 military personnel could be transferred to the DAB in 2018, this year. In the first appeal, 73 military personnel applied and 28 were eventually retained by the Federal Police and are or will be required to take DAB training. The success rate is thus 38% for this first call. For the second appeal, today, 21 candidates are counted and the selection is currently under way. The departure of these personnel from the volunteer category has been anticipated. For example, recruitment had been increased preventively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u57	Minister, thank you for these explanations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u58	Madam President, Minister, in parallel with the replacement of the F-16s, you have another issue on the table: that of the partnership with France concerning the renewal of vehicles of the Earth component, which, too, corresponds to a fairly large amount of investments included in the military programming law. In this regard, France has launched new studies aimed at improving the Scorpion programme in which you have been interested. These studies include the use of drones and robots. So, Minister, what is the current status of the Franco-Belgian partnership on the Scorpion programme? What is the current status of this issue? Are drones and robots part of the agreements between our two countries? Are Belgian companies involved in the implementation of the partnership as reflected in the military programming law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u59	Madam President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, the award dossier concerning the Franco-Belgian partnership on the renewal of vehicles of the Earth component, known as CAMO (Powered Capacity), is almost ready to reach the decision stage with the Council of Ministers. In the current phase, drones and robots are not part of the program. With the purchase of these vehicles, the Earth component is embarking on a cooperation with France, which goes far beyond the material aspect. It is also an operational cooperation. As regards the material aspect, it was decided not to invoke Article 346 of the Treaty of the European Union concerning essential security interests. From the beginning of the programme, clear signals revealed that Belgian companies could be linked to the programme, given the large number of vehicles Belgium wanted to buy compared to the entire programme. In collaboration with the SPF Economy, Defence facilitated contacts between the manufacturer and the Belgian industry. You will understand that until the contract is signed, it is impossible for me to go into more detail on this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers. I once again understand your concern for discretion in ongoing cases, but I would like to echo what you told me earlier about a consultation of the federated entities on the MRA. In this case, a number of Belgian companies are interested, some of which come from the region of Liège which is mine, and may have an interest in this matter as much as a contribution to it, I grant it to you. Therefore, I would like to refer you to the call you made earlier, aimed at working with and consulting with the federated entities, for the sake of this and others.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u61	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 26916 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u62	Madam President, Minister, a while ago we were able to read in the press that the centre in Steenokkerzeel will be equipped with a national administrative centre where all the transmigrants will be locked up, no matter where the police are arrested. It was also said that the army would be called in to take the transmigrants to the center. Hence the following questions for clarification. How exactly will transport and security proceed? Who gives what order in this matter? Is that the army and the federal police or maybe the local police zones? Are both the army and the police deployed for that transport? What is the precise division of labour? Who pays the bill in the end? Will work be done in a similar way to military building security?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u63	Madam President, Mr Top, your question was brief, my answer will be even shorter. Defense is not involved in the transport of transmigrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u64	Mr. Secretary, it was suggested that the Defense Department...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u65	I would like to make it very clear to you that the DOD is not involved in the transport of migrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u66	Until today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic960x.u67	Like I said earlier, I don't have a glass ball and I'm not Madame Soleil. We are not involved in the transport of transmigrants.
