ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u1	Minister, I would like to ask you about the 2018 tax controls. According to some information, the result of tax controls has increased from EUR 1 billion to EUR 120 million in four years. The number of checks is said to have decreased from 60,000 to 13,000. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Can you give me details of the number of controls and their revenues for the last four years? How do you explain this decrease?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u2	Minister, a few days after a discussion with tax auditors, in which they told me of a growing deterioration in their working conditions and a decrease in their motivation, the press published statistics indicating a sharp decrease in the performance of tax controls. According to Het Laatste Nieuws of May 7, which quoted the figures of the FPS Finances, the results of the announced tax controls have fallen in four years, from 1 billion to 120 million euros. Also in four years, the number of checks has increased from 60,000 to 13,000. Minister, do you confirm these figures? If so, to which years do they relate? If not, what is the number of controls and their performance for the last four years? In response to my written question no.700 of December 30, 2015, you indicated that 3,768 full-time equivalents had been assigned to fiscal control that year, including in the control process and the management process. Can you provide me with data for 2016, 2017 and 2018? How do you explain the decline in return in the fight against tax fraud? Why is the number of controls decreasing? Are they more thorough or is it because of the lack of staff, or for a third reason? In 2016, local selections accounted for less than a quarter of the total files selected for control. I am reminded of the echoes on the ground that this proportion would continue to decrease. Do you confirm that? Is this not a cause of the decrease in the performance of controls, since local selections generally have one that is superior to central selections? Did you take into account this decrease in the performance of controls in the budgetary adjustment under review in the House, since the budget was not based on a decrease, but rather on an increase in revenue generated by the fight against tax evasion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u3	Mr Crusnière and Mr Van Hees, some time ago, information on the results of certain tax controls was indeed disseminated in the press. This information, sometimes misinterpreted by some commentators, reported a staggering drop in the performance of the controls conducted by the General Tax Administration, from €1 billion in 2013 to €120 million in 2017. I therefore find it necessary to specify in detail what results the figures published in the press relate to, as well as the overall results of the tax checks carried out by the General Tax Administration between 2013 and 2017. Each year, the Commission proactively communicates a list of control actions to be carried out during the year by its departments. The actions which are the subject of such a communication therefore represent only part of the annual inspections. On the other hand, depending on the years and themes chosen, the proportion of checks announced in relation to the totality of operations may vary significantly from year to year. The same is of course true of their results. The results published in the press relate to the increase in income for direct taxes as a result of the checks carried out in the framework of the proactively announced actions. Let me also point out that these announced controls also affect the compliance of taxpayers. In 2013, the results of these actions amounted to just over EUR 1 billion. Details per share are included in the 2013 Annual Report of the FPS Finances. In 2017, the checks carried out as part of the proactively announced actions resulted in revenue increases of EUR 120 million. As I have already mentioned, the control actions announced do not, of course, represent all the control actions carried out by AGFisc over the course of a year and therefore give only a partial overview of the results of these controls. In 2013, all the controls carried out by AGFisc resulted in revenue increases for direct taxes totalling €6.966 billion and the recovery of €1.192 billion in VAT. Details of these figures can be found in the 2013 FPS Finance Annual Report. In 2017, all the controls carried out by AGFisc resulted in revenue increases for direct taxes totalling €8.872 billion and the recovery of €921 million in VAT. As you can see, the comparison between 2013 and 2017, when looking at all the results and not just the partial figures taken from their context, shows a stability and even a progression of the results of the AGFisc controls, thus far from the apocalyptic situation mentioned in some press articles. I hope I have reassured you on this matter. Another point which also raises various questions and comments is that relating to the central selection of files, in particular and not exclusively by means of the datamining tools which are repeatedly opposed to the free choice of files by the controllers, in particular because of their knowledge of the field. I would remind you that the central selection of files provides taxpayers with an essential guarantee that cannot be guaranteed by local selection, namely that of being treated in an objective and equal manner. The same risk results in the same probability of control over the entire territory and the taxpayer has the assurance that his file has been checked objectively and not on the basis of a choice made by a controller to verify his file rather than that of another taxpayer on the basis of criteria the objectivity of which cannot most often be demonstrated. Currently, the goal of the AGFisc is to achieve a ratio of 80% of centrally selected folders and 20% of locally selected folders. There are no plans to reduce the ratio of locally selected files. The tax administration must adapt and adapt its processes, not only in the light of technological developments, but also and above all in the light of society's. Transparency with respect to the taxpayer and the objective justification for the reasons that led to the review of the taxpayer's file are legitimate expectations that the tax administration must meet. The central selection of files is one of the key elements of the response to these expectations. It is an integral part of the AGFisc strategy and will continue to represent the core of the service work plan. Of course, the knowledge of the field by the controllers remains an essential element, but this knowledge must, above all, be shared within the organisation in order to generalise it and improve the criteria that are used to centrally select the files. It is within this framework that AGFisc, for example, has established knowledge exchange networks. The last point that often gives rise to more or less informed comments is that of the evolution of FPS Finance staff, in general, and of the number of tax auditors, in particular. Over the past ten years, the FPS Finances has experienced extensive computerization of its work processes. More and more taxpayers introduce their tax returns via computer applications rather than on paper. Many material tasks of low added value have thus disappeared, while at the same time a large number of controls which were previously to be carried out by an agent are now automatically carried out by the computer system. It would therefore be a bit curious if advanced computerization could not have the effect of reducing the number of staff needed to carry out the same tasks as before. To a large extent, and as in all enterprises, the reduction of staff is an effect of computerisation. In order not to diminish the control capacity of the tax administration, I asked the government and obtained from it the 1/1 replacement of the control functions within the FPS Finance. With regard to the evolution of staff over the last three years, I would like to provide you with a detailed picture of all the figures for both control and management staff. It should be noted that the comparison between the figures for 2015 and previous years, on the one hand, and 2016 and later, on the other hand, is very difficult for at least three reasons. First, in 2016, the organization of AGFisc's services was radically changed from a tax-based organization to an organization based on target audiences and on the well-separate processes of management, control and expertise. This reorganization has resulted in a large number of staff transfers. Secondly, during this reorganization, a series of previously managed tasks were transferred to control. Third, for the determination of the figures from 2016, it was decided to take into account all the personnel dedicated to control, including the hierarchy of the first degree, and all their activities, and no longer to take into account only the hours dedicated to the control process in the strict sense, as before. For example, in determining the figures from 2016 onwards, account was also taken of management, quality control, training and litigation support tasks. Revenues from reporting controls are included in the total role income. The estimation of revenue from the roles takes place globally for the coming fiscal year via the disaggregated method. This method is based on the most recent data and relevant economic parameters found at the macro-economic level. In budgetary control, account shall always be taken of the development of actual revenue as achieved in the previous and current years. The budget estimates therefore take into account to a large extent the results of the tax controls, apart of course from the exceptional elements which are by nature unforeseeable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u4	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. It was necessary to clarify the figures that circulated in the press, which you did very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answer. The information published in Het Laatste Nieuws was indeed incomplete. That said, your answer is incomplete in one case and somewhat unsatisfactory in the other. Your answer to the central selections versus the local selections comes from the usual discourse: there is a guarantee of fair treatment, etc. But it remains the question of effectiveness. I would like you to confirm to me that, still today, local selections have a greater performance than centralized selections. How is this difference explained? This is an essential point. Indeed, controls must be effective. If 80% of the controls are less effective, this is a problem. Either local selections are fundamentally better or a problem arises in the way centralized selections are designed and, perhaps, in the feedback of services. As far as the number of controllers is concerned, you say that comparison with 2015 is not possible. I can't contradict you, especially since I don't have the numbers. This is because when I asked you a question in December 2015, you made a commitment not to touch the number of controllers and to proceed with the 1/1 replacement. But you said that we could not verify whether this was actually the case, except, perhaps, from 2016. However, since I do not have the figures, I cannot comment on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u6	Questions Nos 25506, 25508 and 25523 by Mrs Smaers will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u7	Mr Minister, Article 44 of the VAT Code provides for an exemption for services provided by self-employed groups for their members. This provision includes a number of conditions, including the requirements that the remuneration charged to members only represents the reimbursement of the expenditure incurred and that the exemption does not distort competition. This exemption applies, inter alia, to inter-communal or inter-municipal associations which provide certain support services at cost to the affiliated municipalities as independent groups. I have been asked to ask this question in committee because a number of answers are expected on the interpretation of the circular of 12 December 2016 in that regard. Although the compensation is determined as far as possible to represent only the cost, it is possible that, as a result of the services provided, the self-employed groups are in surplus at the end of the year, or even at a loss. The circular does not address the question of how to deal with losses. Hence the following two questions, Minister. Can you confirm that a discharge of losses in the circumstances outlined is not contrary to the circular's statement, in particular that this discharge does not take place in order to provide cheaper services? Can you clarify whether an independent group can use surpluses from the activity of supplies of goods for the provision of free services to its members or for the maintenance or improvement of the services provided to its members? This question is inspired by inter-communals and inter-municipal partnerships. They asked me for an interpretation of the circular in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u8	Mr President, I can answer your first question that the application of the exemption from services provided by self-employed groups of persons, or the so-called cost-sharing associations, is subject to the conditions. Moreover, the exemption should not give rise to any distortion of competition. One of the conditions of application, I refer to Article 44, paragraph 2a, paragraph 1, paragraph 3° of the VAT Code provides that the fee or fee charged to each member may only represent the reimbursement of its share of the joint expenses incurred by the group. Joint expenditure incurred by the grouping shall mean all expenditure incurred by the grouping which is necessary for the group to be able to provide exempt services to its members. If the "services" sector of an independent group is loss-making, this loss should be borne by members, except where any accumulated reserves from the "services" sector can be used. If a self-employed group of persons develops both a service sector and a supply sector, the principle is that any surpluses of the latter sector should not be used to provide the services more cheaply and thus to create competition with other service providers. The profits from the supply sector should therefore not, in principle, be used to discharge any losses from the other sector. However, if the independent group can demonstrate that it has determined the price for its services to members on the basis of realistic and objective criteria in such a way that it must allow it to cover the expenditure incurred in accordance with reasonable expectations, it can be assumed that the discharge of any losses does not result from a desire to provide cheaper services to members. Such losses are the result of a disappointing result, not of the desire to offer cheaper services. In those circumstances, it can therefore be accepted that the proposed method of financing the discharge of losses resulting from surpluses from the supply sector is in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 44, paragraph 2a, paragraph 1, 3° of the VAT Code and does not distort competition. This would lead to discrimination between self-employed groups, depending on whether or not members receive the surplus from supplies of goods. In the case of a benefit, members could finance the group, with contributions, grants, fees and the like, to cover losses. In the reverse case, surpluses should not be used solely for VAT purposes, which would also constitute an infringement of the principle of neutrality. However, the above assumes that the group will keep separate accounts for the various activities, so that any discharge can be carried out transparently. As far as the second question is concerned, here too, the problem arises that if a self-employed group of persons develops both a service sector and a supply sector, these sectors must remain completely separate. Consequently, profits from the supply sector should in principle not be used for the benefit of the services sector. However, in the case of the financing of free services, it should be noted that the provision of free services falls outside the scope of VAT in any case. The non-taxation of VAT in such cases is not the result of the exemption discussed here and cannot therefore be refused on the basis of the conditions of application of the exemption. Furthermore, the administration accepts that profits from the "services" sector are used for the development of new services. However, it should again be pointed out that there may be discrimination and/or infringement of the principle of neutrality if the surpluses in the supply sector should not be used for the same purposes. Otherwise, there is a risk of unequal treatment depending on whether or not the self-employed group can distribute its surpluses to its members. In the case of a benefit, members could use the profits without any objection as an allowance, capital or any other form of financial support for the maintenance or improvement of the services sector. In order to prevent abuse of this scheme, it is only to the extent that the profitable activity of the supply sector is one of the usual activities of the selfemployed group and thus does not primarily aim at achieving the objective described above, namely free provision of services and the maintenance or improvement of services. However, the foregoing should not prejudice the condition that the VAT exemption should not lead to distortion of competition. For a specific case, the administration can investigate this further and further in response to a complaint.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u9	Minister, I will give your detailed answer to the relevant intercommunal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u10	Mr President, Minister, for those citizens who cannot pay their taxes on time and on time, it seems that it is becoming increasingly difficult, if not completely impossible, to obtain a plan to spread this tax debt. This is in any case the observation made by organizations that help and take care of indebted citizens, deploring that the tax authorities refuse many tax-clearance plans, in order to send massive amounts of taxpayers in difficulty back to CPAS. It appears that the payment deadline has been tightened and that plans to spread a tax debt spread over more than 12 months are systematically rejected by the Finance FPS. The result is that the citizen in debt has no choice but to turn to a lawyer or, worse, to the CPAS of his municipality, with which he can, according to the tax authorities, organize a collective settlement of his debts, whereas a little flexibility could have solved the situation in a different way. Minister, how many tax spread plans have been rejected by the FPS Finance over the past three years? Do you confirm that this number is increasing? What is the average amount of these tax spread plans? Have the rules been changed? Do you confirm that payment spread plans over more than 12 months are now systematically rejected? What justifies this change in rules? Has this change in rules been assessed or will it be assessed, in particular with regard to the amounts of taxes actually recovered or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u11	Mr Gilkinet, I am not in a position to provide you with figures on this subject or to provide you with any conclusions as to their evolution, as these data are only available since the creation of the Infocenters, i.e. since September 2017. This jurisdiction in the past was a matter for the discretion of recipients, which is why these data were not centralized. The figures for 2017 will be mentioned in the forthcoming annual report. It is true that a new strategy for the allocation of clearance plans has been implemented. This strategy sets out the rules for short-term (four months after the maturity date) or medium-term (or twelve months) allocation from the onset of the debt. This strategy targets the vast majority of clearance plans (98%) granted by the administration. In situations where full payment of the debt cannot be met within 12 months, it is clear that payment difficulties are no longer temporary but structural. This makes it necessary to consider other measures in order to best support the widely indebted citizen. Apart from the specific procedures already laid down by the legislator, the administration implements the procedure for the administrative settlement of debts which comes out of the traditional procedure of the clearance plans, but which provides for the allocation of the extended payment period and is possibly accompanied by measures to help the citizen get out of his difficult financial situation. These include the exemption from interest on late payment and, if the legal conditions are met, the indefinite excess of recovery. The practice that the assessment of a claim for a payment plan fell within the discretion of a receiving accountant was not acceptable for some time. It gave rise to unequal treatment of citizens and had already been the subject of well-founded criticism by the Court of Auditors. A change in the accounting status allows the administration to impose general directives on payment plans as well. With regard to your last question, this strategy is effectively evaluated on an ongoing basis. It is the result of observations and analyses of the behaviour of the citizen with regard to the payment of tax debts. As a result, long-term deadlines are very low and the risk of non-recovery increases considerably in such cases. During these few months of experience, adjustments were made. The administration will shortly issue a circular which will take up the general aspects of this new strategy as well as the details of the administrative procedure for settling debts, which mainly targets the citizens described in the introductory part of this response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u12	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I hear there is a real strategy on this, and an ongoing evaluation. However, I believe that the system can be improved, both with a view to effectively recovering the debt and taking into account the particular situation of the taxpayers concerned. Sometimes little is needed to avoid a reversal in situations of even greater indebtedness and recourse to the CPAS, which again puts the burden on local authorities. I will continue to observe this phenomenon carefully, which has been described to me as worrying.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u13	Minister, I have already asked you several times about these famous Libyan funds frozen in Belgium on the basis of Council of the European Union Regulations 204/2011 and 44/2016. The aim was to prevent these funds or the interests they provide from coming back to unrecommended individuals. Some of these funds have been frozen with the authorization of Belgium, which I have been trying to understand for a few weeks. In 2011 Mr Reynders confirmed to the newspaper La Libre Belgique that these assets amounted to EUR 14 billion. He even pointed out that the bulk of these funds, EUR 12.8 billion, had been frozen at Euroclear, the Brussels-based international bond, stock and investment fund company. According to information gathered by Le Vif/L'Express from the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, "there are just under 5 billion euros left out of the four accounts opened by Euroclear Bank SA, of which the Libyan Investment Authority and its subsidiary Lafico are the economic beneficiaries". This information was partly confirmed in a press release from the same public prosecutor's office in Brussels on 8 March, the content of which is as follows: "The Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office can confirm that, in the course of its investigation, the investigating judge has ordered the seizure of a sum of approximately 5 billion, belonging to two Libyan companies, from Euroclear's accounts. In addition, legal proceedings were initiated by Euroclear to challenge the seizability of these accounts. The case is currently pending before the Indictments Chamber in Brussels. No further comments will be given." On the other hand, in a tweet of the same day, you reversed this fact: "14 billion Libyan funds have been frozen and are still frozen! I deeply regret the misinformation of some parliamentarians and journalists. FakeNews." I try to avoid fake news and ask parliamentary questions! In the same article, the prosecutor's spokesman stated that Euroclear had refused to pay these funds to the central organ's accounts for seizure and confiscation, as should have been the case, given the court's decision to seize these funds. Minister, what is the exact amount of frozen Libyan funds in Euroclear Belgium's accounts today? What was the amount at the time of the decision to freeze these funds? What amounts have been paid to stakeholders – thus frozen – from these accounts since the decision to freeze? If so, who took this responsibility? Is it the bank itself? Has Treasury been informed of its initiative? How did she react? Did Belgium inform the Commission of this payment in accordance with EU Regulation 44/2016? Do you confirm that Euroclear Belgium refused to pay into the accounts of the Central Office for Seizure and Confiscation (OCSC) the amounts which the court had decided to seize? What are the legal arguments put forward by Euroclear to refuse to cooperate with the justice system and to consider that the amounts hosted in its accounts were elusive? Do you guarantee such an attitude? Shouldn't Euroclear Belgium, like any other Belgian banking institution – and like every citizen – respect the law? If you consider Euroclear Belgium's attitude to be legal, is it not appropriate in this case to amend the law so that Euroclear is subject to the same rules as other banking institutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u14	Mr Gilkinet, the answers to your various parliamentary questions have already been given in writing and orally. Since no new elements have appeared in the meantime, I can only confirm my previous answers, to which I refer you. Moreover, with regard to your questions relating to the dispute, I would like to point out that a judicial procedure is under way. Moreover, the Belgian State is not a party to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u15	Minister, we're playing hide-and-seek. It is not because I have already asked you about it that I am not going to ask you specific questions. I invite you not to stop on their behalf. It's not because I asked you about Libyan funds one day and you didn't answer me anything that you have to tell me every time that you've already answered me – unless it's a state secret... In any case, you cannot tweet that certain press articles constitute fake news and refrain from communicating information that a parliamentarian is entitled to obtain, especially in view of the specific facts that I have just described again. I will read carefully our previous discussions and all the documentation available to me on the subject. Finally, the best way to dispel rumours and avoid misinterpretations is to give the information requested by a parliamentarian who plays his role of controlling the executive. You must know I'm tenacious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u16	Mr.President, Minister, I introduced this question on May 18, 2018. Colleague Deseyn had a somewhat similar question to which you answered on May 22, 2018. I therefore wonder why my question was not on the agenda of 22 May 2018. I think that if it has not been joined to that of Mr Deseyn, it is due to a holiday. Before I ask my question, Minister, I would like to go back to my question No 25574 because you only gave me the figures after my reply. With respect to the financial controllers, you say you got a job from the government for a departure. However, I note that, from 2016 to 2018, there are still 9% fewer controllers. I therefore wonder how your principle 1/1 is applied. I come back to the tax trap on pensions. Minister, I have asked you several times, since 2016, about the tax trap on pensions in a certain income group: an increase in the gross pension that turns into a decrease in the net pension, i.e. a marginal rate exceeding 100%. Since then, you have had an interim solution adopted to avoid the most obvious. You have ensured that the marginal rate does not exceed 100%. But you have not solved this problem in substance because this rate remains close to 100%, which means that in a certain income group, an increase in the gross pension is almost totally "threatened" by tax. Minister, what about the final solution you promised when you put forward the interim solution? According to your answer to Mr Deseyn, I have the impression that we have not made much progress. Moreover, civil servants, who now have to pay to value their years of study for their pension, as well as private workers who had already paid for this valuation, are in a very uncomfortable situation. In fact, if they invest today to value their years of study and no definitive solution comes into play, they may have spent that money for nothing. How do you respond to these workers who are wondering if they have to pay this money at the risk of not having a pension increase?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u17	Mr Van Hees, I would like to refer you to the answer given in the Committee on Finance and the Budget on Tuesday 22 May 2018 to Mr Deseyn's question about the structural solution for the additional tax reduction for pensions. A solution to this very complex problem is still being developed. My administration is currently analyzing several avenues of solution. It is very important to properly identify all aspects of the problem. The final solution that I will propose to the government will be comprehensive and will therefore take into account the issue of buying back years of study.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u18	Minister, I am trying to understand the last sentence of your answer. The law on the redemption of years of study has already passed. Civil servants already have to pay today to buy back their years of study, whereas before that it was free.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u19	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u20	You've been saying that for a long time. The problem for public service workers today is whether or not they are buying back their years of study. You say they can wait for the solution to come. In fact, we have the impression that every time the question is asked, you say that the problem is very complex. Are you thinking of a solution under this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u21	We'll try.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u22	You'll try. This means that you do not commit to a solution under this legislature. I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u23	Question No 25625 by Mr Flahaux is transformed into a written question and his question No 25633 is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u24	Mr President, Minister, Dexia SA sold its 58.9% stake in Dexia Israel Bank on 18 March for some €82 million. The existence of this branch was the subject of serious criticism, and rightly so: it financed activities in Israeli settlements in Palestine which are, of course, illegal under international law. In September 2011, the Bank of Jerusalem had shown an interest in the acquisition of 65.3 per cent of the shares for a total of 105 million euros, much more than the amount of the bank's recent sale. As you know, the Belgian State is the majority shareholder of Dexia SA, amounting to 52.78 %. Minister, can you tell me who bought the shares of Dexia SA (58.9%) in Dexia Israel Bank? Why did Dexia SA accept this offer now when it refused a higher offer in 2011? Was this sale motivated by political and image issues, which could be perfectly understood?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u25	Mr President, Mr Hellings, we do not know the buyers of the shares of Dexia Israel Bank sold by Dexia Crédit Local in March. This is the principle of such an operation carried out on the occasion of an off-exchange sale through a broker who contacted a series of institutional investors who distributed the shareholding. No contract of assignment was entered into directly with the purchasers. The sale made last March offered the best exit conditions for Dexia, taking into account all the elements, including the sale price, but also the end of the local legal proceedings that had affected Dexia and Dexia Israel for almost 16 years. The 2011 conditional offer had been made directly to Dexia Israel and its board of directors, which Dexia did not control, had considered at the time that the offer should be rejected, having regard to a range of elements that it is difficult to assess at the present time. This divestment was the last disinvestment to be carried out by Dexia as part of its resolution plan ordered by the European Commission. Although it is not significant, it helps reduce the size of Dexia's balance sheet and simplifies the group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answers. Beyond the good news for the bad bank Dexia to be less exposed and reduce the size of the group, there is also excellent news: a Belgian group no longer owns a bank that was involved in Israel's illegal occupation of Palestine.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Klaps has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u28	Mr Minister, I have put these questions to you as a result of the formation of government in Italy and the nervousness that prevailed in the financial markets. The situation has now calmed down, but it remains to be seen how the situation will evolve. That nervousness also raised all sorts of questions. The interest rate on Italian paper went up sharply. It was said that Italian expenditure would increase and thus the debt would increase. It would even have been asked not to pay back a number of bonds. This indirectly put additional pressure on other southern European countries such as Greece, Spain and Portugal. Those countries threatened to get into that negative flow for a while. Minister, how do you estimate the risks of this situation for the euro? Are there any Belgian banks or insurance companies that are more than on average exposed to Italy in particular and the southern European countries in general? Minister, how do you see the role of the European Central Bank in the whole story?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u29	Mr President, it is true that the situation in Italy has changed since my question was tabled, since at the time this country had no government and had the prospect of early elections. Today, Italy has one, but we can ask ourselves the question of the democratic nature of its programme and its soundness at the socio-economic level. This is a matter of concern for all the other European countries, but also in relation to the value of Italian debt and its ability to refinance at correct rates and the possible domino effect linked to more structural and burdensome difficulties for the Italian State. Many Belgian banking institutions (as well as Dexia SA, which cannot be described entirely as a banking institution) are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of Italian debt and the consequences could affect the stability of the banks concerned as well as the financial stability of our State itself, which guarantees a very large share of Dexia SA (over EUR 30 billion). Mr Minister, are the Italian political situation and its potential financial consequences subject to special monitoring by the Belgian authorities? Where appropriate, what body is responsible for this monitoring and what initiatives are being taken in this context? Do you have any information on the exposure of Belgian banks to Italian debt? How much does it amount to in total and per institution? Have special instructions been given to these banks in relation to these potentially problematic assets? What about the situation of Dexia SA in relation to the same Italian debt? How high is Dexia SA exposed to Italian paper? What is being implemented to limit the risks associated with these assets? In your opinion, what is the risk of activating Dexia SA's public guarantees? I guess you'll say he's a sucker. Nevertheless, I would like to hear from you on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u30	Mr President, I agree with the questions put by the previous speakers. My question dates back to 30 May, when there was serious unrest on the financial markets. A few days later, there came good news from Italy and the markets re-emerged. But there are structural problems. Given that the new majority may be called anti-European, the issue will reappear sooner or later. The Minister of Finance states that he wants to stay in the euro area. The spread with the interest rate of German government bonds is still two points and there is a risk of contamination. The European Central Bank intends to phase out its OMT rescue programme. The ECB also imposes conditions which the Italian Government is unlikely to wish to meet. Dexia would be exposed to 23 billion euros, KBC for 2.1 billion euros and Belfius for 5 to 6 billion euros. Many banks are therefore at risk of what is happening in Italy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have said that the Eurogroup will be meeting shortly on Greece. Is the issue of Italy also being discussed? You said the budget deficit would double. All possible doom scenarios were going around. The unrest is now a little stabilized. Does Italy also have an impact on the prospects for the reform of the euro area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u31	Mr President, first of all some information on the recent financial turmoil which has had its epicenter in Italy. The trend in the spread between the rates on the long-term sovereign bonds of the Italian and German States worsened during the month of May in line with the Italian political developments, with the spread reaching a high point on 29 May. In June, the spread seems to stabilize around 2 and 2.5. At the height of these turbulences, however, spreads with Germany remained far below the levels observed during the sovereign debt crisis in 2011 and 2012, more than 5% with even a peak of 7.5% on 9 November 2011 exactly. Since 2011-2012, the fundamentals of Italy are slowly and gradually improving. First of all, the unemployment rate has begun to fall at very high levels, especially for young people, driven by the recovery of activity and labour market reforms. Second, thanks to the fall in interest rates for almost two thirds, general government has been able to reduce its deficit. In addition, the Italian State was able to take advantage of this decline to increase the average maturity of its debt and thus to protect itself more against the risk of rising certain rates. Public finances with a debt ratio of more than 130 per cent were also supported by structural reforms which, among other things, increased the pension age. Finally, the situation in the Italian banking sector has improved notably through recapitalisations, reductions on the part of non-performance loans and by efforts on the profitability of the sector. Nevertheless, financial tensions could resume if doubts arose as to whether Italian economic policy was in line with the requirements of monetary union. Like any other Member State, Italy is bound by the provisions governing the functioning of the euro area, in particular the budgetary policy rules set out in the Stability and Growth Pact, which, given the high public debt, are particularly relevant for its sustainability. It is for the ECB to determine its policy in full independence within the framework of its mandate, with the primary objective of achieving medium-term inflation below but close to 2%. In support of its policy, the Eurosystem shall, inter alia, continue its procurement programme of government and corporate bonds, including, of course, Italian paper, until the end of September 2018 and possibly longer, should the achievement of the objective so require. That is what we discussed this morning. Currently, purchases under the Asset Purchase Programme amount to EUR 30 billion per year, of course for the euro area as a whole. The ECB's instruments can be extended. In the past, the ECB, at a time of very great tensions which have hindered the transmission of its policies in some countries, has created the possibility of dealing with such distortions in certain countries. These are so-called ordinary money transactions. You will all remember Mr Draghi's infamous statement in July 2012: "We will save the euro whatever it takes." The ECB then announced the OMT programmes in August 2012. They had a huge impact on the market. For the first time, the ECB was able to play its full role as a lender or last resort with that programme. After all, it was not limited in time or in amount. For all the previous proposed programmes there was a limit on either of these two elements or on both elements, so there was always a doubt on the markets as to whether the ECB could play its role as a lender or a last resort. That doubt was removed with that program. However, there was one important condition attached to the OMT programmes, which were never activated, because the announcement alone had sufficient impact on the market. That condition was that the ECB could not activate the OMT programmes until a recovery programme was drawn up with the country for which the ECB would intervene. This means, in concrete terms, that the ECB, if there is any commotion around Italy and the ECB feels obliged to intervene, can only intervene through the OMT programme, which in turn, as indicated earlier, can only be activated within the framework of a programme between Europe and the country in question. This means that such a programme should also be negotiated between Europe, the European Commission and the ESM, on the one hand, and Italy, on the other. The exposure to Italy to the banking sector of the eight euro area countries for which figures are available, of course excluding Italy itself, was around 425 billion euros by the end of 2017, compared to 725 billion euros ten years earlier. Something has changed in this area. What certainly plays a role is that the ECB has also purchased Italian paper to a significant extent in the context of the QE programme. As far as Belgium is concerned, the extent of exposure varies from institution to institution. Figures on individual institutions based on prudential reporting cannot be disclosed because of their confidentiality. However, the exposure is usually low in relation to the balance sheet total of the institutions concerned. For the banking sector as a whole, without Dexia, it amounted to EUR 17,7 billion or 1,8 % of the balance sheet total by the end of 2017. About half of it consisted of progress on the Italian authorities, including local authorities. For Dexia, total exposure was 23 billion or 12.7% of Dexia's balance sheet total. Ten years earlier, Italy's progress was more than twice as high and 42 billion respectively for the banking sector without Dexia and 67 billion for Dexia alone. For the insurance sector, the total exposure at the end of 2017 was EUR 10 billion, of which 7 billion were bonds issued by the Italian State. The exposure to Italy represented 3.1 % of the balance sheet total of the insurance sector. If we compare the figures available for 2007, i.e. 10 years ago, then we find that investment in Italian bonds was more than twice as high in that sector too. It goes without saying that we are following developments in Italy closely. The President was right to refer to a meeting of the Eurogroup next Thursday. As far as I have seen the programme so far, Italy is not on the agenda. That is not illogical either, because there is no formally detailed government programme available yet, which can be weighed against what is being asked by the European Commission in the context of the multiannual plans. It goes without saying, however, that at least informally Italy will not be able to speak up. Everyone is, of course, looking forward to the explanation that the new finance minister Tria will certainly give next Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for this very detailed answer. We must indeed keep a close eye on this situation. We all remember the Greek crisis. Well, Italy's economy is a multiple of the Greeks; if there were real problems there, it would be a much bigger problem for the euro area than the overall limited size of the Greek economy. This calls for close monitoring of the situation and for compliance with European agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u33	If I am not mistaken, the exposure of Belgian establishments amounts to EUR 50 billion, including banks, insurance companies and Dexia. It is not anomalous and deserves to be closely monitored. Beyond the democratic nature of the new Italian government, and the robustness of the programme that will be put in place, attention must be paid to avoid any problems. In the event of difficulties, good decisions will have to be taken with regard to the Italian people, as with other European countries, including Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your answer on the problems in Italy. Over the next few weeks and months, this will determine the future of the euro, as well as what measures should or should not be taken to resolve the heavy Italian tax burden.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u35	Mr President, this question concerns the future of European Economic and Monetary Union. On 7 December 2017, the Commission made a series of proposals on this subject. However, I read in the press that there is still a long way to go in order to move from the European Stability Mechanism to a European Monetary Fund. How's that going? The European Monetary Fund would provide a backstop to the Single Resolution Fund. We would also ensure that it no longer works on an intergovernmental basis and that it becomes an institution for which unanimity would no longer apply, unless it concerns fundamental issues. The European Stability Mechanism would have a greater role in the programmes of financial assistance to the Member States. This is also the subject of the whole debate. You have already partly replied to it about the Outright Monetary Transactions of OMTs, which have an important role to play in the support programmes. What's going on out there? You should not answer this in detail, but I heard from the press that the contrasts are widening rather, while a consensus should be developed for the deepening of economic and monetary union. It is a general question, which is somewhat in line with the questions about Italy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u36	Mr President, everyone agrees that a structural anchoring of monetary union presupposes a well-functioning banking union. This is not enough, but it is a necessary condition. In order to shape this banking union, we have created the Single Supervisory Mechanism and the Single Resolution Board. In my opinion, the SMP, which is part of the ECB, is working fairly well. The SRB must, of course, have funds at its disposal in order to be able to observe its resolution role. Today, the whole debate is about the choice between risk reduction, risk reduction or risk sharing, if we want to take these further steps. The Nordic countries, led by Germany, but with very sharp positions of the Netherlands and Finland, want a further reduction in risk. For example, at the level of the banks, it is about phasing out the non-performance loans. This is already happening, but according to these countries this is going too slowly. The southern countries are calling for a certain spread of risks if we are to achieve this risk reduction, if not, the system will be stalled, especially in those southern countries. This is a difficult discussion. At the Ecofin meeting at the end of May, an important package of measures was adopted to implement this risk reduction. The key question is whether this is sufficient for the Nordic countries to take further steps in the field of risk-sharing. At the moment, it is indeed doubtful what the reaction will be in Germany, the Netherlands and Finland. Our position has always been that both are necessary. The first is a reduction in risk and then a risk sharing. However, both have to follow each other shortly after each other. After all, we must not create too great a discrepancy. That is our position on the matter. I will not hide the fact that the new Dutch government, in particular, has gone very far in recent months and is beginning to make very extreme demands on, for example, the level to which non-performance loans should be reduced. I note, however, that the decision-making process can only benefit from the fact that France and Germany are getting closer together. That is clearly the case, but certainly not up to the level at which it can be said that there is a Franco-German consensus. However, if I compare today's situation with that of six months ago, then there is a clear rapprochement between Germany and France. It is, however, by definition unanimous decisions. The heightened attitude of a country like the Netherlands is very striking in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Rompuy's 25768 was postponed to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u38	Thank you, Mr President, and I will try to speak in telegram style. Minister, in view of the threat of terrorism, customs officials are regularly entrusted with surveillance patrols on public roads, at sea and at airports. However, they do not always have access to the General National Data Bank (ANG.) Customs carry out these patrols in support of police forces. It therefore seems logical to me that they have the same information. These are sworn officials who have to comply with deontological guidelines. They must now check vehicles without having access to any relevant information. This could be risky. Hence these very specific questions. Firstly, were you already aware of the customs authorities' request for access to the ANG? Secondly, do you think they should have access to this database? Why is that, or why not? Thirdly, what action should be taken to ensure access? Fourthly, and finally, what period do you expect this to work out? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u39	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, on the first question, was I aware of the request made by these services for access to the ANG, I can clearly answer in the affirmative. Your second question was whether I think they should have access to this database and why, or why not. Yes, I think they should have access to it. Access to this database for officials of the General Administration of Customs and Excise is important in the exercise of their statutory tasks. The Police Office Act was amended in this respect by Act of 18 March 2014, which introduced an article providing for a direct search of national data by certain customs services. As far as your third question is concerned, as regards actions taken, I can tell you that there has been a repair of the WPA, the police officer's law, with regard to the following two elements which hinder the exchange of information between police and customs. Firstly, the restriction of information exchange to certain services and departments of the General Administration of Customs and Excise. The current text introduces such a distinction between the powers of customs officers, depending on the department or department to which they belong, while the legislator has precisely refused to make such a distinction in the general law on customs and excise duties of 18 July 1977. Any future change to the administrative structures of the General Administration of Customs and Excise would also require an amendment to the endorsed article of the WPA, a law for which the Minister of Finance is obviously not the competent authority. Secondly, still in the context of your third question, there is the limitation of the exchange of information, not provided for in the law itself but quoted in the explanatory memorandum, so that the information received from the police or directly from the ANG, cannot be used by customs for valuation purposes. The initiative is for Justice and Home Affairs Ministers. Our administrations are connected and are currently working on a design. You also had a question about the expected deadline. The General Administration of Customs and Excise informs me that at present it does not have the information to give a definitive answer, i.e. to set a specific deadline. Here too, the right of initiative lies with the Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. There'll be a lot of work at Justice and Home Affairs. Of course, access should not be used for valuation purposes. That is not the question of the people on the ground either. It is more about being able to check that they can safely stop a vehicle and carry out checks at certain locations. I hope that everyone will think about this in order to find a concrete solution quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u41	I added the valuation because this is a general concern that always comes up quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u42	Minister, I have already had the opportunity to ask you about process 110, which is classified as top secret at the administrative level. It would appear that there is a follow-up instruction in this process, since a taxpayer who had filed a claim was specified from the outset by the designated training officer to advise that it would be rejected, to the extent that the taxpayer had an obligation to seek the opinion of the taxing officer and that the taxing officer had indicated that he was out of the question of reviewing his position, that is, the taxation that he had established and that was being challenged. He invokes an internal instruction, this famous process 110. This process, if it contains such an instruction, seems to me to constitute an illegal investigation in so far as it leads in this case to a flagrant violation of a fundamental democratic rule: the principle of impartiality. Minister, do you consider process 110 to be an illegal investigation, at least in part? May I insist that, on occasion, this document be communicated to our committee so that we can discuss its compliance with international rules on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u43	Member, pursuant to the 110 process, the investigation of a complaint shall be carried out by an officer of the expert team, who shall, provided that the complaint contains other grievances or arguments than those already raised in response to the notice of rectification or the notification of ex officio taxation, consult with the officer of the management and control team at the stage of establishing the contested assessment. In this case, process 110 does not in any way exempt the expert team officer from adopting a proposal or personal position on the elements of the challenge. On the contrary, the process provides that in the event of a difference of opinion between the taxing officer and the training officer, the latter must resort to arbitration by the director of the centre or his delegate. While the expert team officer shares the position already expressed by the management and control team officer, it is nevertheless his or her responsibility to justify his or her decision. In this respect, it may take over some or all of the reasons given at the taxation stage, but if it rejects the claim by motivating its decision by the sole consideration mentioned in this case, it does not comply with the requirements of the process 110. For the rest, I share the position expressed in the case-law cited, as well as the administration, since it states in No 375/3 of its commentary to the Income Tax Code that "the general principle of independence and impartiality" of judges has not been applied since the Director or the official delegated by him acted as administrative authority. However, the principle of impartiality continues to apply under the general principle of good administration. Accordingly, it is appropriate, as in the past, not to entrust an official with the investigation of a claim against taxation which he himself has helped to establish. On the other hand, the case law which prohibited the staff member who had proceeded with the investigation of the claim from deciding on his own behalf on the delegation of the Director is no longer justified. I confirm that the document is a strictly internal document.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic921x.u44	Minister, thank you for this confirmation. Your answer is reassuring. It turns out that, in a particular case, there was probably an awkwardness. I am reassured that the administration, even in its secret instructions, maintains the principle of impartiality.
