ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic911x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, since you are officially responsible for the North Sea, anything that happens in the deep sea, with which we must take care, will undoubtedly interest you and our government. Since 2013, Belgium has been sponsoring state for deep-sea mining through an operating contract that the Belgian company DEME-GSR obtained from ISA. It covers an area of 76 728 square kilometres in the eastern part of the Clarion-Clipperton zone in the Pacific Ocean. More and more marine biologists warn that deep sea mining will lead to significant and irreversible environmental damage to the deep sea. Among other biologists from IUCN, this was reported and researchers from Ghent University pointed out in the journal Nature how fragile the ecosystems are that live on and around the raw materials they want to extract. In accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, the deep sea is a common heritage of humanity and we must show the utmost caution. What is the Belgian position on deep-sea mining? Does the Belgian Government choose to tap into new raw material stocks and further depletion and disruption of soil or does it want to pursue a policy of investing in alternatives for the sustainable reuse of metals? Why does Belgium support deep-sea mining; I refer to the contract? How does Belgium accept its responsibility and what measures does our country take to apply the precautionary and prudent principle? How does our country's support for such deep-sea projects reconcile with the sustainable development goals to which Belgium has committed itself? Was an environmental impact report carried out? Will you share the EIA with Parliament? Finally, how do the FPS Economy and the FPS Environment work together on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic911x.u2	Belgium is a pioneer in all deep-sea mining. A lot of technology is being developed, several companies are in the process of doing so and we are following developments very closely. Belgium is not unneged in the development of deep-sea mining, but it needs to be clearly and strictly framed, and it complements a parallel circuit, such as the re-use and recycling of metals. This framework must be clear: strict environmental conditions must be respected and mining must have the minimal impact on the deep sea ecosystem. That is the message Belgium is trying to convey to other deep-sea mining actors worldwide. At international level, we are a pioneer, including in the legislative field, and we make it clear that a good and robust framework helps to improve transparency, while answering uncertainties and questions about deep-sea mining. That is why we have a lot of discussions and plans with biologists, geologists and other stakeholders, such as nature associations and NGOs. In fact, informal consultations are taking place at the very moment, looking at legal, economic and environmental aspects. One of the activities of DEME-GSR, the substructure that DEME uses to develop these activities, is the organisation of a workshop where all stakeholders sit around the table and where it is thought how a more transparent and clearer policy can be put in place, with respect for the principle of caution in order to properly assess the impact if one starts to do so. It has also been made clear in the planned tests and their cooperation that the joint programme initial healthy and productive oceans, the first test, should be followed and supported very strongly scientifically and should therefore not be limited to normal monitoring. In this respect, Belgium takes on its responsibilities and tries to clearly frame, consult and exchange information. As far as real support is concerned, you must ask the question at Flemish level, where Minister Muyters is responsible for it. We are again taking up our important role in the International Seabed Authority. That is where the negotiation process on regulation started. Clear rules will also be laid down there. I believe that this is a unique opportunity to record clearly and transparently what can and cannot be done and to ensure that sustainable development goals are incorporated into very clear commitments. We will ensure that this is taken into account and that it becomes clear what the counterintenses are. These general principles, together with the principle of caution and the polluter pays principle, are part of the strategy that we are putting forward. It is therefore also about imposing responsibility on those who develop the activities. The most important message is that we are not indifferent to the process. There is a great deal of Belgian innovation involved, but it needs to be clearly framed. As in the workshop with the various stakeholders that is taking place today, good debates and discussions need to take place so that the issues can be viewed from all sides. The FPS Economy and the FPS Environment will continue to follow them. The environmental impact report, to be prepared by DEME-GSR for the planned test in 2019, will be made public and supported by our different FPS. The comments made may be used to further refine the Belgian position at international level. The cooperation between the various FPS is very important. Since the beginning of this year, the FPS Environment has been participating in the board meeting of the International Seabed Authority in Kingston. The FPS Economy and the FPS Foreign Affairs are also present there. That cooperation is going very well at the moment. It is important that we continue to look at the problem in all its facets and that Belgium takes responsibility for it, because there is also a variety of technologies used in the field of innovation and activity, so that Belgium can contribute to the sustainability of deep-sea mining.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic911x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, I think it is very positive that the workshop is taking place today, because one of the concerns was that there was too little consultation with stakeholders and too little public participation. That has solved the problem. A workshop is of course not binding. So I understand that you are working on the recommendations that come out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-05-54-commissie-ic911x.u4	Thank you very much for your presence.
