ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u1	Madam Secretary of State, I am very pleased to see you again and to work with you on gender equality issues, men and women, etc. You recently announced your willingness to legislate in order to punish those who claim to cure homosexuals. I can only welcome this decision and congratulate you very warmly on this step. In addition, I asked the Ministers of Justice and Public Health a few months ago about this matter. As I said at the time, last March the European Parliament called on the Member States to ban these conversion therapies. The United Nations, for its part, had already condemned this practice on numerous occasions. At present, only Malta and the United Kingdom, as well as some Spanish regions, have legislated to prohibit this practice. France, for its part, is in the process of drafting a text on the subject. Madam Secretary of State, we have always been – and I am very proud of it – a pioneering country in the defence of LGBTQI+ people. One can, of course, think of the introduction of marriage for homosexuals in 2003 or, more recently, of the new law on transgender persons. So I am delighted to learn that you are now working on such a text. My question will be three times. Do we have an idea of the extent of this phenomenon in our country? In concrete terms, what will be the content of your text? What obstacles remain to be overcome in order to achieve a ban on such a practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u2	Mr Flahaux, thank you for your question. Your request for encrypted data is relevant. Unfortunately, we do not have it – for several reasons. Thus, no legislation prohibits conversion therapies. In addition, the police have no figures related to this issue. This does not mean, however, that the phenomenon does not exist. On the contrary, the European Parliament issued a recommendation last March to counter it. In our home, Unia filed a civil suit in the Layla Hachichi case. Last year, a journalist from the Belang van Limburg went under cover of a false identity to a fortune teller in Genk for a "homosexual healing therapy". That exists. This causes damage and is unacceptable. It was unacceptable for some minors to be forced to undergo therapy. Homosexuality and transgenerism are not diseases. It is those who believe they have to fight these identities through therapies that are ill. For the time being, I am looking at how best to include a prohibition on conversion therapies in the law. To do this, my administration is working with various field organizations to identify possible obstacles. Once this identification has been made, I will determine what concrete approach can be put in place without hindering the proper functioning of psychiatric accompaniment therapies for homosexuals, bisexuals and transsexuals, who are, for their part, fully relevant. In drafting the legislation, I have drawn inspiration from Maltese law and from practices that already exist in the United Kingdom. Maltese law has imposed heavier penalties if practices are carried out on fragile persons or by professionals. The United Kingdom has taken relevant steps to avoid the practice of conversion therapies. To this end, a memorandum has been drafted between psychiatrists and psychologists but, provisionally, no legal prohibition on conversion therapy has been adopted. I am still working on the bill and it will be ready for this legislature. As you know, we have risen from fourth to second in the rainbow index. Malta is right in front of us. Over the past year, I have approved the transgender law in Parliament together with you. I have worked with all colleagues and through 115 actions on the Homophobic and Transphobic Violence Action Plan. The third element I would like to do, to allow the LGBTI community to be itself, is to register a ban on conversion therapies in the law. After all, Malta, which is first and foremost, already has that, just like Switzerland. If Belgium has it, we can continue to play the role of the country in which the rainbow community can feel at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Your answer is exactly what I wanted. I am glad that your model, in this area in any case, is Maltese legislation. Fortunately, it is not Maltese legislation for abortion, it is something else! Malta is a model in the fight against homophobia and especially transgender issues. I will be following the project that you will come out with care and more than benevolence. We are in a particularly important time when we know that some statements made no later than a few days ago by the new Italian Family Minister about homosexuality raise questions. In this context, any progress will be welcome. You can already count on my agreement and that of my group, the MR Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u4	Mrs. Jiroflée is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u5	Madam Secretary of State, on May 11, you presented to the press a new Inter-federal Action Plan against Discrimination and Violence against LGBTQI People, which was submitted to the federated entities and is to replace the one adopted in 2013. Voices are raised in the associative and academic circles to denounce the draft nature of it and little anchored in the realities described many times by Belgian and foreign studies. According to them, in addition to having ultra-security accents, your new plan presents the Muslim population living in Belgium as homophobic in principle without any nuance. Madam Secretary of State, why did you not carry out an evaluation of the previous plan and a broad consultation of the academic and associative world before drafting this new action plan? Why did you choose to use the term LGBTI in your plan rather than the more inclusive concept of OSIG (sexual orientation and gender identity) which is now a consensus in the scientific community? Why does your draft plan not include a gender test when this work is systematically done for other federal and regional policies? Indeed, lesbian and bisexual women suffer even more from violence and specific discrimination than other populations covered by the plan? Why doesn't your plan integrate serophobia - the phobia of HIV-positive people? Finally, can you elaborate on the next steps to be taken, including in your consultations with the federated entities, since this is an inter-federal plan, before your plan is finally adopted? I understand he was.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u6	Madam Secretary of State, on 11 May, you presented to the press, as my colleague has just said, the Interfederal Action Plan against Discrimination and Violence against LGBTI People for the period 2018-2019. In your communication, you emphasize that justice and the police must better protect the people concerned. In a carte blanche, about 100 actors from the associative and academic world clearly express their concern about the content of the document presented. They describe the plan as "a caplet of rough and disparate measures which are not based on any budget and which are also based on an abusive reading of the figures and an extremely partial knowledge of the research carried out on LGBT+ issues, both in Belgium and abroad". These associations mainly denounce three points of the action plan: its security approach to LGBT+ issues, an underlying racist and homo-nationalist policy and the absence of a gender reading and the link with other types of discrimination. Here are my questions, Madam Secretary of State: 1. Have organizations active in the field of combating discrimination and violence against LGBT+ people been involved in the development of the plan? Which ones? What was their role? To what extent have you considered their views? 2. What budgetary means will be made available by the federal government to combat discrimination and violence against LGBTI people? Can you confirm that organisations active in the field of LGBT+ rights protection have seen their subsidies decline? 3. Underlying all the actions and measures listed in this plan, we can identify certain principles and ideas. The cross-cutting view on the issue of discrimination and violence against LGBTI people has nowhere been clarified. What are the main structural causes of such discrimination and violence? How should the action plan respond to this? 4. The action plan builds a monolithic image of the LGBT+ population. But the LGBT+ public contains all the diversity of society and discrimination can increase dramatically if the people concerned are, for example, women, precarious or unemployed workers, persons with disabilities, persons of colour or ethnic and religious minorities. Is it a deliberate choice not to integrate this diversity? Are you going to take steps in this direction? 5. In a similar way to the tests proposed to combat racism, how do you position yourself against the idea of introducing a "anti-discrimination" testing policy for LGBTI people, primarily in the labour and housing market?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u7	Mr. Hellings, Mr. Van Hees, here are a lot of questions. I'll take my time to answer it if it's right for you. Since my appointment as Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities, I have always said that the Action Plan to combat homophobia and transphobia is a priority. I kept my promise. How are we going to work? Prior to the holding of the intercabinets working group, a written consultation tour was organised with equal opportunities organisations and actors on the ground. I have incorporated as much as possible the feedback of these interlocutors into this plan. Some of the proposed actions could not be retained because they would require a further evaluation by the strategic cells concerned and would lead to further delays in the plan. On the other hand, my administration - the Equal Opportunities Unit - has retained this information and will take it into account when drafting future action plans. Thanks to the creation of the unit, this information will not be lost and continuity will be established in this political area. In mid-May, the entire action plan was completed and published on the website. With regard to the questions relating to the criticism of the French-speaking left movement, it seems strange to me that the author relies, in his introduction, on rumours from the media without having read the plan itself. It is regrettable that a 70-page action plan comprising 120 measures taken by six different governments is reduced to low-political play. I deeply deplore the main criticism by Francophones of the action plan. In my view, this criticism relates less to the content of the proposed measures than to the reference to any study which would show that there is a link between religion and homophobia and that this link is the strongest in the case of Islam. That's a problem. It is especially in French-speaking Belgium that this scientific observation is difficult to pass. Science is therefore denied, although it is unfortunately confirmed by the facts reported by the newspapers. I will continue to put this problem on the agenda because I will also soon meet with the new President of the Muslim Executive, who has shown great openness. He's made an opening. For me, it's the first time I've received that signal of openness from the Muslim executive. I will also use that gesture, despite the criticism from the French-speaking movements. I mean it well, because I want Holebi's to feel comfortable and not be blamed every day. Today I got an e-mail. If it suits you, I will read it in Dutch in the text. I often get emails. This one is from today. I quote: "Dear Secretary of State Demir, I apologize for bothering you again, but I was harassed today when I walked hand in hand with my friend near the Atomium. Two Muslim men in a car kept driving slow next to us, while they were breaking us up verbally for the dirt off the street. The passenger had a knife in his hand. I called the Brussels police to report this and I got the answer that we should not walk hand in hand and the conversation was over. In order to avoid further problems, we quickly entered the café/vangnet Atomium where there were many people at the time. I read that e-mail today. We receive quite a few e-mails about this. I do not accept that people say that there are no problems and that I am a homonationalist. I'm gonna start the conversation. I hope that I will find a discussion partner who will ensure that this openness is shared by all mosques. To say that there is a link between Islam and homophobia is worth making me accused of homosexualism. Actually, that doesn't matter to me! It's not about me. I find the attitude of these activists and scientists, mainly francophones, terrible to see for the victims of homophobic behaviour and for the young homosexuals and bisexuals who grow up in the Muslim community. They cannot penetrate into this environment themselves and these left-wing homo-activists do not recognize their difficulties, which is, for me, a huge problem. If I am a homonationalist, should I then accuse them of homonegationism? You are mistaken when you say that the diversity within the LGBTI group has not been taken into account. On page 6 of the Action Plan, you can read that particular attention will be paid to the specific needs of LGBTI subgroups, such as homosexuals or bisexuals with disabilities. My administration will also address these aspects and we will follow up on consultations between federal governments. The drafting of this new action plan is based on an evaluation of previous action plans as well as on the basic points formulated by equality bodies. Before the bilateral talks, I analyse the actions of previous action plans that have not been put in place and the priorities set out therein, including equality bodies and actors on the ground. All suggestions were submitted to the relevant firm. However, it is up to government members to decide whether or not to accept these suggestions. Everyone is, in fact, responsible for his own actions, set up with the resources at his disposal. As the text of the action plan explains, the actions of the various members of the government have been requested taking into account different variables, of which the budget is part. This plan is a collaboration between six different governments. I took the initiative and coordinated. I would also like to extend a big thank you to these six governments. The term "LGBTI" is used internationally and is widely known. The more inclusive term "SOGI" (Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity) to which the author refers was also used. The cover page also mentions its subtitle of the more comprehensive action plan ASSOFAR (?), Inter-federal action plan to prevent and combat discrimination and violence against persons on the basis of their sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or condition. But it is, of course, impossible to know without reading the action plan. The gender test is part of regulatory impact assessments (RIAs). It has its origin in the Gender mainstreaming law with this AIR, it is possible to assess in advance the impact that a bill will have in various themes, including that of its kind. For each legislative or regulatory project, the Act provides for the conduct of an impact assessment on the situation of women and men. However, the action plan is not a legislative or regulatory proposal. On the other hand, when the text refers to an action of a regulatory nature, this automatically implies a gender test. In this way, when new regulations are put in place, policymakers will have a clear idea of their impact on the situation of women and men. The action plan involves a strong investment and commitment by all participating governments. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow ministers once again. I count on them for the implementation of all the actions and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u8	Madam Secretary of State, excuse me for giving me the floor! With respect to my first question, I understood that the plan had been evaluated. It will be interesting to examine, when reading the plan, the measures you have taken, those that have not been implemented in the previous plan and how you intend to take them back. I hear your answer on the term OSIG, which seems much more inclusive. If it appears in the title, good! It would be appropriate for it to be included in the entire plan. I'll check it out. I'm going to the gender test. It's very important. I understand that it is only mandatory for legislation that introduces new rules. However, the plan is a long-term strategy which, as it must do, incorporates the fact that a lesbian is also a woman and that, unfortunately, women today, both in terms of pay and equality in general, are, more than men, discriminated against. If, in addition, these women are of different ethnic or religious origin, it is even worse. It would have been interesting for this dimension of gender to be included in the plan itself. You did not answer the question about serophobia. The subject was indeed present in the previous plan. Serophobia is the phobia of HIV-positive people. These people must be given special protection because they are doubly vulnerable. We will be paying attention to this point. Finally, I understand that the plan was consulted by the other six governments of the federated entities. This means, if I follow you, that the governments of the federated entities also take on this political plan, in all its dimensions. Maybe then it's not me or Mr. Van Hees you accuse of homo-negationism. I would like to remind you of the homophobic murders that have, unfortunately, taken place on national territory. We opened, just a few weeks ago, a fresco in tribute to Ihsane Jarfi, who was killed by whites. He was himself a practicing Muslim. Also, reducing the issue of homophobia to a religious problem, as you do, is putting the plow before the ox and is especially very stigmatizing. I repeat that Ihsane Jarfi was Muslim and that he was killed by a group of four people, three of whom were not Muslim.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u9	Madam Secretary of State, your answer is quite incredible. In the beginning, there is a question of discrimination, homophobia. Then you manage to multiply discrimination. Indeed, we are starting from discrimination to achieve three discriminations. First of all, you say that the main problem of homophobia is Muslims. And then you say that those who dare to challenge your thesis are negationists, namely the French-speaking left. You're a division specialist. We find the classic N-VA discourse of opposing people to each other. That's the old principle of "divide to better rule." Several studies, cited in the plan, show that homophobia is greater among men than among women. But it's not about that that you insist on. Since you're talking about the left, we show, for example, that people on the right are more homophobic than those on the left. But it is not on this point that you insist. No! You hit a battlehorse of the N-VA, which unfortunately tends to surf the racist feelings of the population. We know that your colleague, Mr. Franken, is a regular. You really sign up for this movement. In view of the above, I quote Rainbow House's statement following the Pride, the cupola of LGBT+ associations: "A whole section of the political class regularly opposes people stigmatized on the basis of gender, sexual orientation or gender identity, on the one hand, and people stigmatized on the basis of ethnic or national origin or religious belief, on the other hand. That's exactly what you're doing. Like my colleague Hellings, I want to talk about Ihsane Jarfi or, more specifically, his father's speech on the occasion of this homophobic murder that took place in 2012 in the Liège region. He said: "You cannot fight homophobia and, at the same time, be a racist or a sexist".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u10	Madam Secretary of State, the Flemish Elder Council filed a complaint against supermarket chain Lidl at the beginning of this month. The supermarket chain launched an ad for avocados that refers to ninety-plussers as "fossils with scrambled eyelids." In a reaction, the Elder Council states that it is a clear form of âgism: stereotyping, discrimination or social write-off of people solely on the basis of their age. The Flemish Elder Council therefore lodges a complaint with the Jury for Ethische Praktijken concerning advertising. The negative perception of older people based on stereotypes or âgism causes many forms of discrimination against older people. The figures for reports on age discrimination are increasing. 144 age discrimination files were opened at Unia in 2016. This is an increase of 78% compared to 2015, when 45 files were opened. Many studies, including the Chung report, show that a significant and growing part of society worldwide is systematically deterred from their basic rights. You have already launched a campaign in the past to address stereotypes about older workers. It is good that you want to tackle this problem, but the problem is wider than just discrimination in the labour market. How do you respond to the event and the increasing number of complaints about age discrimination? What policies do you take to combat age discrimination? How will you address the rusted stereotypes about older people in different contexts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u11	No form of age discrimination is allowed, either on the workplace or outside. While age discrimination in the labour market is most frequently highlighted, the anti-discrimination law also criminalises other forms of age discrimination, including access to goods and services, social security and health care. Any person who is discriminated against for reasons of his or her age may therefore lodge a complaint with the competent authorities. In the specific case of Lidl's advertising, a complaint was also lodged with Unia. Furthermore, I can tell you that on 23 May the Jury for Ethics in the field of advertising made a decision. The jury considered that this advertising was not discriminatory in nature. Older people, of course, still have a lot of potential and it is terrible that this is not being fully exploited. We must therefore, above all, look at the causes of this discrimination and where the stereotypes come from. On this basis, appropriate policies should be taken to address the underlying causes. I am thinking here of two issues which are also mentioned in the coalition agreement. Firstly, the problem of seniority. Unfortunately, older people are often discriminated against in the labour market because of these pay scales. Secondly, the problem of the bridge pensioners. Because people retire early, the unjustified stereotyping of older workers is created. As you know, Mr Peeters is working on these issues, in implementation of the coalition agreement. The debate on society must continue in order to determine where these stereotypes come from.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u12	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I am surprised that Lidl's advertising was of a non-discriminatory nature. When one reads the wording, I understand that the Elders' Council has reacted firmly to this as a dome. Somehow this is felt to be discriminatory. Well, at least I don't get it. One of course has something to do with the other. If this is acceptable, the stereotyping of the labour market will of course also continue. Can age be accepted as a discriminatory factor in the labour market? Can we just say that older people are not flexible and may not want to work enough? Internationally, it is just accepted that older people bring in a lot of experience and can respond much more quickly to certain problems. I therefore believe that a campaign is needed to highlight the positive aspects of older people in the labour market. Without such a campaign, this stereotyping will never change. That's my feeling. We all have to work longer. Older people are willing to do that too, but sometimes they don't get opportunities. I know a lot of labor coaches dealing with people who are highly qualified. I'm probably going to be in the category of over 50s soon. This category is subject to discrimination. After a long journey, one is told that one is very good, but that there are questions about the length of time one wants to work. I believe that this is a major problem that we, as a government, must have the courage to tackle.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u13	Mr. De Vriendt and Mr Hedebouw are not present, so you have the floor, Mr Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u14	Thank you Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, as we approach the communal elections, my party, the PTB-PVDA, has conducted a large national investigation for several months. Several of our fellow citizens were questioned about what they felt should be improved in their communes or cities. It emerged that their main concern was the issue of poverty. Looking at Statbel's latest poverty figures in 2017, published last month and collected through the EU-SILC annual survey, 15.9% of our citizens were considered at risk of income poverty. In other words, one in six Belgians lives below the poverty risk line. These are isolates with an income of less than €1,139 per month. In addition to these monetary aspects, there are other dimensions of poverty - low labour intensity, severe material deprivation, etc. - 20.3 % of them are considered to be at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Finally, if we look at the distribution of this risk among the population, the finding is even more frightening. Indeed, unemployed workers are much more exposed to income poverty - 49.1% - than employed workers - 5%. So we are talking about half of the unemployed workers who, each month, have to make ends meet with income below the poverty line. Similarly, single-parent families – 37.7% – and tenants – 36.6% – are more likely to face this risk. In addition, the figures show that inequalities are growing more and more depending on the degree. For example, more than a quarter of those with lower secondary education are at risk of poverty, while the rate is 6.4 per cent for those with higher education. As part of the Europe 2020 strategy, Belgium had set itself the goal of reducing the population at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 380 000 people between 2008 and 2018 – this year... Within the framework of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, our country is committed to ensuring that, by 2030, the target group's share of the total population does not exceed 10.6 per cent. This represents a halving of the share measured in 2015 – 21.1%.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u15	In its evaluation of the Federal Plan to Combat Poverty, the Court of Auditors is very clear: "Belgium will not achieve the poverty reduction target set for it in the framework of the Europe 2020 strategy, unless it devotes more attention to it and significant resources". The latest statistics show that we are not really going in the right direction. Here are my questions, Madam Secretary of State: 1. How do you explain this structural existence of poverty in our society and even its increase for more than a decade? 2. Are the Belgian poverty reduction targets I have just mentioned still in practice? Is this still a priority for the Belgian government as a whole? What actions will you and your colleagues take during this Parliament to achieve these objectives? 3. At the end of last year, an interim report was submitted to the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Federal Plan to Combat Poverty 2016-2019. Less than half of the actions – 22 out of 61 – would have been fully implemented at that time. What actions are involved? What was the status of other actions in the plan? What initiatives will you undertake to implement, monitor and evaluate the plan as a whole?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u16	Mr Van Hees, I apologise but the cabinet did not translate the answer, because the question had been put in Dutch. The new poverty figures are indeed available. This is always an important moment to take the temperature of the socio-economic situation in Belgium. New figures also feed the social debate. If the figures are good, then that's good for the majority. If the numbers are bad, that's ammunition for the opposition. In any case, I will not be tempted to play a game of saying that the figures are good, because they are not. There's poverty. For some groups the indicators evolve slightly more positively, for others more negatively. Overall, there is stability. I don't need to sketch who's going to cherrypick. Anyway, that does not solve the problem. The government offers a long-term perspective. Work remains the main protection against poverty. The employment poverty rate in Belgium is among the lowest in Europe. It's been stable for years. This is confirmed by all independent scientific studies. Specifically in age-five, we note that the risk of poverty increases from 15.4 % for income from 2015 to 16% for income from 2016. This is therefore an increase of 0.6%. I do not want to cancel that increase, but the 0.6% is within the statistical margin. There is nothing else we can say with certainty, as it could be purely statistical coincidence. In addition, the figures for the 2015 income year are compared with those for the 2016 income year and the various recent increases in pensions have not yet been taken into account. I'd like to sum up the measures. The income guarantee for older people was increased by 30 euros per month for single people in 2017. In 2018 the implementation of the Summer Agreement will add a further 13.2 euros per month. The minimum pension for a full career has also increased since 2016 by 52.1 euros per month for single people. The first analyses based on the new EU-SILC 2017 indicate that around 10% of those over 65 have an equivalent disposable income of less than EUR 1 053 per month. Of those persons, 35 % explains having problems or major problems getting by with the available income. The most recent poverty figures strengthen the government's long-term work in the fight against poverty. The risk of poverty for the low skilled is four times higher than for the highly skilled. In other European countries, this gap is smaller. In the Netherlands, for example, the risk of poverty for low-skilled people is just under twice as high. One of the main causes is the employment rate of low-skilled workers. We can only conclude that in Belgium the labour market is no longer adapted. That is also what the three labour market experts Stijn Baert, Yves Marx and Marc De Vos reported. That is why the government is developing concrete solutions. Some examples include increases in the lowest net wages, labour cost moderation and tax measures to support single parents. The government is also gradually increasing benefits, but without creating new unemployment traps. When more people are at work, there is also more budgetary space to further increase social benefits in a sustainable, responsible way. That is why the government has increased the benefits several times. Recently, this happened with the Summer Accord. In addition to focusing on employment and the systematic increase in benefits as a basic element in the fight against monetary poverty, the government is also committed to combating non-monetary poverty and social exclusion. In the third federal plan on poverty reduction, for example, the various trade ministers have included a number of commitments to make progress in this area as well. I will therefore remind my fellow ministers once again when they draw up their policy paper. The systematic follow-up of the plan takes place through the network of federal poverty officials and the PPS Social Integration. In the latest analysis, 29 actions were effectively completed and by definition several run until the end of the legislature. At the end of the legislative term there will also be a final report, which could form the basis for drawing lessons for the preparation and follow-up of a possible fourth federal plan to combat poverty during the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u17	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to respond to your comments. You're telling us that the government has increased social benefits, but not too much, otherwise we're going to create a job trap. Yet there is a very simple way to avoid this, it is to increase wages. However, the government is doing the opposite, for example through an index jump. The problem is that social benefits remain well below the poverty line. This government is far from having solved it. For an isolated person, no increase is expected. The amount remains EUR 892 per month, with a risk-of-poverty threshold of EUR 1 115, representing a difference of EUR 223. For a family with two children, social integration income will rise to 1 230 euros per month, but with a risk-of-poverty threshold of 2 341 euros, i.e. 1 111 euros. My party believes that all replacement incomes should be raised at least at the level of the poverty risk line. If we really want to fight poverty, that is the only way. A second aspect did not appear in your answer here, but you said it elsewhere. In connection with the previous question, your party is a specialist in the divisions between the good and the bad poor. You said that increasing all income replacement allowances to the poverty line is difficult, but you want to give priority to allowances for people with disabilities. Indeed, people with disabilities have serious income problems. But I find it intolerable to oppose some poor people against others. Unfortunately, it is a practice of division known to you and other members of your party.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u18	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, in January 2018, you announced that you would come forward with an inter-federal action plan against racism and discrimination. The reason for this was, among other things, the racist statements and reactions following the election of Miss Belgium Angeline. Belgium does not yet have an inter-federal plan for the fight against racism. A few weeks ago, a coalition of about 30 civil society organisations reminded us of this promise during a colloquium here in the Chamber. They delivered 11 proposals for action to all Members of Parliament and all parties. Madam Secretary of State, when can you present the inter-federal plan against racism? Have you discussed this with civil society organisations and anti-racist organisations? If so, when? What's the result of it? Have you taken note of the 11 proposals submitted by civil society organisations? Do you intend to include it in your action plan? Have you consulted your colleague in the Flemish Parliament, Minister Homans? If so, what are the results of this? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u19	Madam Secretary of State, I begin with a quote: "We firmly believe that the obstacles to the elimination of racial discrimination and the achievement of racial equality are essentially due to insufficient political will, lax legislation, a lack of strategy for implementing and concrete action by States, as well as the prevalence of racist attitudes and negative stereotypes". This is not a quote from the PTB or from field associations. I quote the statement of the World Conference against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Intolerance, organized by the United Nations in 2001. At the time, our country had conducted negotiations on this declaration on behalf of the Member States of the European Union. Belgium had endorsed the declaration and had undertaken to draw up an inter-federal action plan against racism. It must be noted that 17 years and 7 governments later Belgium still does not have such an action plan. Belgium has also been questioned on several occasions by various international bodies on this subject. Yet the issues of racism and discrimination are structural problems in our society. We can observe how, as a result of the economic crisis, these phenomena have moved to a higher speed. In his 2016 Annual Report on Discrimination, Unia points out that he has never dealt with as many cases as in 2016 and is particularly alarmed by the seriousness of the facts reported. In 2016, Unia received 1,647 reports of discrimination on the basis of nationality, skin colour, ancestry and national or ethnic origin. These reports are, of course, only the tip of the iceberg. Structural racism and discrimination are deeply rooted in our society, including in the housing and labour markets, as in other areas of life. Social injustice affects many people, but it is also highly coloured. Madam Secretary of State, is the fight against racism and discrimination a priority for the government? How do you explain the absence of an action plan for 17 years? Are you going to draft one under this legislature? Will you involve actors on the ground in the preparation, implementation and evaluation of the action plan? You would benefit from the experience and expertise of anti-racist civil society organisations. Will you take into account the proposals put forward by the actors on the ground and who have achieved a real consensus? In May 2017, an expert commission presented its evaluation of the 2007 anti-discrimination laws. What initiatives have been taken since then to respond to the criticisms raised in the evaluation report? Tests as well as the method of mystery shopping are reactive in nature. In other words, it can only be used following the filing of a complaint or a report to provide objective indication and evidence. Do you support the proposal to introduce others that are proactive and would be led by the Social Inspectorate, while at the same time being accompanied by a strengthening of the sanctions which, today, prove to be too little dissuasive and therefore insufficient? Finally, the Anti-Discrimination Act 2007 provides for the possibility of positive recruitment actions. These are temporary initiatives aimed at correcting the imbalance found. In concrete terms, affirmative action means that if two job applicants have the required skills, the company will choose the one that is most fragile in the labour market or that is more faced with prejudice. In that regard, a royal decree should further clarify the conditions under which such initiatives could be taken. What is the status of the drafting of the decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, I was waving to Mr. Van Hees to remind him of the time allowed for speakers to put their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u21	Madam President, 17 years ago Belgium committed itself to drawing up an action plan against racism. Until today, six federal governments later, that plan isn't there yet. I regret that, too. Mrs Kitir, I have indeed announced in my policy paper that I will draw up a new inter-federal action plan against discrimination and violence. First of all, I have drawn up an action plan against discrimination and violence against LGBTI individuals. That is now ready and already published. The same note states that I will also work on the action plan on racism. I added in committee that I see this as a social plan, with attention being paid to all forms of racism and discrimination. So I see it much wider than the coalition's view against racism, which has produced eleven recommendations. I've already been able to go over these. My cabinet will hold consultations with the coalition against racism on 20 June. Then, of course, I will listen to their proposals and I will also explain my vision. There will therefore have to be some reciprocity. In the past, I have always said that racism is not relative, but absolutely unacceptable and punishable. It causes trauma to the victims and we must do something about it effectively with all of us. That is why we will work on a society plan, in which we will pay attention to all forms of discrimination and racism. After all, what Miss Belgium has been through, for example, cannot be accepted. In addition to the anti-discrimination legislation currently being updated, Mr Peeters is working on practical tests. It is also necessary to examine what we can include in such a society plan in the framework of the judicial investigation. It will, as has already been said, name all forms of racism. Eventually, the mentality will also have to change. Let me give you an example. Not long ago, we read in the press that a Tunisian father had beaten his daughter because she behaved in the West. This must also be discussed. This too will have to be included in the social plan because racism and discrimination exist in every culture and are of all times. However, this does not mean that we should not tackle the problem. We will have to do this with all the Communities, because only then will I believe that we can make a contribution to our society. The evaluation of the anti-discrimination laws, which should have been carried out in 2012 under anti-discrimination legislation, has continued. A final evaluation report will be ready in 2021. In the meantime, I am already analysing a first interim report, so that I can submit some draft legislation to the Council of Ministers before the summer. As far as the timing of the action plan against discrimination is concerned, I think I can make it very clear that I am still able to implement this legislative procedure. I have only been Secretary of State for a year and we have already spent some time in the action plan against homophobic violence. The action plan against discrimination will certainly come after we have heard all those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u22	Madam Secretary of State, I congratulate you on the action plan you have put in place for LGTBs. That's important. Both in the situation of LGTBs and in the situation of racism, I believe that we are going in the wrong direction. Any action plan to change people's mindset and to strive for a society in which one respects one another and everyone can be oneself is necessary. Thank you for taking the initiative for the action plan. You are still trying to get that through this legislature, but given the timing there is some doubt about that, and I can certainly understand that. However, you are known as someone who knows how to persevere. I therefore hope that we will be able to discuss the action plan during this legislative period. It is also positive that you will receive the action groups. The wider the support, the better. So I look forward to the outcome of the consultation and the action plan. You say you want to see things wider. Well, I share your view that any form of racism must be combated. Of course, everything has to be put in the right context. So I look forward to the action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-06-54-commissie-ic913x.u23	Madam Secretary of State, I see an important contrast in Belgium between, on the one hand, legislation which in itself is very advanced – the legal system including many criteria is ambitious – and, on the other hand, a practical situation on the ground, which is almost nowhere, where nothing has changed since we are still at the bottom of the pack at European level in the fight against discrimination, which seems to me to be a sign of a lack of political will. As soon as today, in the press, PTB's French-speaking spokesman, Germain Mugemango, of Rwandan origin, suffered a flood of insults for five minutes from a neighbour. Unfortunately, this is a daily and not an isolated case. It seems to me that a political will is required. In particular, with regard to discrimination in hiring, a paradigm shift would be welcome. We need binding declarations because those that are not, such as self-regulation of companies, do not have their effects. This is the failure of a soft anti-discrimination policy. The government has to change course.
