ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u1	Madam Minister, on the basis of the Royal Decree of 24 October 2013 amending Articles 14b, 14k, 15 and 21 § 3 of the Annex to the Royal Decree of 14 September 1984 establishing the nomenclature of health benefits in respect of compulsory health care and allowances, the act of "liberation of the carpal canal, whatever the technique" is no longer categorised "N 125" but "N 200". However, Article 15(2) of the Annex to the Royal Decree of 14 September 1984 establishing the nomenclature of health benefits in respect of compulsory insurance provides that "except in cases of force majeure, interventions of a value equal to or greater than K 120 or N 200 must be carried out in a hospital institution approved by the competent authority and comprising at least one service C or D. Previously, the carpal channel was operated in N 125 and could therefore be operated in an extra-hospital setting. Today, it has moved from N 125 to N 200. The other regulations therefore apply to the carpal channel as a N 200. This means that the intervention can no longer be carried out in an extrahospital setting. Far from me the idea that all carpal channels can be made in extrahospital because, especially for patients who are more at risk in terms of anesthesia – namely ASA 3 and 4, etc. – This is obviously not reasonable. On the other hand, for patients at low risk in terms of anesthesia and overall (ASA 1 and 2), and provided, of course, that the structures have the same obligations of quality and supervision, this seems to be a matter of common sense. Do you intend, therefore, to allow such extra-hospital interventions to be carried out, with conditions of quality and supervision, and only – I imagine – for patients at low risk? Which obviously seems quite logical to me. On the other hand, I asked you, because it is important in the analysis of this file – but do not hesitate to pass them on to me and not to read them here! – a series of data on the number of carpal canal surgeries performed in recent years, distinguishing between intra-hospital and extra-hospital procedures, where in any case the procedure was still categorised N 125, as well as the total budget, including the distinction of the budgets linked to the cost of the various hospital-surgery-anesthetic posts. In addition, I would obviously like to have the same number of surgeries since the operation was categorized as N 200 with the same ventilations. I am not asking, Madam President, that all these figures be given to me orally, but that they be transmitted to me. If the minister can address them to me, it would be really ideal to complete the other elements of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u2	Madam Secretary, before replying, can you indicate how long you can stay on the committee today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u3	Until 5:30. Mrs Fonck, I can give you a table showing the figures since 2012. However, it is impossible, for 2012 and 2013, to make a distinction in the locations of outpatient services in hospital and outpatient settings. As you know, the benefit relating to the release of the carpal canal, whatever the technique, as set out in section 14k of the benefit nomenclature, was revised by Royal Decree of 24 October 2013, which entered into force on 1 January 2014, before the beginning of this Parliament. As you indicate, the coefficient that expresses the relative value of each benefit has increased from N125 to N200. This was the result of a revision of the above-named article provided for in the medical-mutualist agreement 2009-2010, item 4 of which recommended an update of the nomenclature of orthopaedic surgery by specialists. The surgical procedure consisting of the release of the carpal canal has been upgraded at the request of, among other things, orthopedists and neurosurgeons, thus allowing for the certification of the operating aid. Article 16(5) of the nomenclature stipulates that "for surgical aid in the course of surgical services with a relative value greater than or equal to K120 or N200, the fees shall be fixed at 10% of the relative value of the service performed, irrespective of the qualification of the doctor assisting in the intervention". You can see in the tables that in 2014, amounts were provided for this operating aid in outpatient or hospital settings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u4	The consequence of this change is that this intervention can no longer be carried out in an extra-hospital environment, as specified in Article 15 §2 of the Nomenclature. There is no intention of planning these interventions in an extra-hospital setting in the near future. Since 2014, outpatient services have been provided in hospitals or one day clinic. The costs associated with the various hospital-anesthetic stations differ according to the procedure applied, i.e. ambulatory, one day clinic or actual admission, and according to the choice of room type if necessary. I'll give you the painting. The Medicomut Agreements do not foresee any changes in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u5	Madam Minister, the initial reason for this is to upgrade the operational aid. It's obviously positive and it needed to pass a N200. However, this has consequences that I do not know if they have been debated in Medicomut. The Medicomut decision concerns the operational aid component. But has everyone, at that time, taken into account the consequences of an inability to do so in an extra-hospital setting under marked conditions, i.e. for patients at low risk and only with supervision quality obligations. There are consequences at two levels. First of all, the overall costs of managing health care. But, thanks to the figures you have given me, I will try to explore a little more in this area. Second, there are consequences for the patient as there may be impacts on some aspects of insurance interventions. But I will come back to the matter and I will also ask your colleague, Mr Peeters, about it. I really wonder, minister, whether the patient and economic aspect of this issue should not be reconsidered and whether it should not be re-discussed in the Medicomut. Under certain conditions and for some patients, it is, in my view, really worth resting the question. I would also like to thank you for the figures provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u6	Madam President, Madam Minister, as you know, I have many dadas and this is one of them. For a long time I have been advocating for a preventive visual hang-up on the boxes of teratogenic medicines, not by asking for their removal outright, but by making a hang-up to remind women sometimes taking these medicines for a very long time that they must have the click, at the beginning of pregnancy, to talk about it with their doctor to see whether or not, the taking of these medicines must be continued or stopped; indeed, many women do not necessarily go to their doctor at the very beginning of pregnancy, or at least not immediately. You had always been opposed to my proposal. Then last November, you sent us back to Europe. And it is true that on February 9, 2018, the Committee for Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment (PRAC) issued its recommendations. Here is an excerpt: "The PRAC has also recommended that the outside packaging of all valproate medicines must include a visual warning about the risks in pregnancy. ln addition to boxed text, this may include a symbol/pictogram, with the details to be adapted at national level." At European level, therefore, everything is clear. Madam Minister, I hope that we will now be able to move forward slowly but surely. It must be recognized that some medicines containing valproate have been of initiative – as a result of all these debates, I imagine – with a visual hanging logo. At the same time, this is not the case for all. So when will we have a sensible approach to public health in this area, requiring that not only "some" but "all" packs of valproate containing medicinal products include this warning and pictogram? What about generics? Since the Belgian Association of Victims of Valproate Syndrome (ABVSV) has been extremely active on this issue and in relation to this topic, have you or the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products (AFMPS) had contact with the Association, who wanted to meet with the authorities? Finally, it seems to me important that we not only stop with sodium valproate, but that these provisions be extended to other teratogenic medicinal products. The challenge is really to give yourself additional chances of avoiding tragedies such as those that have occurred following the intake of sodium valproate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, for all valproate products, a notification was submitted to the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products by the companies to add the pictogram on the cartons. Six months after the approval of the notification, the packages of the batches released must include the pictogram. The last notification was approved at the end of September 2017. Therefore, since April 2018, the batches released from all the medicinal products concerned, including generics, bear the pictogram. A colourful and framed warning text was already applicable for all the medicinal products concerned, including generics. AFMPS has indeed been in contact with the Belgian Association of Victims of Valproate Syndrome on several occasions. The president of the Association was consulted in a working group on teratogenic medicines in the context of the bill (Doc. 54 1593) to place a visual warning on the packaging of medicinal products with teratogenic effects. According to information published on its website, on 26 September 2017, the ABVSV welcomed the addition of the pictogram on Depakine cartons, which is widespread in all medicines containing valproate. Retinoid-based medicinal products available in Belgium also contain a visual warning regarding risks during pregnancy, coloured and framed, without the pictogram. The generalisation of the pictogram regarding risks during pregnancy is currently not envisaged for the reasons already mentioned in the rejection by the House of Representatives, on 17 March 2017, of the bill to affix a visual warning on the packaging of medicinal products having a teratogenic effect. However, other initiatives have been taken. For example, an information campaign entitled "Take a medicine in case of desire for a child, pregnancy or breast-feeding" was launched in Belgium on 12 December 2017. This campaign is structured around posters that can be displayed in medical offices, brochures to be distributed to patients and a specific website www.medicamentsetgrossesse.be. This information campaign recalls that some medicines may be dangerous for the baby, during pregnancy or breast-feeding, and provides several cautionary advice such as, for example, the importance of planning pregnancies (if possible), discussing treatments with the doctor – I am thinking here of patients who are taking drugs chronically – and reading the package leaflets and packages of medicines, and not taking or stopping, if they are already in progress, medication without medical advice during pregnancy or breast-feeding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u8	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. We can see that we have advanced, after a situation of blocking with a nonabsolute. You say that today all generics are understood. I assume that your answer is valid regardless of the dosages, including for valproate from abroad. I guess that's the case. But I will ask pharmacist colleagues to check. You specify that this is done for retinoids by adding that you do not want to generalize the measure to all medicines with known teratogenic effects. In my opinion, this is a mistake, Madam Minister. I will never redirect it enough, not because it is an absolute weapon, but it is an additional weapon that allows above all to have a hook, from the very beginning of pregnancy, and to induce a reflex in the patients concerned. Moreover, now that this has been done for two medicines, it is all the more important to foresee it for all medicines that have known teratogenic effects. If this is not the case, the public authorities will be responsible for not having done so and therefore not having provided direct information to the patients. Nothing better than packaging than the package leaflet to ensure visibility, accessibility and information efficiency. I will therefore continue to plead in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u9	Madam Minister, when visiting the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities on 6 March 2018, we learned, among other things, that the eHealth system is still a problem for many general practitioners. They're not using the system correctly. In the case of a grant application, medical data is often requested from the general practitioner. It is often found that, months after starting the file, the medical data is still missing because the general practitioners do not yet use the eHealth system or use it wrongly. Madam Secretary, do you have any idea how many general practitioners do not yet use the system and how many general practitioners use it badly? Is that alarming? Should additional measures be taken? What's the status?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u10	At present, almost all active general practitioners use a general practitioner's practice system where a quasi-automatic function is available to share certain medical data of their patient through the so-called SUMEHR with other healthcare providers with whom the patient has a therapeutic relationship. The patient can view these data in principle. Electronic prescription of medication has also been incorporated into these systems. The use of the electronic prescription will be mandatory on 1 June 2018, except for general practitioners aged 62 or over at that time. It is not possible to verify exactly whether each doctor actually shares the recorded medical data via the eHealth platform. In any case, the telematics premium encourages healthcare providers to invest in ICT tools, both hardware and software. We stick to the plan to allow all general practitioners to use all electronic functions by 2021. An important factor is, of course, the quality of registration. A first step to monitor this is the immediate possibility for the patient to gain insight into his or her medical data through the Personal Health Viewer, which was presented to the general public today. At the moment, it is still the case that the general practitioner can determine whether or not that data is shared. Finally, I have made an important budget available to training organisations so that caregivers can receive free short-term training on the architecture and use of eHealth. This training is widely used. Since 2013 4 350 general practitioners have been trained in Flanders. Since 2016 in Brussels, 695 general practitioners have done so through the LOKs and 670 general practitioners through the eHealth academy. Since 2014, 2 145 doctors have been trained in Wallonia. According to the Medicomut figures for 2016 there are 10 797 general practitioners active in our country. If we add up everything, there is a nice number of general practitioners who can handle this well. Unfortunately, this is not yet the case for everyone, but in the disabled sector there are other problems with their own systems. After all, it could be the one who steers it, but also the one who has to put it in the system. When I hear it like that, this doesn't really work out. I know Mrs Demir is working hard on that, but it is a really big problem. Is it the sender or the receiver? In any case, we learn from the figures that the use here is very good. We have also made a catch-up effort and continue to offer these training courses. I would ask this specifically for the People with Disabilities DG through Mrs Demir.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for the figures. I'm just trying to get a look at this. You also say that it can be on one side and on the other. I'm trying to get a look at the problem. We were really impressed by the fact that this was one of the problems. The Members who were present will certainly be able to confirm that. Anyway, when I look at the figures, we certainly go in the right direction in terms of training. I will look into this a little further and also ask Mrs Demir a few questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u12	Question No 24222 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u13	Minister, this is not the first time that different – and sometimes conflicting – positions and modes of intervention have emerged between the (hyper) medical approach and the overall approach to accompaniment of pregnancy and childbirth. At the end of January, Le Monde published the results of a wide-ranging survey in France on the more or less medicalized way in which childbirth is dealt with and on the profiles of hospital establishments on the subject, and proposed a description of the practices in the different maternity wards of France in order to allow women to have the criteria to be able to make choices. It appears that in our case, the rates of the main interventions during childbirth are known to INAMI and Cepip and SPE, but they are not made public. However, most women who arrive at motherhood are subject to a protocol with the possibility of informed choices and consents to be given on different almost nullified practices. In fact, automatically and "for their own good", we practice episiotomy, constant monitoring or various injections. Minister, my questions relate to the idea of making these practices public, which are in databases, so as to better identify them and enable women to know who practices what and where to facilitate their choice. In short, it is a question of facilitating the informed consent of the woman who wishes to give birth.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u14	Mrs Gerkens, as you know, I also attach great importance to making hospital registration data available to the public, including for research institutions, universities, health observatories and international bodies, in compliance with privacy legislation, especially since they are personal health data. However, the current legislation relates to the protection of the privacy of individuals and not legal persons. While until recently health data were not distributed per hospital, the possibility has been considered in recent years. I should like to point out that certain data, such as the rate of Caesarean section, must be interpreted correctly. Thus, the Robson indicator is actually more appropriate to interpret this percentage. Robson is a system that categorizes women into ten groups based on their obstetric characteristics such as parity, a previous Caesarean section, length of pregnancy, etc. However, the calculation of this indicator requires data that are collected by the Centre for Perinatal Epidemiology in French-speaking Belgium and by the Studiecentrum voor perinatale epidemiology on the Dutch-speaking side. These data are available to the Communities. It will be difficult to interpret the only raw figures, as they can integrate women who have had great difficulties before. An interpretation therefore seems to me to be legitimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u15	Thank you for your answers. It is complicated; it is necessary to respect privacy, and not to give elements that would break the respect due to different people. But we are faced with practices that are all trying to find justification. There are positive practices, including in non-medicalization, but the possibility of informed choices for women does not always exist, especially for those who want to choose the most suitable place to give birth. It is true that there is a mix of community and federal competencies, but I think there is a real interest in thinking about how different practices can be approached so that they can move towards greater choice. My question was also about this choice, about the right of the woman who is about to give birth to have the opportunity to give her consent or not. That's not always the case, far from it. I have asked you more specific questions in writing and will continue to investigate the various levels of power, including the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u16	Madam President, Minister, this is not the first time that I have asked you about this because we regularly address it in committee. In March 2018, you told me that the activity data of the pilot projects, collected from a self-assessment by the project coordinators, were analysed by the Public Health FPS and that most participants - patients and care teams - were satisfied with this new management modality. In view of the elements that I have been able to get to know on the ground, I would like to elaborate on the subject through the following questions: - What is the rate of re-hospitalisation of young mothers after their return home, before the implementation of the shorter duration of hospitalisation in maternity? - What is the rate of re-hospitalisation of young mothers after their return home since the implementation of the shorter duration of hospitalisation in maternity but who do not participate in the pilot projects? - What is the rate of re-hospitalization of young mothers who return early and participate in a pilot project to reduce the length of stay in maternity care? It seems to me important to look at these rates of re-hospitalisation which may vary depending on the home support provided by midwives, a solution which I had strongly advocated at the time the famous pilot projects were launched, since it had not been put in place. In a second stage, fortunately, it was considered the importance, when returning home after a eutoic birth, of having recourse to support by midwives, which has its interest for mothers as well as for young babies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u17	Mrs Fonck, before dealing with the requested elements, namely the number of re-hospitalisations after delivery, I would like to point out that no general regulations are currently in place to impose on hospitals the shortening of hospital stays after delivery. On the other hand, there have been six pilot projects in progress since 1 July 2016. The experiences of all the actors involved will help us draw up a perinatal policy for the future. I would also like to point out that many maternity hospitals throughout Belgium, and therefore also those outside the pilot projects, are taking initiatives not to hospitalize mothers and children for longer than necessary from a medical point of view. It is always the doctor who is in charge of the decision. Therefore, for a number of reasons, the interpretation of these minimum hospital summary (MHR) data should be somewhat nuanced. First of all, these figures allow only to follow a patient within the same hospital. In other words, his stay in another institution will not be taken into account. It should also be noted that each maternity participant in one of the pilot projects has determined its own criteria for inclusion and exclusion. In the end, therefore, it is only the young mothers whose delivery took place without complication and who are well surrounded at home who quickly leave the hospital. In other words, each pilot project has already selected future mothers. A comparison of re-hospitalisation rates therefore leads to erroneous conclusions. For example, the evaluation reports of the pilot projects show that 0.66% of the mothers participating in the pilot projects require re-hospitalization within 30 days of delivery. It is not entirely correct to compare this rate with national and minimum hospital summary data. For the latter, the approach differs. It shows a re-hospitalisation rate of 0.96% for the first half of 2017 in hospitals participating in the pilot projects, in which the registration of the HRM refers to childbirth. We assume that this low rate is due to the fact that only problem-free mothers, with a low risk of re-hospitalization, are included. In non-pilot hospitals, the re-hospitalization rate is 1.04 per cent or even higher. As a result, there is almost no difference between the hospitals contributing to the pilot projects and the others. This is positive, as it indicates that the quality of care is the same. Of course, we continue to follow this issue closely. Finally, I can inform you that these same rates of re-hospitalization are relatively stable over time. At the national level, there is a minimum rate of increase of 0.95% in re-hospitalisation as of 1 September 2014, compared to 1.03 % in the first half of 2017. It can therefore be seen that the rate of readmission of mothers remains relatively stable over time and varies very little between the mothers taken over by the pilot projects and those taken care of in the other hospitals. However, I would like to reiterate that these figures should be interpreted with caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u18	Madam Minister, I thank you for these figures, although we agree that they must always be interpreted with caution. You're saying there's been no regulation. It seems to me that if: beyond the existence of the pilot projects, a number of hospital days were determined - the famous 3.5 and then the 3 days - above which there would be a negative financial impact for the hospitals concerned. I was talking to you about two aspects: the pilot projects and the impact on the BMF. The development of these figures will be examined and I believe that this is an important element that needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u19	Madam President, I tabled this question a lot of time ago. I will summarize it and avoid presenting the famous emergency plans again. For the past four years, we had advocated, like the Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care (KCE), for the establishment of a nationwide availability. Madam Minister, long before the decisions were made, I had asked you about how this project was going to be implemented and the exact manner in which it was going to be distributed, about intricating those who would be involved, if the distribution were to be speeded up beyond the current lay-off. I have been contacted by practitioners in the field, pharmacists or communities, who deplore the very weak or total lack of consultation with them on this issue. Some people have seen the caisses with iodine in their homes without any explanation. We observed a gap between the distribution of the tablets and that of the famous folders, not yet present, when the tablets were to be distributed. Could you clarify how the iodine tablets are to be distributed under the new nuclear and radiological emergency plan for Belgian territory? It appears that there is no expiry date on the cartons stored in pharmacies. I would like some additional information on these aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u20	Mrs Fonck, the nuclear emergency plan drawn up and updated under the direction of my colleague the Minister of the Interior, Jan Jambon, defines the following arrangements for the distribution of iodine tablets: "All over the country, sensitive groups will be advised to obtain iodine tablets, i.e. families with children up to 18 years of age, pregnant women and those who are breast-feeding. It is also recommended that communities where children are staying - crèches, schools, institutions for adolescents - obtain iodine tablets, as young people are at greater risk of thyroid cancer due to radioactive iodine. Since the potential exposure to radioactive iodine in the event of a nuclear accident is greater when near a nuclear site, it is recommended that in the 20 km area around nuclear sites, in addition to sensitive groups, all other residents obtain iodine tablets. Ideally, each family and community in this area should have a stock of iodine tablets. We communicated to that effect on the day we launched this project. Iodine tablets are made available free of charge through pharmacists who can also provide their clients with necessary information. The associations of the care providers concerned, i.e. doctors, pharmacists and midwives, were contacted by my services well before the start of the campaign. It was important, because of their role and functions, to reach the target groups as much as possible and to ensure optimal distribution. For children's communities, the modalities were discussed with the federated entities. Among other things, the following complementary initiatives have been set up: the development of an e-learning module containing the necessary information for the healthcare providers concerned, the provision of communication material and texts to facilitate the dissemination of information, the updating of the risk-based website.be. Indeed, no expiry date appears on the boxes, but a production date. As I said several times at the press conference, today it is as in the previous campaign; the mention is even clearer than in 2010. Currently, it is indicated on the boxes: "date of production" in all letters, instead of the current abbreviation "prod". This is justified by a practical reason; on the one hand, we want to avoid any confusion in the head of the citizen, and we want to be consistent in our general message of not using outdated medicines. On the other hand, from a scientific point of view, it is accepted that the potassium iodide present in the tablets is a very stable product and that, therefore, the tablets, subject to appropriate storage conditions, are usable for a very long period of time, perhaps for 20 or 30 years. The manufacturer guarantees, as a first step, a shelf life of 10 years and we have communicated this deadline. At the end of this period, the possibility of further use will be verified by carrying out test on control samples for each production batch. Pharmacists were also asked to say that the date mentioned was not the expiry date, as usual, but the date of production.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u21	Minister, in terms of consultation and provision, I have had a lot of contact with pharmacists. It wasn't a small sample. But it's the same in the communities. There have been shortcomings in terms of management and consultation. I am thinking in particular of the absence of the folders that arrived after the blow, while the patients were already asking for the iodine tablets that had arrived. That's too bad. I hope that now the problems are solved. With respect to the expiry date, the minister, previously, all pharmacists had to have 500 g of potassium iodide. You can't ignore it. What you can't ignore either is that they had an obligation to throw away this potassium iodide every two years, if I'm not mistaken, and buy it at their expense every time. It is interesting to note that yesterday there was an obligation to throw away and that all of a sudden the potassium iodide no longer has a expiry date. I find this a little paradoxical and very special. One wonders why pharmacists were forced to throw everything away. Finally, last part, I imagine that the Royal Decree of 21 January 2009 on the obligation of potassium iodide was then amended and that pharmacists are exempt from having to have 500 g of potassium iodide permanently. I imagine this was done, although I did not see a publication in the Monitor on an amendment to this 2009 Royal Order. Is this coming? Or has this been done? It may have escaped me. Minister, can you answer this supplementary question right away?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u22	In most pharmacies, the week before the communication, the folders had already been distributed as well as the drugs. Some even said they had too many boxes. In the 20-kilometre perimeter around the power plants, people were more sensitive and came faster. In the rest of the country, it started very slowly. It was especially the grandmothers who came. But we had enough boxes for that... [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u23	No, no, but for the royal decree, I'll have to check, because it was a royal decree that was dated before we started discussing here some other way of dispensing this iodine. Because before that, it was the army, wasn't it? It was the army that managed its storage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u24	No, no, every pharmacy had an obligation to dispose of 500 grams of potassium iodide.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u25	Yeah, too. But, well...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u26	By throwing them away very often, but frankly...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u27	Let the minister speak. You have the floor, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u28	No, as part of the emergency plan in the event of a nuclear incident, sufficient stocks were made up on the military premises. Only, start dispensing all this at the time of an alert, I think the army still has other things to do. So we turned to pharmacists. Because they are the closest to the citizens. As for the requirement for pharmacists to have 500 grams in stock, I must check whether this provision remains in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u29	Thank you, Madam Minister. I do think that would be consistent and logical. There is no point in requiring them to continue to store this potassium iodide in addition, of which they will never do anything, and moreover to throw it every two years, if I have good memory, in order to redeem it unnecessarily. I have no concern with the fact that this role lies with pharmacies. I had pleaded myself from the beginning for this to be the case. I simply ask that management be rigorous in this area and I find it a bit special that these small concerns have arisen – perhaps not in all pharmacies or in all regions but at least in a significant number of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u31	Madam President, Minister, I have asked many questions on this subject. It is a follow-up question following your answer in January, which raised some additional questions for me. The compulsory registration is included in the 1999 Royal Decree. The Law of 6 July 2007 supplemented that central registration also applies to data relating to embryo and gamete donation. The law on various provisions of 2015 clarifies this even further by highlighting its importance for the control of the six-women rule. You know that I am very disappointed, but you share that disappointment with me, that this central registration is still not there ten years after the law. In response to my previous question on 10 January, you said that the FAGG, in cooperation with the RIZIV and the Public Health Office, was asked to provide for the future e-BELRAP. Moreover, the modification of the nomenclature, the compulsory registration in BELRAP, is now also a criterion for reimbursement. You also said that data for 2007 could theoretically be included if the maximum of six families has not yet been reached and if they are also available in the medically assisted reproduction centres. It was those last two "ifs" that caused me even more concern. It is of course a good thing that the FAGG, in cooperation with the RIZIV and the FPS Public Health, is working on this, but I have some questions. Do you have a view of the timing, because we have been waiting ten years for this centralised registration? Do we talk about months, a year, different years? In the meantime, are there no other avenues to speed up this centralised registration? The linking of compulsory registration to the nomenclature seems to me to be a good thing and an incentive for the care providers to put this registration in order. Recently, however, there were examples from the Netherlands, which showed that the centres do not always take Dutch legislation very closely. Are there any other incentives to avoid this with us? In what way will control be carried out? In what way is registration being checked for all the necessary and, above all, coherent data? Are there any control mechanisms? Then I get the data from before 2007. You said that it would be theoretically possible if the maximum of six women had not been reached and if these data were still available. Why can this only happen when the maximum of six women is not reached? It seems important to me, especially since this legislation is changing more and more in Europe, that every treatment is registered, so that there can also be a check on that six-woman rule, which has never happened in the past. As early as 1975, the Code of Medical Diploma stipulated that doctors are obliged to keep records for 30 years after contact with the patient, which is also laid down in a 1999 Royal Decree. Centres that have failed to comply with this and have unjustly destroyed data, especially in the Netherlands, is why it is very apparent that the Code has not been complied with and has therefore actually broken the law, with sometimes dramatic consequences for the patients concerned. How is that controlled? What sanctions are in place for this? In what ways can patients themselves take action if their file appears to be destroyed before the expiry of the prescribed retention period? In the case of persons born from embryo or gamete donation, this 30-year retention period may not be sufficient. A certain hereditary condition can only manifest itself in a much later year of life. Is it not possible to draw up specific provisions for this purpose? Don't you think that's appropriate?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u32	I understand your impatience, Mrs van Peel, but the central registration, as laid down in the law of 6 July 2007, is, and appears to be, a complex matter. You know that this is being pursued, but the number of problems is greater than the number of solutions. As you know, a lot of work has already been done in the context of health data. In addition, the implementation of the general EU Data Protection Regulation or the GDPR will provide additional privacy regulation that needs to be taken into account. According to my services, there is the possibility of centralising that registration within the framework of the GDPR. It takes into account a public interest requirement, which concerns public health, and that would therefore be an easy path. Your comment concerning the retention periods of the medical record in case of medically assisted reproduction is justified. If women of childbearing age have that contact, they are no more than seventy years after the last contact. There may then be a manifestation of the grandchildren or great-grandchildren for which this information may still be needed. The general EU Data Protection Regulation will also strengthen the general culture of respect for privacy. Wherever the regulations provide for the retention of personal data, the time limit for this should be specified. I believe that in this context we will also have to review the relevant provisions of the law on medically assisted reproduction. We will probably have to sign up for a longer period than the 30 years that have always been the general rule. So far, 30 years after the last contact, or 10 years after the patient's death. That was the general rule. I believe that with the GPDR we will have a leverage to change that. You also asked why I said that it would be theoretically possible to record data from before 2007, if the maximum of six women has not been reached and if they are still available. So far, up to six women have worked for the same donor. The remaining samples were no longer allowed to be used, but there was no further registration of them. Those samples were supposedly exhausted after six women. In particular, there was a demand for control mechanisms. If we follow the track of the GPDR, I believe that these control mechanisms can be used. We will not just have to create control mechanisms on this issue, because when it comes to personal patient data, we will clash with the legislation on respect for privacy. I will not say very nice words about what my predecessors have done, but it is not normal that since 2007 this is being implemented. It was probably a very bad law if she wasn't enforceable. If one makes a law, one must also ensure that it is enforceable. Anyway...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u33	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, a little more positive than last time, because you now see a way out. I am also pleased that you want to think about these deadlines. I don't think the collision with privacy in the past explains why it hasn't happened yet. I think that in the Netherlands we can see the real reason why they are stalling. In my view, this has more to do with cooperation from the sector and the cases that can then emerge. As far as the six-woman rule is concerned, I hear you now saying that the information, if it has happened more than six times, has not been kept anyway. Of course, that doesn't mean it didn't happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u34	I have also read the Dutch examples. That's out of the ordinary there, too. The doctors at a fertility clinic were themselves donors to dozens of women. That was really abuse, commercial, distasteful and ethically irresponsible. If the law provides that only six women may be served by a sperm donor, what interest would a center have in exceeding that number? We should not think that such flagrant abuses have happened here. After all, these people have no profit at all. The conditions in the Netherlands came from another base. I do not want to put my hand in the fire about what has happened and what has not happened, but we have ethical procedures in the fertility centres. That can't just happen. I think we should have faith in the people in the fertility centers. They have done their best to follow the legal rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u35	I understand you say that. You may be talking about the last ten years, but when you look at files that are older, I fear that the same things will come up here. We'll see. If it ever works out, it'll come up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u36	Minister, my question is not dated today. Clearly, you are working on drafting a bill to provide industry with access to tissue and cell banks (bones, corneas, blood vessels and other human tissues). You know that today, in Belgium, we are also transplanting this type of tissue and cells and not just transplanting organs. These are tissue collected either after the death of a patient or after a biopsy or an examination. To date, these tissues have been strictly reserved and stored in tissue banks accessible only to physicians and researchers. If you allow industry, in legislation, to access these tissue and cell banks, this will obviously make it possible to obtain commercial applications. It's a first element I find intriguing. Beyond purely commercial application, the industry could also reap benefits by exporting them abroad. Of course, in Europe there is some form of protection arising from legislation. However, in particular in the United States, there are already commercializations with amounts that are exorbitant, leading to the pure and hard commodification of these tissues and cells. Moreover, members of the Conference of Academic Hospitals in Belgium, CHAB, are concerned about this measure, pointing both to international commodification with the example of the United States, but also to the way in which patients will have a say in this use of their tissues and cells by the industry. Indeed, in Belgium, we are in a way escaping behind the saying "which does not say word consent", i.e. a presumed consent. In this case, this raises a number of questions and problems about how the patient will be made aware of. These are often cells and tissues used after the patient's death. It's a first difficulty. Another difficulty concerns patients who have undergone biopsies or examinations and who would later realize the transfer of their tissues or cells. Minister, is it still your intention to move forward on such a bill, in which case, where are you? Do you confirm that you intend to make these tissue banks accessible to industry? What would be the modalities to avoid commercial applications and pure and hard profits, especially in the case of exports outside Europe? In addition, what modalities will you provide for the protection of patients and, more specifically, of their tissues and cells for their use? I know that a working group was formed on the subject, a working group in which CHAB was involved and which took the opportunity to convey a number of messages. Do you intend to go further in the dialogue in view of the extremely important ethical issues that arise in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u37	Minister, I am completing Mrs Fonck's speech with my questions. Indeed, I remember the working group on this 2008 law, which showed a willingness and concern that these data banks and collected human material should be used for research, for the doctor but above all never for commercial purposes. It is true that pharmaceutical companies, in particular, have in recent years been asking for their own bank of human body material. Compared to the bill that would be in the process of being drafted, if you are actually working on a project that will allow the industry to have access to this human material, does that mean that these tissue banks could be located outside university hospitals? Are there any other measures in place to ensure the informed consent of the person giving access to these tissues prior to his or her death, and to give him or her choice and specific information on the purpose of their use? It is known that the management of such a tissue bank can be financially profitable. So how can we combat the benefits that could be derived from commercial forms of these tissue uses? How can we be sure that international speculative trade can be combated and what strict ethical rules are laid down? Basically, it seems to me that there is no sense in expanding the use, use and collection of this human body material. I really don't see why the rules should be changed since, for scientific research, firms can now turn to existing tissue banks and introduce their research project. I would therefore like to understand the objectives pursued.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u38	Mrs Fonck and Mrs Gerkens, the draft law you are talking about has just been approved at first reading a few weeks ago in the Council of Ministers and is currently before the Council of State for its opinion. The pharmaceutical industry has access to these fabrics on condition that it has an approval as an "intermediate structure". This access will be highly supervised: allocation criteria will be defined and clinical use will remain a priority. It can only receive Belgian human body material through a bank of human body material operated by a Belgian hospital. The activities of the intermediate structure must have been previously approved by an ethics committee. Of course, the duly informed donor must have given his consent for the use of his tissues or cells. The Conference of Academic Hospitals of Belgium (CHAB) was associated with the preparatory work, as was the other actors concerned. The AFMPS will continue the dialogue. In short, the use and export of human body material is only possible in collaboration with a bank of human body material, after approval of the proposed activities - including the likely export - by an ethics committee and with informed consent of the donors. We therefore consider that sufficient locks have been installed in this bill, but we will notify after receiving the advice of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u39	Minister, this subject is extremely sensitive. If I ask you this question, obviously it is to work ahead of the bill. When a text is tabled in Parliament, we know that – as I always say – "the carrots are cooked", because of the law of the majority. With regard to your answer, the question of the sufficient strength of the beacons is clearly raised. I imagine that Belgian university hospitals with a tissue bank will be able to veto it? Will these banks remain in these institutions only? You did not answer that question. In terms of exports, are we able to know what will be done with these fabrics at the end of the world? Will they really be used for research or will they be resold, which would be totally unacceptable? You're talking about the consent of living donors. But cells and tissues can be taken after the donor's death. Do you consider that this donor remains alive for having been informed and given his consent during his lifetime? Or will there be double standards between the collection of tissues and cells from the donor's lifetime with a biopsy, an examination, etc., with informed consent, and post-mortem sampling? I don't know this bill, but I'm asking myself a lot of questions. From an ethical point of view, this subject seems to me to be very delicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u40	I still have several questions after your answer. You say that this principle will apply only to material collected by Belgian university hospitals. This means that tissue banks will only remain in these hospitals or tissue banks could exist within companies? Does consent also concern the type of use? Could these banks be used for commercial purposes by firms or companies? What about deceased patients? If we want an informed consent of the patient on the purpose of use, the possibility that his or her tissues may be used for commercial purposes after his or her death must be submitted to him or her during his or her lifetime. This project will change this question precisely, if I understand correctly, but I have not read it either.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u41	You go too far in your reasoning. I suggest that you discuss the matter when the bill comes back from the Council of State and when it is approved by the Council of Ministers. Indeed, it is because the case is very delicate that the work takes so much time. I repeat, you're really going too far. Indeed, you are talking about commercial activities, but that is not the case. We must be able to discuss it on the basis of a text, if we are to avoid scattering in all directions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u42	Madam President, Madam Minister, if you do not want to go further in the discussion, today we will be waiting for the text. But let me tell you that experts in this area have examined the text. These are university professors who work in CHAB hospitals. They sound alarmed against the content of the text and the insufficient beacons both in terms of consent and in terms of loopholes to a use that would be solely for therapeutic purposes or for research purposes. This signal is not annoyance. It's not about faltering. But we'll wait until we see.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u43	They're professors who don't trust the ethics committee they sat on! But I invite them to communicate to us, as well as to AFMPS, the text in question. In any case, I am all the more surprised that they were all concerted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u44	Minister, I did not say that they had not been coordinated since they were part of the working group. That's the first thing I said earlier. But the whole point is to know what you have chosen or not what has been discussed in this working group. This file clearly contains weak links. In such cases, it is our duty to provide safeguards that are not certain, but absolute.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u45	Madam Minister, if I asked you the question, it was because I had access to CHAB's letters, which were, of course, agreed, but which questions the question of whether the concerns and concerns will be taken into account, that she expressed through her questions. Of course, we will come back to the matter when you come forward with the text of the bill. It is also interesting that you could have heard our fears and possible drifts if the project was not sufficiently framed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u46	Questions Nos 24521 and 24565 by Mr Senesael are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u47	Minister, white areas are areas of particular concern to me because they are affected by the lack of quality telecommunications networks. The digitalization of the health sector is under way and is to be welcomed. The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Digital Agenda, Telecoms and Post Office, Alexander De Croo, has also launched a White Zone Action Plan with the aim of providing solutions to the citizens of communities that are still poorly connected. Health care professionals also face this problem, including home nurses and physicians to meet e-prescription or e-invoicing requirements. Minister, what are the measures for care providers in white areas as defined by Minister De Croo? Can claimants refer to derogations? If so, what are the modalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u48	Mr Clarinval, Minister De Croo did indeed say that he wanted to remedy the problem of white areas, as I asked him to do. He works there with the competent minister of the Walloon Region and the mayors of the municipalities concerned. The provisions on digitalisation of the health sector do not explicitly provide for exceptions for areas not covered by 4G. On the other hand, the issues of Internet access by providers who go to the patient's home without a Wi-Fi connection are known, including professional software providers. Technical solutions are being analysed in collaboration with the eHealth platform. In the long term, mobile apps for tablets or smartphones should allow professionals not to depend on the connection available at the patient's home. In addition, a rescue protocol will clearly describe the conditions and situations in which, for reasons of force majeure, the paper requirement can be relied upon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u49	Madam Minister, thank you for this information. I am counting on you to find solutions adapted to the specific problems of white areas. It would be unfair for both service providers and citizens in these areas to be punished twice. On the one hand, they already have little connectivity and, on the other hand, they face a sanction because of the measures taken by your services. I encourage you to continue the work in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u50	Madam President, Minister, as part of the Patient Future Pact with the pharmaceutical industry, access to innovative medicines has an important place. Three areas have been developed: accessible innovation, the focus on unmet medical needs and the focus on orphan drugs. I would like us to be able to take stock of the progress made in this pact, and in particular those three areas. Minister, can you make the point: - improvement of existing procedures in terms of shorter deadlines; - the possibilities of encouraging industry to introduce extension dossiers to other indications for marketing authorisation and reimbursement; - pilot projects for joint negotiations between Member States and companies on prices and reimbursement for orphan medicinal products; - the number of new innovative medicines approved for reimbursement to patients affected by rare diseases?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u51	Mr Clarinval, on April 1, 2018 - and this is not a joke - a new royal decree setting out the procedures, time limits and conditions for the intervention of compulsory health care insurance and allowances in the cost of proprietary medicinal products came into force. This Royal Decree provides for shorter periods of time for certain types of applications, but also administrative procedures which allow the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products to make more time available for the evaluation of more extensive dossiers. I am also working on a proposal to amend this new royal decree in order to further expand the shortened procedures for faster access to reimbursement. As regards the possibilities of encouraging industries to introduce dossiers of extensions to other indications for reimbursement, I am also actively working on a draft amendment to the new Decree of 1 February 2018 in order to create a well-defined framework for requests for extension of indication. This new framework should encourage industry to submit refund files for extensions to other indications. This preliminary draft was approved last Friday at the Council of Ministers. I can inform you that to date, several medicines, including orphan medicinal products, have been successfully evaluated jointly under the BeNeLuxA initiative (Belgium, Luxembourg, Netherlands and Austria), the INAMI Reimbursement Commission in Belgium and the Institute for Health Care in the Netherlands. Their collaboration on the evaluation section gave a unanimous opinion on the added value of the medicines evaluated. With regard to pilot projects for joint negotiations, several procedures are under way, under the guise of confidentiality. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that I certainly wish to include in these joint negotiations the provision of orphan medicines to our patients as soon as possible, and at a suitable price. This is fully in line with the Patient Futures Pact with the pharmaceutical industry, signed in July 2015, which aims primarily to make innovative therapies more accessible to patients, making it essential for the pharmaceutical industry to cooperate. However, it must also be taken into account that we cannot spend the budget for a single medicine either so that we can no longer repay other medicines at a socially acceptable price. It should also be recalled that in addition to the joint negotiations on specific issues, the BeNeLuxA initiative also places emphasis on mutual consultation between the different authorities on policy issues concerning prices and refunds. At the same time, information is exchanged between the different participating Member States on the willingness to pay for certain innovative medicinal products, including orphan medicinal products. Since the signing of the Pact of the Future in July 2015 and until 1 April 2018, 21 new "orphan" medicines, i.e. to treat rare diseases, have been included in the list of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products. In the case of innovative but non-orphan medicines, 44 have been included in the list of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products over the same period. It is really the "rattrapage" of a phenomenon that arose before the signing of the Pact of the Future when we lacked in our country of innovations, of accessibility to these medicines. We still remember the debate in this committee on the problem of rare diseases, but also on other diseases which can be treated with innovative and effective medicines, but which were not yet registered because they were systematically rejected by the Commission for the reimbursement of medicinal products. This is a discussion in which I feel that the patient is really disadvantaged by an inadequate type of procedure and policy and that is precisely what I wanted to change.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u52	Madam President, I thank the Minister for this very comprehensive response. She knows that access to innovative medicines is a priority for us. I see that the policy implemented is bearing fruit. The assessment already presented today is very positive. I can only encourage the minister to continue in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u53	Questions Nos 24592 by Mr Senesael and 24599, 24600 and 24601 by Mrs Fonck are postponed. The attached questions No 24517 by Mrs Muylle and No 24544 by Mr Senesael are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u54	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns competences which are divided between different ministers and regions. Researchers from the University of New York and the American journalist organisation Orb Media have discovered that on average there would be ten pieces of plastic of 0.1 millimeters large in a litre of bottled water. The research into the effects of microplastics in our body is still in its infancy. A study by Ghent University in early 2017 showed that plastic particles can migrate through our intestinal wall. The real health risks are not yet well known. It is clear, however, that we are dealing with microplastics almost always and everywhere. Microplastics are determined each month in a new product. Last year we talked about plastic in our mussels and in our drinking water, now apparently the bottled water is up. How do you estimate the risk to public health? What studies do you know about this and what do you think of this? The Flemish Parliament has discussed a resolution calling for a number of steps to be taken by the Flemish Government. Have you set up cooperation with the Flemish Minister for the Environment in the context of that resolution? Has anything happened in that area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u55	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, the competent services of the Public Health Office have studied the study and the first conclusions are as follows. The study of the State University of New York, Fredonia, brings little new original scientific knowledge. It also condemns major methodological constraints, which also complicate the interpretation of the results. The fluorescent marker used to quantify the microplastics, with the noble name Red Nile, does not bind specifically to the microplastics, which can lead to measurement errors, interpretation errors and the submission of false positive results with biological particles. Another limitation is the non-use of statistical methods to determine whether the observed differences between the results, in particular with the blank samples, were statistically significant. It is therefore not possible to ascertain whether the particles detected are from an external contamination. The microfibres in the air of the laboratory, the manipulators or the material are a possible source of cross contamination. Another similar study, but of better quality, used by the Raman spectroscopy, was published in 2018 under the well-sounding name Schymanski. This study observed lower doses, with 188 microplastics per litre for reusable plastic bottles and 14 microplastics per litre for single-use bottles. The study also discovered microplastics in glass water bottles and in water in cardboard packaging. It has shown that 70% of the microparticles were between 5 and 20 micrometers in size. Knowledge of the potential danger to the health of consumers is still very limited. A hypothesis is that the risk could depend on the size of the particles. The European Food Safety Authority published an overview of available knowledge in 2016. It concludes that the uptake of the microparticles would be less than 150 μm through the intestines. Only the smallest particles, smaller than 1.5 micrometers, could penetrate the organs. No human study of dietary intake of these microparticles has shown adverse health effects, except for a study with an unrealistic dose of 15 grams of PET in rice pap. This study was carried out by EFSA in 2016. The theme of these microparticles in the food chain and the related need for additional studies has been put on the European agenda as a research priority for risk assessment. However, the risk should be taken into account in relation to other themes. So this item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed reply. There are undoubtedly good and bad studies, but I was mainly concerned to find out whether or not we are doing so. I understand that this was placed on the European agenda. I also believe that this is an excellent subject to see bigger than just in Belgium. Has there been any consultation between the Flemish and the federal authorities, since they seem to be working on this? I would like to take a look at this at Belgian level as well. Thank you very much for this state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u57	Madam Minister, recently we discussed in detail the circumcisions of women following an initiative by Mrs Van Hoof. The report that there are indications that in our country too, namely Mechelen, Brussels, Liège and Charleroi, women's circumcisions are being carried out by doctors, not only on girls who live and live here but also in our country itself, has shocked me. The idea would be that the circumcision would happen in that way at least safely. That staggering finding was brought out by the medical journal MediQuality. Usually these doctors register the procedure under a fixed nomenclature, so that some circumcisions god improve even by the RIZIV would be refunded. Madam Secretary, you responded through your spokesperson and stated that you wanted to investigate and respond appropriately, should the information be confirmed. I totally agree with that. What's happened in the meantime? In the meantime, have you started the investigation? My question dates back to the end of March 2018. Are there any results of your investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u58	Madam Minister, I cannot add much to Mrs Jiroflée's question. After all, I fell steeply back when I read the message and learned of the argument put forward that the procedure is at least safe. With all due respect, mutilation is mutilation. There is no such thing as a safer mutilation that we can justify. These are very serious facts, which are also carried out by our doctors. We all agree that we are talking about dangerous practices that are of no use except to humiliate and dishonor women completely. The whole committee agrees that this is not possible. You rightly stated that you would investigate the case. It is, of course, a justified remark that you must first check whether this is true. Have you been able to take any steps in this respect? Do you have any answers? What's the outcome? Will you also talk to the Order of Doctors so that they can remind certain doctors of the criminal law in force, although I cannot imagine that this is necessary? Can it be ensured through the Order of Doctors that the information ends up in one way or another with the judicial services, of course with respect for professional secrecy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u59	Madam Minister, I can only endorse the two previous speakers. Recent reports in the press indicate that doctors in our country would carry out circumcisions on women and that they would even have such interventions reimbursed by the RIZIV under a false nomenclature. That is, of course, unacceptable. You announced that you were going to have it investigated. Last month, you reported that some of those messages are based on rumors. In the absence of names, it is always difficult to find a source to start an investigation, I understand that, of course. However, the problem of reimbursement of circumcisions for non-medical reasons in general is wider. Some time ago, the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics unanimously advised that such circumcisions should not be repaid by the RIZIV. That aspect, in addition to what the previous speakers have already said, would also be examined further. Madam Minister, my questions are in line. With regard to the barbaric practices of women's circumcision, what are you doing to investigate where and by whom? What is the deadline for the completion of this investigation? Are there any indications of refunds of female circumcisions by the RIZIV? Could you clarify that, if necessary? What is your position on the matter? To what extent do you intend to deal with these barbaric practices? How far do you want to go and how do you think you can do that? What is the state of the investigation of the opinion of the Belgian Advisory Committee on Bioethics? Within what time limit can you tell us what measures you will take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u60	Madam President, I have already addressed the issue in detail at the plenary session on 29 March because Mrs Van Hoof asked a question about an article. It's one article, taken over by tutti quantumi. The article was written by Mr Van Impe, purely on the basis of rumours. That article was then taken over by everyone and so it almost becomes true, as it is already on websites and in newspapers so many times. That's how contemporary journalism works. Some are now talking about all articles, but there is only one article on which to base. Let us be clear, I have made it clear that female genital mutilation is a barbaric practice with severe penalties. Should that happen effectively in our country, I will ensure that the guilty are severely punished. I will do everything I can to get that file to my colleague from the Justice Department. The criminal and judicial aspects are known there. Mrs. Pas, you're throwing everything in a pile here. The opinion of the Bioethics Committee concerned circumcisions in boys. This is about women's circumcisions. In connection with female circumcisions, you are talking here about medical and non-medical indications. I should know, there's no known medical indication for a female circumcision. For boys, that's the case. They may need circumcision because of fimosis. So let's keep making the distinction. You speak of circumcisions in general, but that simply does not exist. There is female circumcision and male circumcision, which are also two very different surgical techniques. It is therefore unacceptable and unthinkable that such interventions should be carried out in our country, certainly by doctors but also by anyone. No doctor shall participate in such an attack on the physical and psychological integrity of a person. Secondly, according to the same article, there are rumors that the nomenclature codes are being misused, so that such interventions would be repaid by the RIZIV. That message fell steeply behind, because until now there has never been any sign that such a mutilation could happen under the RIZIV nomenclature in our country. I have therefore made an appeal to pass on facts that can be investigated. We have contacted GAMS, among other things, the association against female circumcision in our country. She has no knowledge of such practices, any more than the RIZIV or the Order of Doctors. No such complaint has yet been lodged with the public prosecutor. I have, on the one hand, an article on a serious subject, on which everyone is outraged and which I would like to have examined, but on the other hand I have no facts that I can have investigated. It's like someone was killed, but they don't know who, they don't know where, they don't know who, but there's got to be an investigation. That's hard. I'm not even looking for a needle in a haystack. I want to do that, and I'm calling here to come up with facts and figures to have them examined, but I can't investigate anything if I don't know if it exists. If such practices do indeed occur, I will personally file a complaint with the public prosecutor and ask the Order of Doctors to be aware of this. It's already in the Code. So there's no problem for the Order to act. Anyway, so far I have no evidence, except the article, which was copied many times because of course it was quite shocking in all respects. I want to, but I need a leg to get up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u61	Madam Secretary, I fully understand. For the record, I have only referred to one article. You can, of course, argue that this is a message in the gazet, but if Members read something like this and you yourself reacted immediately, then it is only logical that we should ask you for an investigation. I think everyone agrees with that. I'm glad you're making a call here to specific cases. If it is true that there are no concrete cases, then I think that at the moment we can only keep the subject warm with all those involved, first and foremost with the Order of Doctors. We'll follow up on the file. I hope that the fact that nothing concrete has been demonstrated means that it does not happen. I think we all hope the same here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u62	I hope so too!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u63	I think we all agree on that. I understand that you cannot do more than call for facts if there are no concrete cases. You say that no specific complaints have been made. The victims are also very young and it is all very difficult to trace. However, rumors have been around for a long time. Following a debate in plenary last month, it was repeated that every ten seconds somewhere in the world a girl is being genitally mutilated. We will support you to do everything in our power to prevent this. I understand you're a very combative man in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u64	Madam Secretary, care professionals cannot bill their own home care services. I have already asked questions on this subject to raise this issue. As a result, nurses in home care take those delegated acts into account. In this way, especially in the case of large self-employed nursing practices, there are much higher profiles and real outliers, since it is written on one conto, often from the primary nurse or the responsible nurse, so that it cannot be traced back to the care professional. I have received practical examples showing that the Commission's profiles really responds to such outliers, which are entirely due to them. This shows that this is really not taken into account. That's why I'd like to get a ruling from you. Is this taken into account in the profiles committee? How exactly does that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u65	Mrs Van Camp, on the basis of the profile data available to the RIZIV, a distinction is made between benefits in kind carried out by nurses and benefits in kind carried out by health professionals but charged by nurses. The profiles committees have been inactive since the end of 2015. Actions against fraud are controlled by the Anti-Fraud Commission, which brings together all the services of the RIZIV and the insurance institutions. The different methods of charging are therefore indeed taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u66	Madam Minister, I find it strange, because the practice shows that this often leads to situations where this is not the case. I have to look into it, and if it is not, I will ask for the figures, but I believe that I have already requested the figures and that it is not possible to tell who is billing and who is charging them. So it seems to me that there is no difference. I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u67	I have received the information from the services that they do have a different number for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u68	Madam President, Minister, more than a year ago, a resolution was adopted in this Chamber to improve care for people with epilepsy. A year later, I would like to know what points of the resolution have been achieved in the meantime. Let me repeat the questions of the resolution, so that you can always indicate where you stand with them. The first question was to set up a registration for epilepsy, including prevalence, incidence, treatment, outcome and costs. Can you get us all the numbers? Have you shown the indirect costs and quality of care, as requested? Secondly, you would work with the states, health institutions, healthcare experts, patient organisations and other relevant stakeholders to raise public awareness of epilepsy as universal, treatable brain disease, thus combating stigma, making treatment options more visible and leading people to treatment options. Have you worked on that yet? The penultimate question in the resolution concerned patients' access to information on the condition and treatment options. We asked for a better distribution and also to consider whether it would be feasible, for example, to designate an epilepsy nurse, in line with the example of the United Kingdom, where they were allocated to the reference centres. Finally, more extensive EBM guidelines would also be set up to better design care, including referral to refractory epilepsy. I'd like to get an update on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u69	Mrs Van Camp, I have checked with the competent services in the womb of the RIZIV. The RIZIV is working on a series of conventions and therefore has a lot of work to do. Some of them need to implement the reforms we are implementing, for example on integrated care projects. We are also working on a number of pathology-oriented conventions, such as the NGS Convention on Cancer Diagnostics, the recent reform of the diabetes convention, the implementation of the MSA Convention in preparation of Flor Van Noppen's resolution, the rare tumors and the reform of the AIDS Reference Centre Convention. This item is also queued. So our services are a little overloaded. The same determination applies to the activation of the national register for epilepsy. This is in the queue with health data for the realization of the central pathological registers. In this respect, too, a series of projects are under discussion and others are waiting. As regards the EBM practice guidelines, these are already available for the treatment of epilepsy in children and adults, as well as for the treatment of long-term seizures and status epilepticus. The latter Directive was published on the EBMPracticeNet on 7 May 2018 and is addressed to general practitioners and pharmacists. As far as the special nurses and reference centres are concerned, I believe that this could indeed be a useful investment. You know that people are not asking for a lot of savings in social security for so long. I am doing everything I can with the resources at my disposal, but you should know that there are priorities and that new initiatives cannot be launched without removing other expenditure. This is always a very sensitive matter. I have a lot of interest in this right now, but I don't have a penny for it. Maybe you can do something about that with your influence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u70	Thank you, Madam Secretary. In what period is it possible? In your opinion, the proposal is in the queue. When will this proposal take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u71	You also know that our administrations have to deal with fewer and fewer people. The fewer people an administration counts, the bigger the queue gets. We'll have to be patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u72	Madam Secretary, within a few months, I will ask you again about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u73	Madam Secretary, I was given the testimony of a caregiver on the premises about problems with the billing of administered care to a neighbor. I suspect, by the way, that more people are in this situation. The concrete example is a caregiver who gives care to his own disabled child. The healthcare provider in question is a nurse who charges this to the CM. The CM has always paid this back. That seems logical to me, because if the parent were not to do so as a nurse himself, professional help would have to be called in and billed at the same rate. In this particular case, the CM suddenly comes up with a letter stating that the care should not be charged. They refer to the Civil Code, Article 203 on parental maintenance obligations to children. Madam Secretary, can you clarify this? Can a healthcare professional provide paramedical care to a close friend, for example his own child, and also bill that care? Do you think it is possible that the CM will suddenly recover EUR 12 000 in transactions, which have been paid out for years? I think it would be more humane to send a letter, if in doubt, which will no longer be reimbursed, for example, instead of sending an invoice of EUR 12 000 suddenly to a health care provider. That is a disaster that cannot be borne. Can the CM charge such amounts with retroactive effect, while in the past the repayment years have been repaid?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u74	It is, of course, difficult to comment on an individual case where a mutuality is suddenly recovering EUR 12 000. The law on compulsory medical care and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994, does not explicitly prohibit the charging of medical benefits in kind to family members. There is no such explicit prohibition in the Code of Medical Deontology. As an employee of the public service, a healthcare provider is always personally responsible for the correct payment of benefits to the compulsory health insurance. There is a duty of supervision and a duty of accounting and the payments must be reasonably justified. For the first, there is a judgment of the 2003 Constitutional Court, the other is on the website of the RIZIV, of which I can provide you with the link. The Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV ensures that, for example, a health care provider does not charge unnecessary or unnecessarily expensive benefits in kind within the meaning of Article 73a of the GVU Act. In the case of nurses, Article 8 (8) of the Nomenclature states: "Wood care which can be carried out by the recipient himself or by the care provider, or which can be taught to the recipient or to the care provider, may not be charged." For example, when it comes to parents who are the carers of a resident minor child, that care should not be charged. Mrs Van Camp, I do not know if your question in this case is about that case. My services cannot therefore judge whether it is indeed an unjustified nature of the concerns that have been raised. If medical care is really involved, then there is no problem, because then the caregiver-parent concerned can continue to charge for the provision of care. However, if the services provided are covered by the foregoing, and if they are not genuine benefits, then those benefits should not be charged. The CM has taken a decision on this and it is important to know the reasons for this. You know that the health care provider always has the opportunity to appeal against the decision if he or she does not agree with the assessment and justification of the insurance institution. I'm sure I'd advise them to have that cleared up. Those people need more information. As far as the retroactive effect is concerned, do you have any idea how many years this is going to take? It'll be a few years anyway. One can then ask why they have never made a comment on this. It has been paid back for years, and now it is suddenly wanted to happen with years of retroactivity on these people's stories. I understand it would be a huge amount of money to have to pay back. With the knowledge of the case I have now and with the advice my services have given me, I would advise them to link back to the CM and appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u75	Madam Secretary, thank you, that is quite clear. I will give them your answer so that they can proceed with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u76	Question No 24668 by Mrs Isabelle Galant and question No 24673 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u77	Madam President, Minister, Ocrelizumab is a brand new medicine for the treatment of multiple sclerosis that slows the decline of patients. It eliminates the attacking white blood cells. The damage to the nervous system is slowing down. That was the good news. Farmareus Roche, who markets the medicine, has a similar, different medicine, Rituximab, which works almost in the same way. However, it was originally developed for the treatment of cancers, including leukaemia. Several studies seem to show that it also helps MS patients. However, several scientists across Europe doubt whether the new medicine works better than the old one. Only the old ones are not refunded by the RIZIV, or at least not for MS treatments. Ocrelizumab is not yet reimbursed in our country, but insiders expect patients to be able to start treatment in 2018. Such treatment is expected to cost EUR 24 000 per year and per patient. Treatment with the elderly Retuximab would cost only 6 600 euros per year and per patient. From an economic perspective, the development of the new medicine is of course much more interesting for Roche. After all, the patent for Retuximab has long expired. Moreover, there are cheaper generic resources on the market. For the new medicine, another patent could be applied for, which means the price is higher. It is not the first time Roche has been able to lend himself to this kind of questionable practice. In 2017, I seem to recall that the farmareus tried to prevent a cheaper means of treating cataracts in order to sell more of a more expensive product. Madam Secretary, I would have liked to know the following. What is the state of play in Belgium regarding the introduction and reimbursement of Ocrelizumab? How do you assess the discussion about whether or not to repay both the new and the old means? Will the refund be dealt with or not? If so, how will action be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u78	Madam President, Madam Secretary, I have lost my vote. So in the case of combined questions, I deliberately keep it very brief. It concerns two similar medicines and the same problem. Both drugs will not be refunded. However, the company or the manufacturer Roche tries to push through one, much more expensive means and to avoid the other. In other words, we can call it a false innovation and profit drive on the patient's hood. Can you shed your light on this and explain to us exactly what it is like? What about a refund of the new medicine Ocrelizumab? What do you choose? Do they meet the required conditions? Are you going to renegotiate with the manufacturer the conditions that the manufacturer lays down or do you prefer to recognise Rituximab for MS treatments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 December 2017, the pharmaceutical company Roche submitted an application to the Commission for registration on the list of Proprietary Medicinal Products that can be reimbursed. This procedure is still in progress and I cannot therefore provide you with any information on it. As long as this procedure is under way in the CTG, I cannot see it and I cannot address anyone. In accordance with Article 35a (1) of the Law on compulsory medical care insurance and benefits, applicants are the undertakings placing proprietary medicinal products on the Belgian market. In this case Roche is the applicant. The Minister for Social Affairs or the CTG may initiate a change in the methods of reimbursement for a recoverable proprietary medicinal product. If the price and/or the reimbursement basis is changed at the request of the committee, the application should be justified primarily by the medical evidence collected following new or amended national or international guidelines. Currently, there is insufficient or no conclusive evidence of the efficacy of Rituximab in the treatment of multiple sclerosis. The doctors already have a great deal of freedom in the choice of medicines in Belgium. A reduction in the reimbursement of certain medicinal products is provided for in order to ensure the proper use of certain directives, while respecting the medical evidence, even if the speciality/indication concerned is not registered. I'm gonna have to wait and see what else comes out of the CTG. It is indeed a long procedure. I've looked again, and it doesn't seem like for the first few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u80	If there is no further news at the moment, I will ask my question again within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u81	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. This is gonna be a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u82	Minister, recently, the Deans of the Faculty of Psychological Sciences and the Faculty of Education sent you a letter in which they wanted clarification on various aspects of the law. At the beginning of this academic year, the first promotion of future clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues began its training in Belgian universities. This promotion will be subject to the application of the new law on the practice of health care professions. The Deans would like clarification, in particular, of the concept of "normal exercise of autonomous acts" in the definitions of clinical psychology practice and clinical orthopedagogy. They ask whether holders of a master's degree in psychological sciences who have not completed a professional internship can nevertheless do the activities described in the law, under the supervision of a recognized clinical psychologist or orthopaedagogue, or in a multidisciplinary team, or whether only recognized clinical psychologists or orthopedagogues are allowed to carry out the actions or activities described in the law. Finally, they seek clarification of the financial aspect of the professional internship that the clinician psychologist or clinician orthopaedagogue must follow. Minister, do you have any additional information to provide?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u83	Mr. Thiéry, I did receive a letter from the Deans of Psychology and Educational Sciences from six universities. This letter was not just addressed to me. It was also addressed to my colleagues in the Communities. An answer to the questions you are referring to was sent to the deans of the French and Flemish faculties on January 10. The exercise of clinical psychology is reserved for holders of a diploma in clinical psychology who have completed a professional internship and have introduced an approval from the competent Community authority. However, a derogation is provided for anyone who was already engaged in clinical psychology or had started his studies in clinical psychology on the date of the coming into force of the Act of 10 July 2016. In the meantime, the Federal Council for Mental Health Care Professions has issued an opinion on the criteria for the accreditation of clinical psychologists, on the one hand, and for clinical orthopedagogues, on the other, as well as on the professional internship, including the accreditation criteria for traineeships and internship services. The opinions have been sent to me in recent weeks. They are currently under consideration, before they are transposed into new regulations. In the opinions of the Federal Council of Mental Health Care Professions, the theme of intern funding during the internship was most supervised. I can transmit my answer to the Dean electronically. Having received the opinions of the Federal Council is a major step forward. They did a good job.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u84	Madam Minister, thank you. The information was obviously not yet available at the time I tabled my question. The main thing is that you gave an opinion and responded to the Dean. We are interested in a copy of the reply you sent him. But the most important thing is to have made contact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u85	We can send the mail to the secretariat who will transfer it to the members. We'll also put it on the intranet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u86	Madam President, Madam Minister, the original written question No. I tabled 1523 as an oral question because after a year I was not allowed to receive an answer. The question is about Article 81 contracts. On my previous question on this subject, No. 16335, you announced more transparency and you immediately gave the right signal by exactly naming the amount of refunds under Article 81. For 2017, it was 238 million euros. Does this include only the conditional refunds or does it cover all the discounts stipulated under Article 81, including, for example, the price reductions of funds already repaid in the same company's portfolio with which another medicinal product was subject to the Article 81 procedure? Could you also indicate the amounts for the last five years? For the time being, you only gave them for 2017. Is there always a check on whether the relapses are correct and complete? Have there been any disputes about this before? It concerns, for example, cases where it was agreed to refund a certain amount, but where it was not or incomplete, or a dispute about exceeding the intended number of patients, if that was part of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u87	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, I asked why. The information was requested, but not given. You are asking for a lot of figures, and apparently such questions are being put to a lot of attention. I can get annoyed about that, but I can't stand next to it. At present, the overall calculation of expenditure and refunds under the agreements for Article 81 medicinal products does not take into account the price reductions on proprietary medicinal products other than the medicinal product covered by the agreement. I have a table for you showing the total turnover and compensation for the Article 81a medicines for the last few years. The total turnover may include expenditure on definitively reimbursed medicinal products for which reimbursement is only partially effected under a contract. Given the small number of products repaid under Article 81 agreements in 2012, these figures cannot be released, so that confidentiality is not compromised. I've got the numbers for you since 2013. The recovery rate was 27 % in 2013, 27 % in 2014, 26.3 % in 2015 and 24.78 % in 2016. Compliance with the contracts and the refund of the correct amounts is closely followed by the RIZIV. There is no knowledge of disputes or disputes in this regard. I'll get you the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u88	Thank you for that, Madam Secretary. I'll look into the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u89	Madam Minister, this is also a written question, No. 1518, which I tabled as an oral question because after a year I have not received an answer to it. My questions are as follows. What about intercepting counterfeit medicines in Belgium? Can you provide data on the evolution of the annual number of drugs intercepted over the last five years, broken down by year and by region? Is it possible to indicate where the goods were found? Is it about import ports like Antwerp and Ghent? Is this about intercepting medicines and packages at airports such as Zaventem, Charleroi, Ostend or Liège? Is it possible to develop the annual value of the intercepted medicinal products? Can you also outline an evolution of the countries of origin of the falsified medicines? How many large importers of counterfeit medicines have been prosecuted in the last five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u90	Mrs Van Camp, my services of the pharmaceutical agency FAGG are working closely with customs, which intercepts shipments of possible counterfeit medicines and immediately informs the FAGG. In 2017, a special investigation unit of the FAGG seized 4 472 consignments from third countries containing illegal or counterfeit medicines. These were often small quantities of illegal medicines ordered on the Internet by private individuals for personal use. Some shipments were more burdensome and seizures were followed by the opening of an administrative or judicial inquiry. The number of consignments seized in 2016 was 4 850, in 2015 4 277, in 2014 3 781 and in 2013 2 013. There is an increase, partly due to increased controls. In addition, the FAGG participates annually in the Pangea action in which checks are carried out, together with customs and police. An action in September led to the inspection of 8 547 postal consignments. Of these controlled packages, 336 consignments were blocked on suspicion of the presence of illegal medicinal products or medical devices. The FAGG subsequently seized 136 consignments. In the previous Pangea actions, the FAGG seized 99 shipments in 2016, 68 in 2015, 108 in 2014 and 105 in 2013. The Belgian figures are fairly stable, but it should be noted that there is continuous cooperation with customs in Belgium. As a result, the seizures during these actions are not exceptional, compared to seizures in other countries, thanks to closer cooperation with customs. I don't have numbers per region. However, it is very important to note that, to date, in Belgium, no counterfeit medicinal product has been detected in the legal circuit, i.e. in pharmacists and hospital pharmacists. The Belgian patients are therefore well protected when they buy medicines in the pharmacy and when they are cared for in hospitals. In the port of Antwerp there is a cooperation between the FAGG and customs. Illegal medicines found here are delivered to and seized by the FAGG. From the port of Ghent, the FAGG has not yet received a report on illegal medicines. Controls are carried out on medicines at the airports in Zaventem, Charleroi, Ostend and Bierset. The control of mail shipments is mainly carried out by bpost but also by a large number of freight forwarders such as DHL, UPS and FedEx. Due to the very variable prices to which medicines are traded online, my services cannot estimate the true value of the seized medicines. In addition, the products rarely have a purchase amount or an invoice. The fictitious value that the seized goods would represent, if they were purchased as legal Belgian medicines, is therefore very difficult to determine. Data from the 2017 Pangea Action show that the countries whose most counterfeit medicines come from are India, China and Thailand. The previous Pangea action had already shown that Singapore and the US are new countries from which counterfeit medicines originate. Here we also see that this trend is continuing. Your last question concerns the competence of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u91	Madam Secretary, the figures are familiar to me. I think I read them in the paper this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u92	Madam President, Madam Minister, originally this question was my written question No. 1516, which I tabled as an oral question because it had been pending for a year without an answer. Following a hospital stay, many patients start with new medicines. Hospitals therefore play an important role in familiarising patients with generic medicines. Madam Secretary, what is the proportion of generic medicines in the totality of the medicines used in the hospital over the last five years? Can you make a breakdown per year and per region? What is the proportion of generic medicines in the totality of the medicines used in the hospital over the past five years, for which there has been a generic alternative? Can you make a breakdown per year and per region? What action has been taken over the past year to encourage hospitals to use generic medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u93	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, I have a number of tables here, the paper version of which I am handing over to you and of which I am also giving a copy to the committee secretariat. The first set of tables shows the reimbursement units/packages delivered by the hospital officinas, divided into original medicines, including orphan medicines, imported medicines and generic medicines copies. Table 1.1 shows the absolute results and Table 1.2 shows the same data percentagely. The same information is given in Tables 1.3 and 1.4 but in defined daily doses. The following tables provide similar information, but only for medicinal products for which there is some kind of alternative generic or copy. Table 2.1 shows absolute results, expressed in number of packages and Table 2.2 shows the same data in percentage terms. Table 2.3 and 2.4 contain the same information, but also DDD. The pharmaceutical formula in hospitals and its annual recalculation, taking into account savings measures, provide a powerful incentive to lead hospitals to generic medicines. Moreover, since 1 January 2018, the low-cost prescription quotas for specialists have been increased according to the operative part 60. Madam President, with a view to the report, we will also provide the tables by electronic means.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u94	Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u95	Madam Minister, this was written question No. 1498. I put them orally because she's been hanging on for over a year. It's about the GMD, which requires an effort on GP and health insurance. There is a fee attached to it and it increases the compensation to the patient. On the other hand, the GMD is an important tool to combat waste and provide the best quality of care. We have already had discussions here about the implementation of the GMD, but I would like, apart from the implementation of the GMD, to get a little more insight and to make something out of it. First of all, how many patients have a GMD with the GP? What is its evolution over the past five years, in total and split by Land? Secondly, is there a difference in patient profile between patients for which a GMD has been created and others? Is it produced more in people with chronic illness, for example? Thirdly, can you give the average expenditure on health care split up for patients with and patients without GMD? The latter with the remark that the GMD is not always filled in as well. With this calculation something can be said about the payback effects. Finally, what has been the total annual expenditure of the GMD over the past five years and broken down by Land? How many contributions were paid to general practitioners for this purpose for what total amount? How much are the additional costs for health insurance due to the higher compensation to patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u96	Mrs Van Camp, the answer has been extended and contains a number of comments on the tables and calculations carried out on the permanent sample, an extrapolation of which has been made to all Belgian social insured persons for the total and with a breakdown by Land. I give you the decisions and I hand over the tables to the committee for further investigation. In 2014, the number of beneficiaries with a GMD reached 5.6 million people at the GP, i.e. not registered in a medical home that works under the flat rate. These are therefore the extrapolated figures, continuing on the sample. This is 51.5 % of the population of socially insured persons in Belgium. That percentage has increased slightly since 2011. In Flanders, the proportion of beneficiaries with a GMD is significantly higher than in Wallonia and Brussels. We have, by extrapolation, the following figures for that year: 61.6 % in Flanders, 41.3 % in Wallonia, and only 29.2 % in Brussels. In Wallonia there has been an increase in the number of beneficiaries with an GMD since 2011. This has not so far been the case in Brussels. In reply to your second question, I give you the decision. There is much more explanation in the text. Socially insured persons with a GMD have a different profile than right holders without a GMD, in the sense that beneficiaries with a GMD are often women and relatively older than 65. In percentage terms, there are more right holders with a GMD who pay a preferential rate, and they often have the status of a person with a chronic condition. For the "living alone" factor, there is no overall difference. However, differences are found within each region, in the sense that there are relatively more right holders living alone in the group with GMD. In reply to your third question, on the basis of the same sample, by extrapolation, it appears that the social insured persons with an GMD have on average higher annual expenditures than right holders without GMD. In 2014, this difference increased from around 1 150 euros for rightholders without GMD to over 2 500 euros for rightholders with a GMD. In reply to your fourth question, I can say that the calculations were made on the basis of other parameters, based on DOCN and carried out by the actuarial examiner. The opening of the MMD, the extension of expenditure on the prevention module and the increase for chronic diseases were also taken into account. The data recorded are for 2012 and 2016. In 2016, an acceleration was established with regard to the extension of the GMD. The decision is that the increase in the number of CMDs involved an increase in expenditure. In 2016, there were additional increases for chronically ill patients. Any contributions paid to the general practitioner are not directly linked to the GMD. Therefore, we do not have this information in our data files. As regards question 4c, this will be answered again on the basis of the sample. The same comment is therefore made on extrapolations. The additional costs for the increased reimbursement of consultations and visits of general practitioners to beneficiaries with a GMD amounted to over 58 million in 2014. I will also provide all these tables to the secretariat of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u97	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It's a higher edition. I still have to look at the figures in detail, but if the population contains more elderly people, more people with increased benefits and more chronically ill people, then of course one cannot make the comparison unless one would correct it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u98	Mrs Van Camp, you have the floor for your next question on 'the visits of general practitioners' (No. 24752)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u99	Madam President, the answer to that question was sent to Mrs Van Camp by e-mail on 10 July 2017 or actually to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u100	Madam President, Madam Minister, the question is also listed on the Chamber's website as an answer. However, we have never had the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u101	Something must have gone wrong. So I will give you the answer again. I do not just do that, because the answer contains many tables and is very detailed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u102	We have noticed that the question was noted as an answer. According to the Chamber's website, the answer was delivered to us. We checked twice, but we didn't get anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u103	We also had to look, because with us the question stood as an answer. I have here the e-mail of the employee in question, who sent the reply to the Chamber on Monday 10 July 2017 at 16:35. During holiday periods, however, this can always be lost. It was to save time! It's almost 10 pages, with paintings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u104	That's right! We will check with the written questions department.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u105	This can happen. We had to look, because at home, she was considered to have been treated and sent. It's obviously not lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u106	We'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u107	Madam President, Minister, this is the second last question in the series of written questions that I am now putting orally because I have not received an answer to it in a year. It's about aftercare at the PIP implants. It is now five years since this scandal came to light because women were confronted with leaking breast implants due to inferior quality. Then Minister Onkelinx assured at the time that all affected women could be examined and that the costs of both the research and the possible revision would be covered by health insurance. Do you have any idea how many women have actually presented themselves to a health care provider for research and/or revision since the PIP scandal came into the media? Can you give the total number per year and split by region? Do you have any idea in which cases it was precisely in the context of PIP? Then I could conclude that during that period everyone with breast implants has been on check and has been taken into account for a refund of the revision. What exactly was the arrangement designed to check that out? What cost has health insurance since then made a total per year for consultations, investigations and revision, so everything included? Has it actually been investigated whether these costs can be recovered from the responsible manufacturer? It's kind of weird that taxpayers have to pay for that. We do, of course, agree that everyone should receive a refund. These investigations and revisions must be carried out and women must be encouraged to do so. However, it does not seem fair to us if the person responsible does not have to bear the costs. Was it examined whether those costs could be recovered from the manufacturer? The RIZIV has also lodged a complaint against the manufacturer. What was ultimately the outcome of this case? Was the manufacturer found guilty? Were fines and/or other penalties imposed, in addition to recovering the costs for the investigations and revisions? Finally, and without prejudice to the PIP scandal, if a patient presents himself for plastic surgery, is it true that a large proportion of the costs are covered by health insurance? I am talking about hospitalization and so on, and so a refund is provided for. Do you have any idea how many patients per year and exactly what procedures are involved? What are the costs borne by the sickness insurance scheme each year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u108	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, I remember the PIP scandal in the media and in committee. I was Secretary of State at the time. We then did a great deal of work on the traceability of implants and came up with a strict registration. You ask about the costs incurred by health insurance under the PIP scandal. The overall number of returned consultations of plastic surgeons and the number of implant removals attested under the existing nomenclature codes are known to the services of the RIZIV. As far as consultations are concerned, there is no additional information on the reason for the consultation. The same applies to the operations. The RIZIV knows the number of operations repaid, but the indication is not known in actuarial data, given the privacy. The data for the provision of 251591/251602 indicate how many revisions were globally reimbursed, but the share linked to the PIP problem is not to be found in these figures. In other words, it's about the overall number of revisions, but not really tied to the PIP story. As regards the cost of the PIP prosthesis, in 2012 my predecessor concluded an agreement with the insurance institutions that the word "PIP prosthesis' should be communicated by the hospital via a MyCareNet message if it concerns a hospitalisation for the removal of a PIP prosthesis. The insurance institutions should therefore be able to select the relevant invoices on the basis of that PIP entry in the MyCareNet message in order to isolate all benefits in kind related to the implantation or replacement of the prostheses. However, the area intended for this purpose in the MyCareNet message is used for different purposes and in different contexts, in particular in the orthopaedic context. On 16 February 2012, the RIZIV indeed lodged a complaint with the Brussels investigating judge, with a bourgeois election, for inter alia involuntary beatings and injuries in the case concerning the breast implants produced by the French company PIP. This was done in order to recover the damage directly and indirectly resulting from the corrections and medical follow-up of the defective breast implants for the compulsory health insurance. The RIZIV closely followed the judicial investigation and requested certain investigative measures with regard to the investigating judge to ensure that the investigation is conducted as accurately as possible. During the judicial investigation it appeared that several infringements were committed in the judicial district of Kortrijk, so that by order of 23 August 2012, the case was referred to the competent court of first instance of West Flanders, department of Kortrijk, correctional section. During the course of and independently of that judicial investigation, the Belgian private clinic was declared bankrupt by judgment of the Commercial Court of 27 February 2013, while the French firm was already in bankruptcy by the year 2010. Consequently, due to the aforementioned bankruptcies of both the Belgian private clinic and PIP, only the manager of the Belgian private clinic could be prosecuted for, among other things, involuntary beatings and injuries, the illegal practice of medicine and infringements of the legislation on compulsory health insurance. By judgment of 8 November 2016 of the Court of First Instance, correctional section, West Flanders, department of Kortrijk, the aforementioned manager in criminal matters was sentenced to a main prison sentence of 18 months and a fine of 3 000 euros. In the civil field, he was ordered to pay various amounts to the victims concerned and also to pay to the RIZIV an amount of EUR 13 700 plus interest. An appeal against the judgment was brought by the person concerned, which is still pending and for which no date for a hearing has yet been fixed. In reply to your fourth question, I would like to remind you that plastic surgery is not synonymous with aesthetic surgery. I have here a table showing the number of cases and expenditure per issue of the nomenclature 14,c from 2010 to 2015, distinguishing between university hospitals and other hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u109	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer and I will look at the tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u110	Madam President, Madam Minister, this concerns the penultimate converted written question No. 1357, which has been pending for over a year. The question fits in with discussions that we had at that time in the Benelux Parliament on the issue of border care. In a broader context, it is about care that is not only taken up differently in border regions but also in other countries. My questions are as follows. Firstly, what is the exact procedure for planned and non-planable care? Secondly, what is your view on taking care abroad? Thirdly, how often is medical care provided abroad that is still reimbursed here? For the past five years, can you indicate exactly how many cases it involves for both planned and unplanned care? Fourthly, what budget is spent annually on the reimbursement of medical care provided abroad to citizens of this country? What are the concerns? In which countries, in particular, are these concerns included? What are the reasons for wanting to include concerns abroad? Finally, the planned concerns should be covered by an S2 form. For the past five years, for the total and split by Land, can you indicate how often the form has been submitted and how often it has been refused? Do the mutualities decide on this themselves? Are there any differences between the mutualities?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u111	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, as you know, the problem of cross-border care is not easy. For the planned care abroad, a distinction must be made between planned care in another country of the European Economic Area and Switzerland. The legal basis for the conditions relating to the right to cross-border care, the method of payment of the foreign care providers, the method of reimbursement of the planned medical care and their own contributions, such as the brake fee, may differ in the cost of medical care. However, regardless of the country to which the insured person wishes to go, the procedure is uniform. The insured person must submit an application for prior authorisation for planned care to the medical adviser of his insurance institution. For the countries of the European Economic Union, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the boundaries of medical care are open as a result of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It is now fully integrated into our national legislation as a result of the transposition of Directive 2011/24 in autumn 2013. Under European Union law, Belgian insured persons have the right to travel under certain conditions and without prior authorisation to another country of the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway for planned medical care. It is therefore appropriate for the insured person to contact his insurance institution if he wishes a personalised opinion on his situation. The insurance institution may also provide information on what is and is not permitted, as well as on special conditions for reimbursement, including which medical care requires or does not require prior authorisation; it may also provide information on the amount of reimbursement of the medical care planned abroad or, where appropriate, on the specific rules of application for reimbursement. Then I'll get the unplanned care abroad. We must distinguish between, on the one hand, another country of the European Economic Area and Switzerland or a country to which Belgium is linked through a bilateral agreement on social security, including access to medical care during a temporary stay, and, on the other hand, the other countries of the world, with which we do not have a bilateral agreement and which are not part of the European Economic Area. Again, the legal basis and other conditions may differ. In this case too, the insured person should contact his insurance institution for personalised advice. As regards access to medical care abroad, it is not easy to provide a uniform answer. In other words, foreign legislation only provides for the payment of the brake fee. It provides that the insured person must advance the costs and will be reimbursed on presentation of evidence of the care received. In principle, compensation must be obtained by carrying out the on-the-spot formalities at the foreign insurance institution. If these formalities could not be completed during the stay, a Belgian sickness fund can be reimbursed on return. General explanations on planned and unplanned care, in particular in the countries of the European Economic Area and Switzerland, can also be found on the website of the National Contact Point Cross-border healthcare, www.crossborder healthcare.be - and on the website of the European Commission and the European Commission's app on the European Health Insurance Card. Belgian healthcare is of good quality, also in terms of accessibility, it has a comprehensive delivery package and it provides a good refund. Furthermore, there are also limited waiting times, so it is usually not really interesting for our patients to look elsewhere for care. Care abroad may also involve risks because our country cannot guarantee the quality of care. Movements abroad for, for example, planned care are not without risks, especially when severe complications occur while the patient is far from home. The patient must also ask questions about the follow-up of the treatment once he can still return home, about the appropriateness of the proposed duration of stay with the medical provision in itself and the consequences of the action brought abroad in the event of a dispute which will raise questions about the applicable legislation, the competent judicial authorities or the possibility of an amicable settlement, as well as about the existence of insurance guarantees or other guarantees covering the transactions provided. Some of the above elements are regulated by European Union legislation in the medical care sector in another Member State of the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, for example the right to follow-up treatment in the country of insurance, the possibility of redress for damage caused by medical care, and others. We have a long history in Belgium of cross-border cooperation in the field of health care, particularly in border areas with neighbouring countries. We will continue to do so in the future. Furthermore, as regards cross-border healthcare, I should not like to remind you that Belgium is focusing on the accessibility of the treatment of rare diseases. For example, our country is actively involved in the development of European reference networks and in making specialist treatments that are not available in our country, such as hadron therapy. I can provide you in writing with the amounts reimbursed to Belgium abroad for planned care, on the one hand, and unplanned care, on the other. The precise nature of the care provided abroad cannot be traced. The claims and invoices sent by countries in cross-border care are laid down in international agreements, in accordance with the procedures. For example, Regulations 883/2004 and 987/2009 specify the amount to be reimbursed, which is divided into five headings: medical care, dental care, medicines, hospital care and other benefits in kind such as paramedical care and kinesitherapy. Under the international agreements, in particular Regulations 883/2014 and 987/2009, on the basis of the available data, the planned care and unplanned care in the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 were mainly included in the following three countries. The planned care: Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg in 2014; Germany, France and Luxembourg in 2015; Germany, the Netherlands and France in 2016. The unplanned care for 2014: France, Spain and the Netherlands; for 2015: France, Spain and the Netherlands, for 2016: idem. The reasons for the inclusion of unplanned care abroad are linked, taking into account the legal framework, to the fact that this care becomes suddenly medically necessary during the temporary stay in the country. The inclusion of the planned care is mainly carried out under various schemes which facilitate access to cross-border healthcare in border areas with neighbouring countries. Think of the proximity of a hospital. The German-speaking compatriots live in a very rural area and for them a German hospital is possibly closer. I also have the data from the Special Eurobarometer 425. This shows that one of the main reasons why Belgians go to another EU country for medical treatment is their unavailability in their own country. There is no evidence that medical treatment in non-EU countries would be different. This does not prevent patients from travelling abroad for the intended treatment and then paying them completely themselves, but since there is no refund for that, we cannot provide any data on this either. The data recording for planned care was modified from the reference year 2014. The administration is currently processing the data for the reference year 2017. I will provide you with the most recent data after the end of that exercise and for the years 2014 and 2017. These figures are not available per state. The conditions for issuing a form S2 are either laid down in European legislation or in Belgian legislation. Unless otherwise provided in the legislation, the principle is that the insured's insurance institution's medical adviser decides whether or not to grant an S2 form. The decision to issue a S2 document shall include a medical element. Given the therapeutic freedom of counseling doctors, a difference in treatment of insured persons cannot be ruled out. With a view to the simplest possible interpretation and application of the rules, the RIZIV has also drawn up redirects with guidelines for all insurance institutions, in order to achieve some uniformity. Of course, it always remains the doctor, who can decide on a case-by-case basis to give the document S2.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u112	Thank you for the very comprehensive answer. I'll take another look at it as soon as I get the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u113	Madam Minister, this is the last in a series of converted written questions. This question is my original written question No. 1442, which I converted into an oral question after a year. Folic acid is one of the most important vitamins for women who want to become pregnant or are already pregnant, for the development of a baby. In order to build up a sufficiently high concentration before a woman is pregnant, ideally at the pregnancy wish or at least one month in advance, intake should be started. Madam Secretary, is folic acid reimbursed for women with a pregnancy wish and during pregnancy? With what policy measures do you ensure that women with a pregnancy wish and women take the necessary dose of folic acid during pregnancy? Are these policies also being followed? For the past five years, in total and split by state, can you indicate how many pregnancies were registered and in how many cases folic acid was already taken before pregnancy, how many cases folic acid intake was started during pregnancy and how many percent of pregnancies or births are diagnosed due to a lack of folic acid intake? Can you indicate the total of the DDD's folic acid, if available split according to the lower dose prescribed during the pregnancy wish, and the higher dose recommended during the pregnancy itself? Are there any other conditions in which folic acid is refunded? What other policy precautions during pregnancy, e.g. flu vaccination, are covered by the refund? Can you indicate for the past five years, in total and split by state, and by precautionary measure, for example flu vaccination, how many percent of pregnant women are effectively following them? For women who do not follow precautions such as folic acid intake or flu vaccination, have you examined which target groups, for example, whether or not women with VT status, or, for example, according to age? Do you keep track of how many pregnant women take smoking, alcohol and/or drugs during pregnancy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u114	Mrs Van Camp, there is no refund provided for folic acid intake during pregnancy or for women with a pregnancy wish. I note, by the way, that the low dose of folic acid is registered as a food supplement. In general, food supplements are not reimbursed from national health insurance. Folic acid in high doses or folic acid combined with other ingredients, e.g. iron, has been registered as a medicinal product. Those preparations shall not be reimbursed, regardless of the indication or condition. There is therefore no adequate registration through health insurance. As you yourself point out, the flu vaccine is paid back to pregnant women through the third-payer scheme. Since the flu vaccine is refunded to the different target groups through the third-payer scheme, the health insurance and the patient, registration is not self-evident. When comparing data from different sources, an estimate can only be made. The RIZIV lets me know that such an exercise would be the first and would also take a lot of time. In addition, the vaccine against diphtheria, tetanus and whooping cough, available here under the name Boostrix, is refunded via insurance for women with a child's wish or in case of pregnancy. Prevention and awareness are, as you know, powers of the Länder. They also provide free Boostrix vaccines for pregnant women. So I can't provide you with that information. You'll have to ask your colleagues for it. Other preventive measures or awareness campaigns are also the responsibility of the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u115	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u116	Madam President, Madam Minister, in the countries around us, we are already working on following up on signs that bear the TBE virus. In Belgium the CODA follows the tick contamination in animals. However, as far as I know, the advance of this tick disease in humans is not being followed in Belgium. Do you see in this a task for the WIV or for any other body under your jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u117	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, human sign encephalitis has been followed up by Sciensano, formerly the Scientific Institute for Public Health, since 2012, on the basis of the number of cases reported by the national reference centre responsible for the diagnosis of the disease in Belgium. Since October 2015, it has been the NRC Arboviruses of the Institute of Tropical Medicine and previously it was the department of Viral Diseases of the WIV. To date no indigenous case of sign cephalus has actually been detected in Belgium, i.e. no case of infection in its own country. However, as the majority of infections occur without symptoms or with non-specific flu-like symptoms, the disease may be diagnosed underneath and it cannot be ruled out that there are infections. However, some infections are diagnosed annually in non-vaccinated individuals after travelling abroad where the disease occurs, for example in hikers in Austria. The number of tests requested is increasing progressively, especially after the first cases were reported in the Netherlands in 2016. For example, there were 44 cases in 2012 and 127 cases in 2016. So doctors are thinking about the disease. Research on tick virus is not carried out for the time being because testing a large number of ticks does not guarantee the ability to detect the virus, even in endemic areas. The prevalence of the virus in the tick also does not appear to be related to the incidence of the disease in humans. In 2017, RNA material was collected from around 1,600 characters throughout Belgium. It can be tested for the presence of the sign cephalus virus in the future. So that is an ongoing investigation that might give us more information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u118	Madam President, Minister, your cabinet sent out a press release on 3 November 2016, stating that the nasal sprays would be available for sale in the pharmacy as of 1 January 2017 with corticosteroids. I was told a few months ago that this is not yet the case. Why has this measure not yet been introduced? Is that gonna happen? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u119	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, I think there's been a misunderstanding. Maybe there was a reference to the press article. This measure has indeed entered into force and has been widely discussed since 1 April 2017. Nose sprays with corticosteroids cause less damage than those with vasoconstrictors. They would indeed be available in the pharmacy without prescription, precisely in order to do less damage to the nasal mucosa. This measure was discussed in detail. We have then left the requirement and reimbursement for persons who have to use chronic nasal sprays because of allergic reactions. This measure was the subject of a thorough debate in this committee at the time of the budget negotiations and the discussion of the law on various provisions. This may have been the subject of a press release since then, or some have tweeted about it late, but in fact the measure has been in force since 1 April 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u120	Nathalie Muylle had already transformed her question No 24761 into a written question. As it was listed in point 100, we therefore turn to a round number. We will resume the answers to the questions on 23 May. We've made good progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u121	On Tuesday, 22nd, I have to go to an important meeting in London. It is therefore best that we meet on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-08-54-commissie-ic889x.u122	We're organizing ourselves.
