ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u2	Mrs Pas, you are asking for the floor on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I note with you that we have a new government, the Baraque Michel, which does not have the confidence of this Parliament. When yesterday a large majority in the Chamber asked for the vote of confidence, the Prime Minister announced that he did not intend to do so. However, it has always been so in the past. A government that has not gained Parliament's confidence can only function as a government in current cases. I do not understand why people in this House are simply moving to the order of the day and organising Question Time as if the Baraque-Michiel government were a fully-fledged government. If that is the mentality, we should not even organise elections next year, but we can continue to do so after 26 May, which is as democratic as we are today. Mr President, you will have noticed that my group has not tabled any questions for Question Time. As a democratic party, we cannot let this work be done in this way. We are therefore consistent in taking note of our protests against this undemocratic process. Today, symbolically, you may record our absence from this sitting in protest. Until Tuesday is clear and there is a vote of confidence, we cannot work in a democratic way. The Flemish Interest certainly does not want to participate in this undemocratic circus.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u4	Mrs Pas, I take note of your statement. Mr De Roover has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u5	Mr President, I note that yesterday the Flemish Members listened to me very carefully and followed my good example. We do not ask questions either. That is, of course, without prejudice to the freedom of the other groups to take a stand on this. For the sake of clarity, we do not want the functioning of Parliament as such to be stopped. On the contrary, I think Parliament should work harder than ever. However, I would like to point out that it may be noticed that my group, as announced yesterday, does not put any questions now, because we can normally test the questions in the reply to the government statement. We can see how consistently ministers follow their government statement or not. That is impossible in this case. In the absence of a measure, we have not submitted any questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u6	I also take note of what you have said, Mr De Roover. Mrs Fonck has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u7	Mr President, I have just heard the two colleagues. I don't know if it's the Vlaams Belang following the N-VA or the N-VA following the Vlaams Belang. That being so, Mr President, it is true that the situation is extremely special. On that, we have been very clear and we ask that the government clarify its agenda and the menu of this new government. However, we do not want to abandon the citizens. We therefore continue to ask topical questions as well as questions in committee because we want to remain, first and foremost, the relays of people and find solutions to the problems that arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u8	Mr President, we were clear yesterday. A majority emerged in this Parliament to ask the Prime Minister to come here on Tuesday, to present a declaration of government and to ask for confidence. This remains and has not changed. In the meantime, there is still a government and ministers. Including in day-to-day business, Parliament works and controls the government. At the level of the Ecolo-Groen Group, we intend, whatever the status of the government, to continue this work of monitoring government action and, in this case, to question two ministers with new powers and give them the chance to express here before this Parliament their commitments in the fight against poverty for Mr Peeters and in the management of the reception of refugees for the new minister in charge, Mrs De Block. We are very curious to hear their answers and their commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u9	Mr President, in fact, we are waiting for a reaction from the Prime Minister and the government as a whole, as we have said, to come to clarify both their relations with those who have been turned on or who have withdrawn from themselves, the N-VA, and on the other hand, to know exactly what commitments the Prime Minister is prepared to make, and in so doing also to ask for the confidence of Parliament. However, as I said, we are not going to let the government crisis contaminate Parliament and turn into a parliamentary crisis. Of course, it would be better if the government clarified as soon as possible the situation it is in to tell us where it is going. Nevertheless, there are social emergencies. There are needs that are felt in the population. For this reason, we have put two topical issues on the agenda. One aims to know the position of the government with regard to the actions planned this Friday by major trade union organisations. I would like to point out that, alongside representative democracy, there is also social democracy, which enables social cooperation to find solutions. The other relates to the lack of clear means of justice, for which there is also an urgent need to receive responses. That is why we have maintained these two questions, which does not detract from the scope of the motion tabled by six democratic opposition parties and which led to a majority of parliamentarians last night. I recalled the content and the objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u10	Mr President, yesterday Mrs Wouters and I proposed suspending the examination of the draft legislation. That is one way of effectively forcing the Michael administration to ask for trust. This Chamber rejected that proposal. As far as control of the government is concerned, this is of course something completely different. A government that does not have the confidence, and where there is no doubt that that government has that confidence, should be controlled just more by Parliament than by a government that has gained confidence. The reason for this is that a government without trust has no democratic legitimacy. For this reason, control is now much more important than when the government has gained confidence. My group will therefore always ask questions to that government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u11	Mr President, we have indeed been asked to hold a vote of confidence on Tuesday. A lot of questions have rightly been asked by colleagues. After all, all those Members who are asking themselves questions, checking a government in current cases, is something completely different from controlling a real government, but today they are taking part in the work legitimising the illegal Baraque Michel government, which not only lacks confidence in Parliament but is not supported by the people either. By sitting here and participating in the entire circus, you will legitimize that Baraque-Michel government. We do not wish to participate in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u12	Mrs Pas, I take note of the various statements made by the various groups. I can only say that, of course, we are obliged to complete the agreed agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u13	Colleagues, there's a lot of noise. I would ask you to show some respect for the questions and the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u14	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is almost Christmas, a period of warmth and tolerance. It is also a period of good food and presents under the Christmas tree. For 16% of our countrymen, however, it will be a Christmas period in poverty. They do not know whether there will be a decent meal on the table on Christmas Eve and whether there will be presents for the children under the Christmas tree. Since 2014, poverty has increased slightly in our country. However, certain groups are more likely to share the blows, in particular the unemployed, women, low and medium-skilled, single-parent families and young people between 18 and 24 years of age. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are right in the face of a historically low unemployment rate, but the expenditure on incapacity for work has never been higher than that on unemployment. Never before have so many people had to live on a living wage like today, an increase of as much as 35%. Never had so many people come to the food banks, an increase of 30% in five years. Minister, what gift would you like to give to your fellow countrymen, in particular to the most vulnerable? Will you seize the opportunity, now that you are under the yoke of the N-VA, to finally bring a little more humanity into the government? You stated that you wanted to make other points, albeit within the framework of the administrative agreement. Well, that governance agreement says that you will gradually increase the minimum benefits to the European poverty line. Today, a single person still needs 229 euros. The government has increased benefits here and there by a few percentage points, but what is someone buying in poverty for it, if the gap with the poverty line remains almost the same and if life is becoming more and more expensive? 229 euros is a lot of money. Poverty needs not just a few percent here and there, but action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u15	Mrs Willaert, can you come to your questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u16	Minister, does the government still intend to raise the benefits up to the poverty line, as your party colleague Yves Leterme promised ten years ago, or will you, with the implementation of the labour deal, create new poor by accelerating the collapse of the long-term unemployed into poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u17	Mrs Willaert, people in poverty are a great concern today, just as it has always been and must be tomorrow. We have been in a specific political situation since yesterday's debate until Tuesday's debate. But that does not send a message to people in poverty. In any case, I would like to mention the coalition agreement, which some here want us to act in accordance with that text. It states that minimum social security benefits and social assistance benefits will gradually be increased to the level of the European poverty threshold, giving priority to benefits for persons at the highest risk of poverty. That is quite clear in the coalition agreement and we are sticking to it. In the short term, the means to do so is the welfare envelope. We have increased it over the past few years. The prosperity envelope for 2015-2016 was 627 million euros. It was EUR 676 million for 2017-2018. Furthermore, we have decided until the tax shift and, in accordance with the Summer Agreement, we have allocated EUR 80 million extra on an annual basis to combat poverty. You have quoted figures. I understand your concern that figures remain figures, whereas those figures do not help people in poverty. Nevertheless, I would ask you to include the following figures. The living wage for a family with children has increased by 165 euros per month during this legislative period. That's 13.2 %. The minimum pension for single persons rose by 9.9 %. I'm not saying that's enough. I am not saying that we can close the file with that increase, quite the contrary. It is therefore of great importance that the next 100 % prosperity envelope be awarded. An amount of EUR 354 million is foreseen for 2019 and EUR 716 million from 2020. As usual, we have asked the social partners for advice on how to distribute this money and to put the emphasis on those groups in poverty. But, of course, you would have seen this coming, and the government will not be able to do so if the budget is not approved and if we do not have the opportunity to decide on it soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u18	Minister, I support all the decisive measures that effectively reduce poverty. Mark my words "effective" and "active." We have, by the way, a list of ideas on this subject, which I shall be happy to present to you. Minister, five years ago your government promised to raise the minimum benefits to the level of the European poverty line. This is important for the people in poverty. Ten years ago, this was promised by one of your predecessors. The fact that that promise will not be kept in this legislature is a reason for a government to fall. So stick your neck out, Minister Peeters, a little more. I am sure, now that the 1% party has left the government, that there is a large majority in our hemisphere to support you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u19	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning, lamp manufacturer Philips Lighting in Turnhout announced a loss of 158 jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u20	Colleagues, there is too much noise in the hemisphere. It is impossible for the ministers who have to answer questions to understand the questioners. I therefore ask you to be silent and listen to the questioners.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u21	Thank you, Mr President. As I said, this morning Philips Lighting in Turnhout announced a job loss and it would be 158 jobs. This is more than included in the planned phasing-out scenario that the company has been following for a number of years. The company is struggling with the waning market of traditional lamp production. As a result, there may be more redundant workers than planned in the past and thus more than the planned reduction of 5%. It is very important for the region that these workers be redirected to another job as soon as possible, and that they are also monitored to ensure that the emptying business halls are completed as quickly as possible. A considerable part has already been emptied, but this needs to be completed as well and efficiently as possible, depending on the region and employment. Through the Open Manufacturing Campus on the site there, they try to give new start-ups opportunities. In addition, the tax favor scheme to support the dislocated zones was very welcome. You were in 2014, under the Competitiveness Pact, one of the architects of this scheme. Since the establishment of the dislocated areas of Genk and Turnhout, a great deal has happened in support of new employment in those regions. For this purpose, an additional reduction in charges was provided for those disrupted zones, which would allow any new employee starting in a new business establishment or extending their establishment in those zones to benefit from an additional reduction in charges. This has proved to be a very good measure, because many new jobs have already been created, both in Limburg and in the Kempische region of Turnhout. We continue to fully support this arrangement. However, I would like to ask you, in your capacity as Minister of Work, to examine and support a number of issues relating to this additional job loss. First of all, I would like to ask for consultation with the company and to ask whether it is true that this job loss is indeed greater than the restructuring already announced and to ensure that employees are led to a new job as soon as possible. I would also ask you to consult your Flemish colleague, Minister Muyters, to give even more support and support to the Open Manufacturing Campus in order to offer all the opportunities for the creation of new start-ups. Finally, can you consider whether the reduction of charges for destabilized zones can continue to exist for those zones in the future and whether there might still be a possibility of strengthening the scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, in addition to those who live in poverty and face difficult weeks, the 158 people who have received the notice of resignation today will also face difficult weeks. It was announced that 109 jobs and 49 servants will disappear. We have talked about the Renault Act here several times. The first phase is now under way, the consultation between the management and the trade unions. Let us hope that the number of 158 redundancies will be reduced by the social dialogue that is now under way and that a number of jobs can be maintained. On the 50th anniversary of the collective agreement law this week, I took the opportunity to explicitly call on the social partners to amend the Renault Act, to improve it and to make real progress on our suggestion. I hope that they will do so in the coming days and weeks, because our patience is also at an end when it comes to the amendment of the Renault Act. You are right that Philips Turnhout is in an assisted area, as are other assisted areas in Limburg and in other regions of that country. You ask that the aid zone Turnhout remains valid until 2021 and can be renewed thereafter. This system created 3 600 jobs in Limburg and 1 400 jobs in the assisted area of Antwerp. Your request to follow it very closely is obvious, given the large number of people who are being endorsed here. Together with colleagues from the Flemish Government, we will examine how quickly and how practical things can be. Unfortunately, it's a bad message for these people. We hope to be able not only to reduce the number as quickly as possible, but also to ensure that those involved are given the right guidance and can, as far as possible, be incorporated back into the work circuit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u23	Minister, thank you for your reply and also for ensuring that, in the coming days and weeks, in consultation with the company and the social partners, as many people as possible can either stay on or switch to a new job as soon as possible. I would once again appeal, not only to you but also to the new Minister of Finance in the current government, who is the same government, to continue to support the disruption regime. That is certainly a good arrangement. A targeted reduction in the burden of wages in areas that can really use such a reduction offers prospects and shows results. I therefore call on the members of the government responsible for this matter to continue to give every opportunity to these aid schemes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u24	Minister, admit that it is a bit bizarre: in reply to the previous questions, you quote from the government agreement concluded by four partners, but we have all seen that one partner has left the government and that there is now a minority government. Yet you quote from the coalition agreement. Yesterday we had a long debate to ask the Prime Minister about what the government is actually going to do. The colleagues of the Flemish Interest and the N-VA are stopping today because there is no clarity about this. I understand that, because we are also asking for clarity about the situation, but we are using our right to speak to ask for clarity. I therefore hope that you will be clearer in your reply than the Prime Minister yesterday, because the people on the street are not sitting still either. The minority government has given a press conference on which the climate has been highlighted as one of the themes. You explained that you cannot ignore the signal from the 75 000 people who have arrived on the streets and that you will therefore deal with the dossier. However, for the sp.a it is still not clear what you will or will not do. There will also be thousands of people on the streets tomorrow, Minister, asking for more purchasing power. You read that. As a result of the IPA coming at the end of the year, there is a demand for room to increase wages. It is also asked that minimum wages can go back up to EUR 14 so that people can pay the many increased invoices at the end of the month and people ask for runways, so that older workers have the chance to work at a slower pace at the end of their careers. The Prime Minister was not clear yesterday, but can you tell us today what the minority government is going to do and, above all, to what extent can we assume that you will also do something with the answer you give?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u25	Mrs. Kitir, I'd still like to replicate. Since Mrs Willaert asked me whether I was implementing the coalition agreement, I quoted it too, and I said that we are implementing the coalition agreement on poverty. It is very important that the welfare envelope and the budget are approved so that we can spend that money. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u26	Well, then you should support that, because that is very important for those who are now asking for support. I have given the same answer and I will give it to you. We can show that purchasing power has increased. Leuven's latest report shows an increase of 5.2 %. So we can show that the purchasing power in Belgium has increased. I would like to underline that. However, we are not deaf to the actions of the yellow hoops either, nor are we deaf to what may resound in the streets tomorrow. We are not deaf to this, but we would like to stress that the facts must also be recognised. We've done a tax shift and last year we've had a prosperity envelope. I hope we will also have it next year. We also want to give the interprofessional consultation every opportunity. That is a clear vision. The social partners announced this week that they want to start the social dialogue. They want to see if there is any agreement on the wage standard. As Mr Dewael said, if the social partners do not get out of this wage standard, then this government will take a decision to safeguard purchasing power in the future. So I hope the answer is clear. If you give us the opportunity to do further work on this, we will do the same. If the social partners do not even touch it, purchasing power will come from the core. We will then make a decision there in favour of the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u27	Minister, you are trying to explain with fire and passion what you have already done. You will continue to give the answer of the last four years. There are no problems and all those people who have to go to the food banks because they don't get paid their bills, that's all wrong. There is a study that shows that purchasing power has increased, so there are no problems. You say that we should approve it if we want to support it. That is just what this whole discussion is about. Be clear about what you want to do and come to Parliament to ask for support for it. If the aim is to increase purchasing power, to increase the minimum wage to EUR 14 per hour and to allow the social partners' negotiations on the margin of pay to take place, please come to Parliament and ask for confidence. You will have our trust. But that's what you're afraid of. There is a difference between words and deeds and people are tired of being told something, but you don't have the guts to come here to ask for trust. Colleagues from CD&V, I know it hurts, on the one hand, on the other. Come to Parliament and ask for confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u28	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the previous government, the Michael I government, has taken a lot of fiscal measures, including the tax shift. We can't deny that. We have also seen many times here victory bulletins pass by. Just now Minister Peeters stated that the disposable income has increased. I want to make it clear that this may be the case in part, but that is not the case for everyone. A lot of people are awake because they don't know if they'll make it to the end of the month. One fears a lack of purchasing power. And then we see the phenomenon of the yellow shirt, which we understand very well. After all, the gas station has become a tax office and the energy bill became a tax bill. People are being fooled if we justify the rise in diesel prices, among other things, as a measure of public health and climate. People no longer believe that, because it is only about filling the gap in the budget. Colleagues, yes, the climate is important. We must discuss this here, but we must also dare to ask ourselves who will pay the bill of the climate plan. Companies immediately argue that they do not have to pay this account, as their competitiveness will then deteriorate. But who's gonna pay the bill? Is that the common man? Are those the yellow shirts? Do we have to pay for that? Even worse is that the tax elite in Belgium avoids taxes by means of mailboxes and tax havens. Thanks to journalists, we have been able to get to know all kinds of leaks in recent years. It is clear to us: whoever has his P.O. Box in a tax paradise has to live there. Or do we think of the 6.6 billion-dollar fortune left behind after Albert Frère's death, of which almost nothing flows to the treasury. Do we really have to reward his grandson with a mandate in the National Bank's Regency Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u29	And now the questions, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u30	So I find the rage of the yellow hoops, which find such practices not fair, but quite normal. So my question to you as a new Minister of Finance is how you see fair taxes and how you will achieve them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u31	Thank you for your question, Mrs Wouters. I see mainly two faces today. On the one hand, there is a group of people throwing stones, destroying our public lives and threatening our police. I have absolutely no understanding for that. On the other hand, I see people asking legitimate questions. They don't usually go on the streets, but they wonder how they can ensure that they are rewarded fairly and how our welfare state can be financed. These are very valid questions, and we can only answer them if we work together in the right way over the next few months. The Council of Ministers therefore decided last week not to increase excise duties on diesel and petrol next year. It is a budgetary effort of 90 million. We also want to ensure that those who work are rewarded. Anyone who gets up to work at 5 a.m. has to do more than those who choose not to do so. The budget approved in Parliament's Committee on Finance and the Budget, for example, includes the third stage of the tax shift, which provides for a new purchasing power injection of 1.5 billion. For example, someone with a minimum wage in 2019 will have 1 700 euros net left over compared to the previous government period. There's gonna be a thirteenth month. These measures are, of course, part of the draft budget. In addition, the Council of Ministers decided on a whole series of plans to increase people's purchasing power. We can realise these plans if we work together in Parliament. I am thinking, among other things, of the reduction in the contribution of solidarity to pensions, which could result in a higher pension rate for hundreds of thousands of people. The implementation of the job deal can also increase people's purchasing power. By closing the pension trap, a higher gross pension will always increase purchasing power. A reduction in e-commerce charges is also one of the things that passed through the Council of Ministers. My colleague, Kris Peeters, has also talked about the welfare envelope, which can pay higher pensions and higher benefits. So let us use our common sense in Parliament. It would be a shame if all the measures mentioned were to remain dead letter. It would be a shame if all these measures for more purchasing power for those who want to move forward died silently in Parliament. Let us avoid that, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There's something I need to get off my chest, though. You're talking about people threatening the police and throwing stones. However, you must not put all the yellow shirts on the same footing. A lot of people are in distress. You mentioned the financing of prosperity, which wakes people up. That's right. I wouldn't throw all these people into one pile. (Protests from the Minister) You mentioned two groups: who comes on the street and who doesn't. Not everyone who comes out on the street can just be sided by the wrong side. Excuse me; I cannot agree to that. You also quoted the budget. It is true that a number of good measures have been included in the budget. However, I must also conclude that a whole series of measures are not at all. In my view, this can be the subject of a proper debate again. I still see a tax elite who can escape taxes. In addition, there is also a tax proletariat in Belgium, which has to pay for everything. In that light, I would ask you to think about fair taxes, which we need. Your party has been a majority for 20 years and has been calling for 20 years for taxes to be reduced. As the Minister for Open Economics, you can finally make that tax reduction happen. Then do it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u33	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence, the political situation in Belgium would almost make us forget that the situation in the Congo is deteriorating. There was again a fire in Kinshasa last night of depots sheltering voting machines. The Kabila regime accuses the opposition candidate of being behind this fire without any evidence, in a very farfetched manner. More fundamentally, the four principles that had been set out by High Representative Federica Mogherini when she met with She Okitundu, the Congolese Foreign Minister on 22 November - inclusive, transparent, credible and peaceful elections - are obviously not being applied today. We know that European election observation is not tolerated. The lists of electors still pose very serious concerns and there is no appeasement either. We see it today with the shootings against some candidates, including Martin Fayulu. It is also known that Kabila's regime had accepted this electoral process because it believed that the matter was being dealt with, that its candidate could be elected easily because he had rigged this electoral process, but today we see that candidate Martin Fayulu has a huge enthusiasm. The crowds are moving on his way. He obviously has very important popular support. Therefore, the regime acts as it has always done: it shoots, kills, hurts, represses, in particular this candidate. The question is what we can do to avoid even more chaos, more violence, more repression. I know you didn't stick your arms. I know that Belgium and its diplomacy have sometimes been criticized for being firm in the Congo. But there is a great risk that the situation will degenerate further in this country. Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, what is the current status of your discussions with your European colleagues on the situation in the Congo? What state of support can we provide to the Congolese people, to the electoral process? What discussions can take place in the Security Council on the situation in the Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dallemagne, as you know, I am very attentive to the process which will lead to elections on 23 December. It's been several years. They should have taken place in 2016 and even the Saint-Sylvestre Agreements could not be implemented for elections in 2017. I am particularly concerned about the tightening of campaign conditions. There were serious incidents during the passage by Lubumbashi of the presidential candidate of the Lamuka coalition; he is one of the main opposition candidates: Martin Fayulu. There have been live gunfires. A death is to be deplored. There are also obstacles to freedom of movement and campaigning in a range of localities. You're asking what we can do in this tense climate. I believe that MONUSCO must help shed light on the incidents while trying to protect the population and the electoral process itself. That is why, like the representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Leila Zerrougui, I have called and again solemnly calls for respect for the rights of all candidates and their activists and for respect for international human rights obligations in this campaign. I obviously have a special thought for the victims, dead or injured, present during this process. That is why I call for calm and I am very pleased that many candidates are going in this direction. It was to be hoped that an agreement could be reached on the modalities of the electoral process by 23 December. It is first between Congolese that it must be made. If the elections are to be held properly, they will have to be recognized by the population. All actors must have the same opportunity and the vote must be transparent and credible. It is true that there are many doubts but you will have found that the main opposition candidate is running a campaign. It is therefore not up to us to decide whether to do otherwise. It is the Congolese who must decide. We know how many security tensions there are, including in eastern Congolese. I do not want any further instability to be created. We are also following the situation very closely on the spot. I called on our fellow citizens to be more vigilant as we approach 23 December. They know the rules of prudence to follow. My foreign and defence services will meet again tomorrow, as they do regularly, to take stock of the situation. We must also be vigilant about what can happen in the territory. The main thing would be that these elections - it is true that this is not the trend at the moment - are taking place as correctly as possible and can be recognized as such by the population. This will depend on what will happen in the next few days, not only in Kinshasa but throughout the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u35	Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, first of all I would like to thank you for taking the necessary measures to protect our citizens. It's important. I would also like to share your concern about developments in the Congo. We are far from being able to hope that on 23 December a candidate will be legitimately elected to the Congo. I think it is important to remind the Congolese authorities that all those guilty of crimes against humanity can be prosecuted for these crimes. A series of sanctions are now at work at European Union level. I hope that we will continue in this direction. I believe that the Congolese authorities must know that they cannot shoot their people with impunity, cause chaos, generate even more misery among the citizens, without this being followed up. I would like to recall Dr. Mukwege's words when he received his Nobel Peace Prize on 10 December. He called for the mobilization of the international community: "It is not only the perpetrators of violence who are responsible for their crimes, but also those who decide to look away." I hope that the international community will not turn a blind eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u36	Minister of the Interior, I am asking you about the incredible repression of the yellow vests in Brussels. According to various testimonies, of the 1,000 people who came to protest in the capital, 520 were arrested administratively. Can you confirm to me that 52 per cent of demonstrators are on board by the police? We even exceed the figures of the incredible repression in France! Indeed, in Paris, we are talking about 1,082 arrests of 10,000 demonstrators – 10% of authoritarian boardings carried out by the police. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr. Minister of the Interior, about these testimonies. On the spot, I heard that the persons concerned were "good children", but that they were surrounded by the police before being held outside for two or three hours, in order to piss them off a little bit. Pepper spray was even used against demonstrators who had done nothing. They were moved to Etterbeek in some sort of large federal police stable. I'm asking you to confirm that. Water was flowing. Besides, the toilets were missing. Elderly people were locked up there for two or three hours. Therefore, Minister, my question will be very clear: do you find these actions of the police normal? I would add that a statement from the League of Human Rights... Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u37	Mr Hedebouw has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to quote the League of Human Rights, which recalls in a statement that the right to demonstrate is fundamental and that the authorisation procedure must not lead to its negation. However, that procedure referred to the obligation to have a steward for fifty demonstrators. Which organization can guarantee this in our country? With such a criterion, no one can manifest any more. Secondly, the League quotes the European Court of Human Rights: "Given the importance of the right to demonstrate, which is linked to freedom of expression, peaceful gatherings must be tolerated by the public authorities." Finally, the practice of preventive administrative arrests is illegal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u39	Mr Hedebouw, I ask you to ask your question!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u40	Minister, do you find that the actions of the police on Saturday in Brussels were correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u41	Colleague, as the Prime Minister has indicated, the right to demonstrate, the right to express one's opinion and discontent are guaranteed and must be fully guaranteed. But this must be done with respect for the rule of law and in a peaceful manner. Let me correct the "repression" terminology used in the title of your question. It is excessive and does not correspond at all to reality. In recent times, there have been various protest actions of the movement called "yellow vests" in various cities in the country, in Brussels, Liège, Genk and Oostende. As you know, the management of these events is primarily the responsibility of the local authorities, i.e. the mayors. It is therefore up to that authority to take the necessary measures to ensure the safety of our citizens and respect for public order. In concrete terms, an operational analysis is systematically carried out by the local police, who seek support from the federal police, if necessary. At the level of the Federal Police, special police forces and means are made available to the head of the police service, who has requested them, for example in the cases of Feluy and Brussels. In addition, the management of the Government Crisis Centre is constantly informed of these events and monitors them if necessary. Finally, to the best of my knowledge, the movement of yellow vests has not, as the procedure wishes, submitted an application for authorization to demonstrate to the competent local authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u42	Minister, this is really amazing. You say that the word "repression" is exaggerated but you will grant me that 520 administrative arrests of 1,000 demonstrators is more than 50%! It is no longer a question of looking for breakers, we are in the criminalization of the whole movement. You're telling me that it was decided by a socialist mayor. That's no excuse. I'm sorry someone on the left decided. I know it bothers, but that's how it is. Furthermore, you say here that the application for authorisation has not been submitted. The Human Rights League is very clear in this regard. It is not necessary to criminalize a whole movement because it has not been accepted, because the criteria for applying are strict. I would like to quote from the Ligue des droits de l'homme: "As the Brussels Court of First Instance has established in its case law, we must..."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, may I quote the League of Human Rights? We're nervous here! Mr President, I cannot even quote the League of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Hedebouw speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u45	I repeat: "We must, in principle, unless the profile of a certain danger is asserted, stop people for what they do and not for what they are." It's very important. This is a very clear case-law decided by the Brussels Court of First Instance. In this case, people were arrested for what they were and not for what they were doing. It's totally undemocratic. This is not how you will break the movement of the yellow vests. The movement will continue, I guarantee you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u46	Mr. Chair, Minister, first of all, I find that the situation of yellow vests and our police officers requires something other than slogans and phrases thrown into the air. If the purpose of the interventions is to divide even more and to make clans between the police and the yellow vests, it really makes no sense. The security situation we are experiencing is completely new, Minister. Indeed, a 48-hour strike was launched by the police. This has not happened in several years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u47	Excuse me, Mrs. Matz, I'm interrupting you. Mr Laaouej has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u48	Mr President, I ask you to take an attitude towards what we see. I expect, of course, from you the most appropriate reaction in accordance with our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u49	It's forbidden!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u50	The Rules of Procedure state that this is indeed not permitted. I would ask colleagues to remove the posters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u51	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, now we have dishonored Mrs Matz. I propose that Mrs Matz take up her question from the beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u53	When I started my speech, Mr President, I said that I thought that the situation we were experiencing was unprecedented in many respects, and that it called for more dignity and respect for the problems that our fellow citizens, as well as the security forces, are experiencing. The demonstration that has just been made is, in my opinion, very eloquent about the lack of consideration that some elected officials have for the population. Forty-eight hours of strike work has been a new situation for several years. Our police services went on strike for 48 hours in Liège, Charleroi and Brussels. They are almost everywhere on strike and this one is followed. They have been desperately trying for months to be heard about their working conditions, staff shortages, violence and targeted attacks against them. They're sick of it. For months they have been forced to bear the consequences of a government policy that imposes a budgetary restriction on them. The shortage of police personnel is staggering: there are 4,000 units. If they are missing today, it is because the government has drastically reduced the budgetary means - in 2015 in particular - that they fail to catch up. Mr Minister, I know that you met them yesterday during a consultation. I would like you to be very clear about the objectives you intend to give to the security and listening policy you intend to give them. For months, we have been told that this situation will be resolved. Nothing is! You really now feel an increasingly perceptible ras-le-bol since 48 hours of strike is not nothing! In the meantime, the core missions of the police areas cannot be carried out. Some key missions have been added. With the end-of-year celebrations approaching and the attack on the Christmas market in Strasbourg, will any further arrangements be made? If so, how will you take them in view of the working conditions in which police officers operate?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u54	Mr. President, Minister, our police officers started a 48-hour strike this morning. The first 24 hours are devoted to demands on the common union front that are strictly police. The reasons for dissatisfaction include overwork, shortage of staff, and increasing violence against them as well. These concerns, ladies and gentlemen, are perfectly legitimate. It was natural that the government agreement made public safety a priority. Our police and security services are in fact required to carry out missions under difficult circumstances, regardless of the terrorist context we have been facing since 2014. If, after the new Islamist terrorist attack in Strasbourg, the OCAM maintains the level of threat at 2, this shows that we must remain vigilant for the protection of our fellow citizens and our police officers. This context, as well as the constant obligation of our police officers to adapt to new forms of crime and crime, add to their workload. These are legitimate concerns, and we hear them. We hear them and it would be wrong to think that the federal government is not aware of the difficulties encountered on the ground. On the contrary, the government's action, since the beginning of the legislature, has sought to provide answers, particularly with regard to recruitment. Thus, a 29-year-old policeman spoke in the press this morning, saying: "We have difficulties, but we know that efforts are being made to recruit." Should we continue? It's obvious. Among your first initiatives, you have met with the unions – I would like to congratulate you. Minister, what concerns were they discussed, were they put on the table at this meeting you had yesterday with the unions? What concrete measures have been envisaged or will be taken? And, in another way, in the light of what happened two days ago in Strasbourg, are we going to take additional measures in Belgium to support local police at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u55	Minister, I would like to begin by congratulating you on your appointment as Minister of the Interior during this rather turbulent period. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today three of the four police unions strike. They once again protest about various issues, such as the shortage of staff, the workload, the reform of sick days, the increase in retirement age, the violence against police officers. Minister, you are new to the department, and I am also new to this matter. I've been trying to work my way in. After all, the problems do not date from yesterday. We know that, compared to the agreed standard, there are 3 700 police officers too short on the ground, which amounts to an understaff in three quarters of the police zones. That is why the government has set up the core tasks plan. It says what a police officer should do and which cases can be better outsourced. In this way, they can be relieved of smaller tasks, which are not really their core business, and focus on the real police work. However, this results in too few results in the field. In addition, recruitment and training are difficult and too slow. If I am well informed, last year there was an audit of the recruitment procedure. Perhaps something useful has emerged from this, which can improve the procedure in the future. These problems will have to be tackled at the root of the problem in order to reduce workload and reduce deficits. You will have our full support for this. Minister, you have already received the unions for consultation. What are the results of this consultation? Will you step up on the roll-out of the core tasks plan? Are you thinking of any other measures to meet the aspirations of the strikers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u56	Mr De Crom, I congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u57	Mijnheer de voorzitter, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pivin, mevrouw De Crom, Mrs Matz, the notice of strike given by the three representative trade union organisations therefore has a number of demands, as you all know. Some are not negotiated at the police level, such as pension reform, and all those directly related to the current strike notice. The first meeting, mentioned by all colleagues, was not a formal union negotiation, but an informal meeting. I listened to the demands. I tried to give some answers already. And I also talked about several common challenges, between the police themselves and the staff. Finally, we focused on three very difficult points. The first concerns staff. Firstly, the status of staff, the recruitment of long-term staff, the transfer of staff to the areas where there is a shortage and the problem of end-of-life. Secondly, the issue of additional costs, which to date have not been reimbursed by INAMI. This discussion was also conducted in a clear and honest manner. I will try to find a way to cover all the costs that are not covered by the health insurance. Thirdly, we have alluded to the assaults of police officers, whether verbal or physical. The aggression experienced by many police officers is consistent with what other people experience in authority. In this area, too, I have proposed a joint consultation and a number of proposals. My predecessor has already started a number of things. What has not yet been completed is a constructive dialogue and a successful conclusion within the existing means. Once again, I will do what is necessary to achieve the KB's reimbursement of the medical costs resulting from serious acts of violence against the police. In this context, the last budgetary steps have already been taken, including in the area of administrative control. The implementation of the sectoral agreement will soon take shape and the necessary resources will be made available. In conclusion, I understand that for the other statutory reforms announced, a fundamental reflection is needed in order to take account of the specificities, as Mr Pivin has said, of the police profession. In this context, and given my very recent assumption of office as Minister of Security and Home Affairs, I asked the trade unions to give me a little more time to prepare these dossiers. I will then come as soon as possible with concrete proposals which, I hope, will answer the questions and suggestions I have received. I am convinced that, following yesterday's interview and with those responsible in the police, we will be able to cope with a great deal of the greed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u58	Minister, thank you for these answers, mainly for the answer to the question of reimbursement of costs. This is an important issue. I realize that you have just assumed your duties, but these claims have existed for months; they have been submitted to your government. We have the impression that we skate, we don't listen, we don't hear, especially when it comes to recruitment. Four thousand police units are missing in our country. The federal police are so short-sighted that they have to rely on local police. As a mayor, I'm sure you're not insensitive to this problem. Core missions at the local level can no longer be provided optimally. I'm asking you more than a break on recruitment and working conditions. The police are exhausted. They are no longer able to take their sick days or days off. It takes a very strong gesture. It has to go faster. I hear you are taking up your duties, I repeat, but it is the policy that your government has been pursuing for months that has failed in this area. And today, you are unable to respond to the growing demands. Minister, agree to make a real effort on recruitment and working conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u59	Minister, thank you for the clarification you have given us. You have taken up your duties under extremely special circumstances. The legislative programme still foresees many measures which must be implemented in the coming months to alleviate the administrative work of police officers, to strengthen their training, to improve recruitment procedures. On behalf of the MR Group, I ask you to continue on foot the government's action to respond to the legitimate concerns and aspirations of our police officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand very well that only a limited number of things can be achieved in the remaining months. However, precisely because it is only a few months from now, we urge you to take as much as possible from the period that you have left. The common agreement on aggression, which you set out as an example, is very important. Aggression is absolutely unacceptable. We therefore appreciate that you are putting an important accent there. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u61	Mr President, Mr Minister, after the judges, lawyers, clerks and prison staff, it is the turn of the Public Prosecutor's Office to express its satisfaction before a court that continues to deteriorate. To put it simply, we have been denouncing the situation of recounting our judicial system for four years. Today, it is with one voice that the prosecutors general, the federal prosecutor, the king's prosecutors and the labour auditorate – gathered at the courthouse in Namur – remind you of the state of disrepair of the judicial buildings as well as the deplorable working conditions and even the inability of the staff to carry out their work. To answer this umpteenth call, which could have been avoided if you had made these questions a priority in the last four years, you are proposing short-term measuring instruments, facade work. Minister, a budget of $100 million would be needed to remedy the situation. What amount do you intend to commit then? You also promised an inventory of the dilapidated judicial buildings. Given that we are at the end of the legislature, and given the political situation, is this not an announcement effect? In addition, you indicated that Tournai, Mons, Namur and – perhaps – Verviers would be a priority in the short term. What about the other palaces where the ceilings collapsed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u62	Mr President, Mrs Özen, as you are aware, I have just received the award from the Régie des Bâtiments, to succeed Mr Jambon. Maybe it was an opportunity to organize a state of affairs. I've been dealing with this in the last few days with the administration of the Régie. The ad effect is something I can always be blamed for, but generally I try to act – you don't ignore it either. That's why I commissioned my administration to develop a masterplan, in the first place for the courthouses in Wallonia. This morning, I took part in a meeting with the Régie and the Poelaert Foundation in order to respect a timing scheduled until 2030 for the courthouse in Brussels, a construction site. As far as Namur is concerned, I hope we will be able to regain possession of the place before or just after Christmas. You know that this palace was planned in 2005 and that due to all kinds of permits and problems with the National Institute of Accounts, and to private-public cooperation, it was difficult to implement these plans, so that it was forgotten to renovate the building in the meantime. I don't know. I admit it. I can only admit it on behalf of the previous government and governments, on the other hand. We will therefore resume possession of the premises just before or after Christmas and we will try to start the work after the final opinion of the National Institute of Accounts in 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u63	Minister, it looks like you've been finding out what's been defied for more than four years. It has been four years, Minister, that your policy and the consequence of your policy of austerity and disinvestment in justice in general have been denounced. The disinvestment, Minister, is you! Today, you are not asked to repaint the walls or plug the holes. It's not rafistolage you're being asked for. You are asked to free up the means for justice to function, the means for this justice to exist – at last –. The rule of law must be preserved, Minister. It is your responsibility to safeguard a vital public service for the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u64	Mr. President, Minister, the twentieth century has experienced a lot of disease. The only one that remains incurable is anti-Semitism. These were the words spoken a few days ago by the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans. Indeed, a few days ago, the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights published a report revealing that 85% of European Jews feel that anti-Semitism has increased over the past five years. In Belgium, the percentage is even worse since it is more than 90%. More than that, four out of ten Jews in Europe are planning to leave the European Union and this represents 42% in Belgium. These figures are extremely worrying. The Agency therefore calls on the Member States to step up their efforts to combat this phenomenon. Moreover, in many European countries there is the rise of extreme straightness and populism which obviously reinforces this feeling. In Hungary, for example, 42% of Hungarians consider that Jews have too much economic power, which reminds us of certain periods of the inter-war period. In Belgium, a party which is present in Parliament with three Members, does not hesitate, at its congresses, to sell nostalgic literature. Minister, what is your analysis of this report? More specifically, do you see any change in the situation with regard to the statistics in Belgium that you have at your disposal? As regards our arsenal to combat anti-Semitism, do you think it is sufficient to date? In concrete terms, do you consider it appropriate to take further measures to supplement the many measures already taken in Belgium in recent years and what could be these provisions? Finally, do you believe that zero tolerance in the matter advocated in our country is a reality in fact? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u65	Mr Flahaux, in fact, the figures that you have drawn up in the report are worrying, particularly since 90% of those interviewed believe that anti-Semitism has increased in the last five years. Belgian legislation is, in my view, at the point. As you know, it is very broad and very repressive in relation to offences related to racism and discrimination. Thus, anti-Semitism and racism are aggravating circumstances under our Penal Code. The criminal law was supplemented by the Act of 10 May 2007, but it also established the Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism (UNIA) to ensure permanent monitoring of signs of racism. It should also be recalled that any incitement to commit acts of violence against the Jewish community is punishable by anti-racism law and may also be subject to higher rates of punishment for incitement to terrorism. In addition, there are decrees issued by federated entities aimed specifically at combating racism, xenophobia and discrimination. With this arsenal, I think I can say that our country is in compliance with European directives. We have a circular COL 13/2013 from the Public Prosecutor's Office which deals with research and prosecution policy on discrimination and hate crimes, which will be evaluated in early 2019. In addition, on 7 December, we acceded to a declaration by the Internal Council and Justice of the European Community to join the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance. We are therefore entering the conditions in terms of combating racism and anti-Semitism. But it is true that the figures are worrying. I do not know whether this is the only disease we inherited from the 20th century, but I agree, in any case, that it is a disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u66	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. Like you, I believe that Belgium must remain a country where every community must feel welcomed and protected. We must allow all the minorities in our territory to flourish. I know that efforts have already been made to achieve this, but this report shows that we must remain more than attentive. I am also pleased that our sister assembly, the Senate, has received UNIA this Monday and that a plenary meeting on anti-Semitism will take place tomorrow. It is also important that in the current circumstances, the new Speaker of the Senate was a hidden child during the last war. This shows that we attach all the necessary importance to this. Indeed, I do not wish that one day the Jewish community, in our country with the black yellow red flag, should once again wear the yellow star. That would be terribly pitiful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u67	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the media today mention the publication of researcher Marion Van San, who, on behalf of Itinera Institute, questions the efficiency of the deradicalisation programmes. It is now a public secret for us that the problem of radicalism in prisons deserves special attention. I remember that prison directors, guards, welfare workers and even the deradicalisation officials are very concerned about what happens in prisons and about the effects when the prisoners are released. You may know better than anyone that the coming weeks and months are quite a few people who have been convicted under terrorism legislation at the end of their sentence and released. Mr Minister, what this means today is in the region of Londerzeel, where there is a lot of unrest as a result of the release of Jean-Louis Denis, "le soumis', who was condemned for being very active in recruiting young vulnerable people to Syria. That creates a lot of unrest. My fellow mayor Mrs Sminate, chairman of the deradicalisation committee in the Flemish Parliament, is not at all reassured. She must now deal with this locally and be followed by the police. Minister, we have debated in this House in the past the posting of people convicted of terrorism. I think that this example is once again an important argument for regulating this posting. We are in a special period, with a lot of room for Parliament. How quickly can we regulate this legislation so that people who have been released after serving their sentence on terrorism can also be structurally followed by our security services?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u68	Mr Bonte, let me first say that the person concerned was not eligible for a posting because the facts he committed did not lend himself to this under the existing Criminal Code. Of course, we can never provide anyone with a new measure retroactively. We will always have to take that into account if we are to introduce a new regime of posting. We cannot apply this to people who are already in prison, and that is a very real problem. Furthermore, I am not opposed to the Commission's proposal to extend the posting to offences with lighter penalties, such as terrorism. We can do this within the framework of the new Criminal Code, which comes back from the Council of State, but we can also, as you propose, consider in Parliament and the government a measure of special posting in the event of terrorism, administrative or judicial. This could be an administrative measure, as in Germany and France, or a judicial measure, as in the Netherlands. Personally, I have always been the administrative slope because I think criminal law will end at the end of the sentence. You spoke of the need to succeed these people, but of course it is not the case that the person concerned, who, if I am not mistaken, is native, is not being followed now. He was in the DeRadex wing: they tried to deradicalize him. We all know that it is not easy to change a person's faith. That's why I'm saying he's native, which is all the more evidence that it's not easy. You know that State Security has been informed, that the OCAD has sent out a note, that the local police and the mayor have been notified and that the LTF (Local Task Force) will succeed him. This is one of the first cases in which we can prove that the succession after the end of the sentence is effective. Let us try that, but I am fully prepared to engage in the debate on the extension of posting as a criminal measure or on an administrative measure after the end of the sentence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u69	Minister, I have a few comments to make. First and foremost, the problem of radicalism in prisons should lead to much more decisive action in terms of efforts, opportunities and guidance in the prisons themselves. Secondly, I do not know whether you have read what the person concerned said at the time he left Ittre prison, namely that he has become much more convinced. Actually, that's what it came down to. After the long list I just gave of people who testify that there may be a problem in prisons and that the problem also arises, the prisoners themselves now say it. Minister, I did not put a question to Professor Geens, who effectively refers to the Criminal Code, which effectively refers to the problem of non-retroactive business. I put a question to the politician Geens, namely to regulate the Criminal Code. If it's there, you don't think it should be adjusted. It is a pity that Mr Dewael is not here. After a long debate, a consensus was reached in this Parliament to amend the Criminal Code in order to regulate the posting. So I am not arguing for a new debate. I am simply arguing for a minister who is also trying to take responsibility in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u70	Mr Janssens, your question should have been added to Mrs Özen's. I apologise for this, but we often have to rely on a sentence and that is why a mistake was made here. You certainly have the right to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u71	Mr President, I would like to start in this way myself, but I will simply ask my question. Mr. Secretary, at the beginning of this week, the College of Attorneys-General called the alarm again. It made it clear that most of the courthouses are out of date. In fact, according to the College, some of them are unhealthy, unhealthy and even dangerous. In your reply, you pointed out with your familiar calm determination that a lot has already been done in prisons and internment institutions. The poor state of the buildings of Justice is an old very. In the meantime, it has already come to this point that a courthouse has now been closed because of the deplorable state in which it is located. The report of the social inspection was not gentle and speaks volumes. There are faults in the electrical installations, there is water seeping and there is no fire alarm anywhere. In addition, there is ammunition in the building and there may be a risk of explosion. Apparently there are also problems with the stability of the building. Specifically in connection with the building in Namur, you stated that you were dealing with a vicious circle. A new building was planned in 2005. It was then decided not to renovate the old building because of the prospect of a new building. However, when the plan was almost finished in 2014, it was not possible to start because there were new standards. Meanwhile, the old building has still not been renovated. Mr Minister, it is of course a good thing to invest in improving the state of prison infrastructure and the FPCs. However, this does not mean that buildings in which courts, courts and parquets have to be dealt with urgently. People who work there are all entitled to a safe and healthy working environment, without having to fear that one day the ceiling will literally fall on their heads. I shall then come to my specific questions. First of all, how bad is the current situation? How will you deal with them in concrete terms? Secondly, which projects are already in the scaffolding, literally and figuratively? Thirdly, will there finally be a new building in Namur? If so, when? Or will there still be renovation? Fourthly, how much budget do you need to modernise all the courthouses? How much budget was actually released?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u72	Mr Janssens, if the only problem is that we need to invest more budget, this could be remedied in the short term with a concrete measure. The Regie currently has a staff of 730 on a 1 000 basis. So there are 270 staff too few. In addition, many projects, such as those in Namur, are overtaken by new standards, because they take far too long on planning and obtaining building and environmental permits. We really keep each other in a stranglehold of administrative regulation in our country. At the time when a particular project becomes possible, Eurostat, for example in Namur, says that DBFM projects will now only be allowed to be rented out for 15 years. Furthermore, it must be proved that the building, a court building, can be sold for other purposes. Those standards are very recent and have led to another adaptation of the project. In short, I believe that the situation in the Flemish capitals is on average viable. You can't get mad when I say that. I believe that the situation in a number of Walloon capitals is serious, I mention Namur. We can reconvene the building in Namur by the end of this year, but it is a very provisional situation, which should be remediated very quickly by finishing the new building. If we start building, we're gonna be fast as hell. The difficulty is that it sometimes takes far too long before we can start building.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Now that you are also responsible for the Buildings Regie, as you make clear, perhaps you should monitor progress so that justice finally gets what it is entitled to, namely modern buildings with optimum working conditions for the staff and safe access for the citizens who want to appeal to Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u74	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on my first topical question before this Parliament, I would like to talk to you about your new portfolio on asylum and migration. For, in these somewhat surreal political times, the government's unrest has paradoxically led to the hope that you will bring humanity back and respect for human rights in asylum policies. What are we talking about in terms of current affairs? A few hours after you discovered that you would be our new Minister at the Asylum and Migration, you announced that you would want to break with your predecessor's policy and, in the meantime, announced your intention to abolish the asylum quotas at the Foreign Office. But what do we learn two days later? It would seem that you are no longer removing these quotas, that you are gradually revising them and, more worrying to me, that you do not want to pursue another policy. Minister, the hope is likely to fall back and the fuzziness is a bit general. If in the last few days, political blur is a bit the rule of the game, you will agree that it is not a matter of making it a habit. So let me ask you a few clear and direct questions. In concrete terms, what are you going to do to reintroduce humanity and serenity in this department? Will you stop locking up children? Will you eliminate the backlog of refugee claims by the end of the week, as requested by the Foreign Office in particular? Are you going to take your responsibilities in welcoming migrants to Maximilian Park? Will you support the measures requested by the citizen platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u75	Congratulations, dear colleague, on your Mayden speech!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u76	Mrs Watershoot, I congratulate you on your swearing-in which I think the timing is quite interesting. Thank you for asking this question because it allows me to clarify some things once again. Indeed, I feel rejuvenated by seven years because I am again in charge of the Asylum and Migration! I have never asked to receive these skills, but I have decided to take on my responsibilities. In this context, I will do my duty, that is, I will implement the government agreement reached in 2014. You will find the answer to all your questions. I will also ensure that the law is strictly enforced because it is the task of a minister. You all know that I have always pursued a strict but fair policy and I intend to continue on this path. This means that those who have rights must be able to assert them, but those who face a refusal must return. As soon as applications are registered, it will be possible to determine who is entitled or who is not entitled to asylum as soon as possible. I am not looking for polemics, but, like you, I see that for some time there has been a problem with reception. I want to be able to solve it as quickly as possible, but it cannot be done today or tomorrow. It can't be done in the blink of an eye. This solution will also consist of several elements. As in the past, I will take measures to limit the influx and to combat abuses. My administrations and I are working hard on the ground. We are trying to find structural solutions quickly. In the meantime, I asked them to do their best in these difficult circumstances. They do, and I thank them for that. This is a difficult skill. We need to find solutions to problems. It is necessary to be pragmatic, to combat abuses but also to take measures to avoid tragedies at the Petit-Château. I'll be criticized on all sides, but I'm used to it. It's not the first time I've been here and I feel great about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u77	Madam Minister, where you're used to, I don't have it. Maybe it's naivety? I was hoping for specific answers to my clear questions. I asked you if you were going to remove the quotas. Regarding the detention of minors, I asked you if you were going to put an end to this shame. I asked you about your intentions with regard to welcoming migrants to Maximilian Park and the measures requested by the citizen platform? I may have misheard, but I didn't hear anything. Yet, in my view - and I think I'm not alone - these are measures that you could take quickly. They would be strong and show a break with your predecessor. I understand that it is for you to implement the 2014 government agreement. This sheds further light on the debates, on the nature of the government that we have before us today. That being said, we expect a real and immediate change, in line with the United Nations Pact on Migration, which our country has adopted, in response to the actions of thousands of committed, solidarity citizens, in response to the actions of all the associations that have palliated the government's lack of access to migrants. I would misunderstand, we would misunderstand, that you are pursuing a policy that has led, in your own words, to an inhumane and chaotic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u78	Mr President, I am speaking to the Minister for Pensions of an ultra-minoritarian government, without legitimacy until he has received the confidence of Parliament. We did not wait for this crisis caused by Charles Michel, but once again I want to denounce the illegitimate nature of the social policies that you have carried out. Today, our police officers start 48 hours of strike, and they are particularly worried about their pensions. Tomorrow, the whole social movement will be on the street. The population does not want to be forced to work until the age of 67. In 2015, you told us: "Don't worry. There will be exceptions for arduous trades." Today, three years later, we come to the end of the legislature - and perhaps to the end - and there is still nothing. With an ultra-minoritarian government, there is a great risk that you will no longer know how to move forward on anything. Minister, what about the problem of penitibility? Now that the N-VA is no longer in your government, will you finally listen to the workers? Will you get out of your closed envelope? How and within what time frame will you recognize the hard work of these workers? You never know, are you finally going back to a pension at age 65?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, if I am well informed, tomorrow's trade union actions will focus not only on the problem of penitibility, but also on the purchasing power of pensioners. This is important to them and to the general population. With regard to the failure of the negotiations relating to penitibility, I take note of the fact that the unions are demonstrating against the fact that they have not reached agreement with the employers on the criteria of penitibility applicable to the private sector. So they are demonstrating against their own failure, in a way. Indeed, the government had entrusted the social partners with the search for an agreement. It is precisely because the discussions between the social partners were a failure that the conciliators now propose the continuation of the discussions within the framework of a tripartite consultation in which the government would be involved. This consultation can therefore begin. With regard to the question of the purchasing power of pensioners, I would point out that, unlike other European countries, we have not, in Belgium, reduced the amount of pensions, on the contrary. I say "unlike most European countries". You know that the government has just taken the decision on a fifth increase in minimum pensions since the beginning of this legislature. The amount of minimum pensions will have increased by EUR 130 per month for employees and by almost EUR 200 per month for self-employed persons. As noted by the Study Committee on Ageing in its July 2018 report, the importance of these increases allows all beneficiaries of a minimum isolated pension, including self-employed persons, to benefit from income above the poverty line. The same applies to the average pensions which increased during this term of office by 90 euros per month for employees and 120 euros per month for salaried workers. Of course the work is not done. You give me the opportunity to appeal to everyone to make further progress, in particular in the area of penitence with a tripartite negotiation, but also to raise the thresholds applicable to solidarity contributions, to increase the minimum pension and to use the Well-being envelope to enable, again, an increase in the purchasing power of pensioners. This is the meaning of the action taken in this government by assuming, it is true, that it is necessary to work a little longer to ensure the social and financial sustainability of our pension system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u80	Mr Minister, I would be tempted to say, first of all: more ironically against the unions with a total lack of empathy for the citizens and disconnected from the reality of the citizens! You say you haven't reduced your pensions. But your actions will significantly reduce future pensions and, in particular, those of the public service! It's a reality. Minister, if you want confidence, ours here in Parliament and that of the population, come back to the pension at age 65 as provided for in your programme! Minister, given the context of a growing social movement, given the fact that you no longer have a parliamentary majority, given the fact that consultation is in a deadlock – you have just recalled this – you have two options: either you are deaf to criticism (as is often the case), or you are listening to the public and you are returning to a reform favourable to the citizen. Minister, make the right choice!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u81	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u82	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Philippe Goffin, Sophie De Wit, Raf Terwingen, Carina Van Cauter, Laurette Onkelinx, Meryame Kitir, Stefaan Van Hecke, Christian Brotcorne, Gautier Calomne.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u83	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Özlem Özen, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here is an example of a bill that has received the support of all the groups represented in the Committee on Justice. This text is only a translation of a recommendation that had been made following the attacks. This law provides a legal basis for a royal decree allowing for the statutory upgrading of the functions of religious or moral assistance in prisons. I thank my colleagues for supporting this text, which was amended by Mr. Van Hecke.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u85	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u86	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3380/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3380/4) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the basic law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the prison administration and the legal status of prisoners". The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u87	Art. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 2 – Barbara Pas (3380/5) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Conclusion of the discussion of the articles: Reserved: the vote on the amendment and Rule 2. Held: the vote on the amendment and Article 2. Article adopted by article: Article 1. Adopted article by article: Article 1. ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and article that has been retained and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u88	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 243: Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Leen Dierick, Servais Verherstraeten - 506: Catherine Fonck, Francis Delpérée, Vanessa Matz, Christian Brotcorne - 801: Peter Vanvelthoven, Karin Jiroflée, Maya Detiège - 957: Carina Van Cauter
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Ms Özlem Özen and Mr Gilles Foret, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u90	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the initiatives and legislative proposals on lifeless children already go through several legislative hours. In 2014, this theme was first included in the government agreement of the previous government. This new legislation on the name and registration of the lifeless born child gives us hope, especially after decades of asking for humanisation in relation to parents facing such a loss. Even now, however, it did not seem obvious to come to an agreement. We already held hearings at the beginning of the legislative period, in 2014 and 2015, and last summer we finally reached a compromise. The aim of the present draft is to maintain the existing rules on compulsory registration from 180 days of pregnancy, but also to allow parents to give the child a family name. And that's new. Moreover, a completely new possibility is created, namely that the child can also be given a first name from 140 days of pregnancy. That's not an obligation, but it's a possibility. That is a step in the right direction, but as in the committee and through other channels we repeat that we have never put it under the table that it should have gone ahead for us. We welcome the extension of the existing regime, which has long been in demand, but we do not believe that the link between the declaration and its viability is correct. The limit of 140 days therefore feels arbitrary. For our group, it is not the viability that counts, but the grief that the parents suffer. Helping to process the loss of a stillborn child and the support during the grieving process is the main concern for us. In short, the duration of pregnancy is subordinate to the grief of the parents. Parents' grief does not begin on 180 days or 140 days. Parents are looking forward to the new life that will complete their families long before pregnancy. At that time, there is nothing worse than the unexpected termination of pregnancy or the birth of a lifeless child. Being struck by such grief is unreal. The sadness of that loss will forever get a place within that family, within that family. For us, as I said, the grieving process is central. One parent may need grief, while another parent may need it less. We must give maximum support to parents who need it; that is our job. In this respect, freedom of choice remains essential. The free choice, from 140 days, is therefore included in the text before us. A grieving process is an individual process and we must leave it to the people to make their own choices. On the positive side, a transitional period is envisaged to cover all parents who have ever suffered such a loss. We will support the draft law as it stands. However, you have understood that we hope that the regulation can be extended at a later stage. However, we have given our word, and in view of the fact that we are holding a serene debate, we certainly do not wish to throw any light on this issue today. I would like to conclude with a quote by Mrs Marleen Vertommen, who has been committed to the non-profit association with Empty Hands for years: "A stillborn child has no life, but forever has a life that can be respected and honored by official recognition."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, so many women and men have experienced this suffering: a pregnancy that suddenly breaks down, a hope that flies away. When the child is desired, the shock is harsh, difficult to cope with. You feel empty, you feel distraught. What to do? What to do in the face of this cruelty of destiny? The answer is simple: we do what we can. Each one in his own way, with his weapons, with family helpers, friendly, but also with the extraordinary assistance of most medical teams - doctors, nurses, psychologists, social workers. These professionals extend their hand, support the mother, accompany the couple in the process of mourning. For some, it will be photos, footprints or handprints, souvenirs that will be offered. It'll be the Star Cemetery. For others, the traces only accentuate the feeling of failure. Parents need psychological support first and foremost in order to recover in a different way. But who are we here to codify this pain? This bill organizes the official recognition of an unviable fetus and its registration in a civil registry. A fetus of a few weeks will become a child by the magic of a law. But what are we really looking for? Helping a bereaved family or making regressive ideology? This project doesn't happen at any time. It is coupled with the decisions that have been taken on the recriminalization of abortion. The Women's Council speaks of a "trilogy funest". February 2017: Prenatal recognition of the unborn child by an unmarried parent from the beginning of pregnancy; 15 October 2018: Inadmissible retention of prison sentences for an IVG of more than 12 weeks. In this connection, we will recall the statements of Minister Geens to the newspaper La Libre Belgique: "I am hit humanely by abortion." It's all said. Today, the third act: the possible recognition of a status for an unviable foetus from the 140th day after conception. Confusion is created between the conception of an embryo and the birth of a child. Recognizing an embryonic status, even in a limited way, conflicts with the very idea of abortion, not to mention the question of medical research. Fem & Law invites us, like the Women's Council, like the CAL (Centre d'Action Layique), like so many other professionals on the ground, to avoid this slippery slope on which this government has settled. It invites us to respect women's rights, especially when it comes to antenatal life. Cake on the cake, not content to codify the pain and give a status to an unviable fetus, you take the risk of shaking the peace of households. Indeed, a declaration of a lifeless child can be made without the consent of the mother, the one who suffers in his flesh from not being able to become a mother this time. A diktat of the father or companion may be imposed against the mother's opinion. I am tabling an amendment so that at least every time, the mother's agreement to this inclusion is required. I hope that, at the very least, this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, will be able to make its end in this House this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS has proposed another path: public health and concrete support for women, couples and professionals. At present, almost nothing is in place to enable parents to benefit from such accompaniment. There are no plans to value the work of gynaecologists-obstetricians, neonatologists, midwives, psychologists, social workers in the care of perinatal mourning. This is costly work in terms of time and staff if the accompaniment is carried out correctly. Today, the specific consultations carried out within this framework are in fact equated with conventional antenatal or postnatal consultations during a well-run pregnancy. The nomenclature thus ignores the time and staff needed to respond to these specific situations, to try to help digest such a tragedy, to help restore meaning to these couples. Medical personnel are thus forced to exceed the theoretically planned time and sessions with families to show themselves to be simply human. At this level, I would point out, no progress is being proposed by the government. We have tabled proposals. They will be reviewed again by the House's Public Health Commission. I sincerely hope that we can find solutions to help and accompaniment to these couples. Ladies and gentlemen, you are going to vote for a text that not only limits women's right to dispose of their bodies, but will also put crazy pressure on couples, even unintentionally, even if it is not formally mandatory, by imposing pain management in accordance with your ideology. Do I have to register it in the civil registry? What parent am I? What parent would I have done if I did not identify him civilly as my child? What name would we have given him? These are the questions that parents will ask themselves. I would like to recall here the words of Mrs Heenen-Wolff, psychoanalyst at UCL and ULB: "The mourning of a project when it is unseen, unformalized is often easier, mitigating by this non-materialization the experience of losing a child on the way. The obligation to deal with the consequences of miscarriage, such as the invitation to choose a first name, can only accentuate the feeling of defeat. Why do you have to name and register such a disaster? That some people want to keep more traces of it than others is a legitimate step. It must not cover all other ways of getting out of it." Everything is said and I will complete with the message so often analysed in committee by Mrs Anne-Cécile Noël, social worker at the CHU de Saint-Pierre. She says: "Creating a standard causes psychological effects in parents. How can we not make some people feel guilty? How can medical teams work safely?" To these essential questions, no answer. Just a stubbornness. You are simply on this march, which I do not appreciate very much, which, increasingly, in so many European countries in particular, is organising the regression of women's rights. This will never be accepted by the PS!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u92	Mr President, I have tried to be very respectful and therefore I have not interrupted Mrs Onkelinx, but I cannot let go of what I have just heard. I join Mrs. Onkelinx on all the work that has been done at the hospital team level. I have asked Minister De Block several times about the fact that these teams are not financially supported. Mrs Onkelinx, on the other hand, I do not agree with you at all on the rest of your remarks. When you come here to explain, when you try to explain, that a faculty provided for in the law would be a so-called obligation, you completely transform the bill! Furthermore, you explain to us that, in the end, this is a complete questioning of the voluntary termination of pregnancy, even though it has nothing to do with it. You explain to us the right to declare a miscarriage in the commune without the consent of the woman who lost her pregnancy. Excuse me, I find that, on your part, the way in which you transform the text is truly unacceptable. Mrs. Onkelinx, words make sense. When you change words to this point, without nuances, that you simplify them in a truncated and erroneous way, it is not acceptable, especially in the head of responsible policies. You know as well as I do that the rule of registration in the commune after 180 days is already applicable today. We have simply transposed the same rule for children born without life between four and a half months and six months of pregnancy. You're telling us here that there's going to be miscarriages. Let me tell you that the way you say it is particularly disrespectful for the parents concerned. It's a real slap and, for me, it's even a real intolerance! If it's a faculty, and it's obviously important that it be, it allows everyone to live his or her parent's mourning as he or she sees fit. This also respects parents who do not want to make this statement, and this is particularly important. But above all, it allows those who want the state to recognize this birth, and to be recognized themselves, not as nothing, but as parents, to achieve this advance, which will help the process of mourning. If I agree with some of your comments, I find the way in which you spoke really unacceptable, and I find other parts of your remarks particularly unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u93	Mr President, in order to prepare for this session, I have taken the trouble of rereading numerous testimonies from professionals, men and women who, on a daily basis, accompany these women in their pain and suffering. I do not, as you do, sweep with a back of my hand, what they and they tell us, namely that a project like this could increase their suffering and the difficulty of mourning. It is not enough, Mr. Clarinval, to move your head from one side to the other to be right. Read what is said! Read what is said! In my opinion, Mr. Clarinval, you haven't read. I can say in any case that we have taken the time to listen to a lot of professionals who are next to the men and women who are experiencing this pain. Most of them asked not to continue in this direction. Mrs Fonck, you're going to tell me that you had another proposal that we didn't want. But we went to you and said that since you absolutely wanted to move forward, despite our disagreements, we were prepared to take steps to try, in this difficult matter, to find a consensus. And we asked that the unviable foetus not be recorded in a civil registration, by virtue of which it would be recognized as a person. We proposed to include it in an ad hoc file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u94	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u95	Mrs. Fonck, calm down! Maybe it's because I also know this suffering that other parents have experienced. Is that enough for you? Maybe I can talk about it better than others. A little decency, all right? Codifying this pain and thus increasing it, as the professionals say, is more than a bad idea, it is a mistake. To formally register, in a civil registration act, an unviable foetus is to be found in a number of rights for which women and men have fought for years, including the right to abortion. This text would also allow this inscription against the wife's will, on the pretext that her companion or husband wants it. A diktat of a companion or husband against the will of the wives! You think that's normal, you! And so yes, I'm fighting that, Mrs. Fonck. Indeed, I fully defend this case, as I have developed, by asking above all that it be considered as a public health file and not as a codification, as you have done, with back-thinking.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u96	Codification! Just that term, in your head, means a lot of things. I note, Mrs. Onkelinx, that you blocked this case in the government for ten years. It provided for what you are proposing today, namely a register specific to the municipality. Even that, you blocked it. That means everything. This means that, in any case and regardless of the content, you have decided, for ideological reasons, not to allow some parents who wish to do so and who need it for their journey of mourning, to make this statement. Whatever the content of the text! And it's been ten years. In addition, I am surprised at your reasoning regarding registration in the municipality. Because you never worried until after six months of pregnancy, there was already this registration in the municipality, via the same device as that provided here between four and a half and six months. This 'two-weight measure, this way in which, today, you point that finger at it is amazing. For ten years, if you had been less blocked on this issue for ideological reasons, we could have progressed much faster. In terms of registration, in my personal capacity, I thought it was up to the woman to decide. I was much more feminist than you because, with you, it was the couple. Therefore, you will understand that when it is the couple, the woman may also, within the couple, be under the diktat of the companion or companion. Personally, I offered the woman. I hear you're less feminist and I take note of that. Stop making it look like a faculty is an obligation! You're a lawyer and you know it perfectly well. But for what is essential, namely the parents concerned who wish to do so, this text will be an additional element in their mourning process. This text allows, through transitional provisions, the recognition of a child born without life, even if it is several years old. Many people wish to do so and will do so. I'll finish by asking you for some intellectual honesty. Indeed, the opinions that emerge from all the hearings carried out among field experts and health professionals, which I know a little bit, are not those that you put forward as so-called majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u97	Mr President, I am always amazed to see how the discourse is conducted when it comes to lifeless children. We have seen many parents expecting a child, weave all kinds of thoughts about it, and then faced the loss of that child, which for them was not a fetus but their baby. They talk about it in that terminology. I must say that I was incredibly surprised, Mrs Onkelinx, when, at the time of the hearing, I was confronted by a question that I had not yet stopped: what are the consequences for abortion? That is something we never focused on when we talked about lifeless children. I'd like to repeat that. For us, we are dealing with two completely different situations. I have had to observe that some of this is different across the language line. We have never experienced this in Flanders. When I talk about it, people look very surprised at me and they tell me that being confronted with a lifeless child is something entirely different than being confronted with the question of whether or not one wants an abortion. Look at the Netherlands, Mrs. Onkelinx. There are abortions too, but there one can register lifeless children from the moment one so desires. There's no discussion about that. There is no attack on whether one is for or against abortion. For us, we are dealing with two totally different worlds that should not be mixed together. I am always surprised that you want to mention it again and again. In fact, I deeply regret it, because that ultimately orients the debate quite differently from what it is intended to do, because it is intended to ensure that parents who are confronted with this grief have another possibility, namely registration, in order to retain the memory of their child and to feel that they are also recognised in their grief.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the regulation before us today is a regulation that has been established after consultation with many experts from both the medical profession and from associations of interests. Parents have also come to testify. Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken the time to listen carefully to all of them. It is not just my group that has tabled a proposal. We have had this proposal since 2004. It aims to extend the existing regime, which we have known in our civil law since 1999. It has to be said that the hearings have highlighted a number of elements and points of attention which, at first sight, do not stand still immediately. We all know that pregnancy, a wish for children and the birth of a child are usually the finest moments in one's life. We know that sometimes things can go wrong and that people who experience this, as Mrs Onkelinx rightly pointed out, are surrounded by family, friends, partner, medical and healthcare sectors. They do everything they can to help those people and teach them how to cope with the loss. We have also heard that some of them want to literally give the loss a written place. That cannot be an obligation if the child is not viable. In our view, however, it should be an opportunity for a non-viable child from a number of weeks in which we could speak of a child in the making. However, we have understood it well and we have listened carefully to those who were concerned about the unintended consequences. Therefore, the text explicitly states that a child born non-viable and non-viable cannot have legal personality. That provision is explicitly incorporated into the law in order to avoid unintended consequences. That's literally in the text. However, we have paid attention to and wanted to take into account the parents who want to place the loss from a 140-day or 20-week pregnancy by having the child registered, without any further legal effects than those mentioned in the law. For a viable child from 180 days of stillborn, nothing changes. In order to underline that clear distinction between the two situations, namely whether or not a stillborn child was viable, only the first name and, in the other case, first name and surname can be registered. In other words, the scheme in question, which extends the existing one, concerns a possibility for parents to register the loss of a non-viable non-viable child, no more or no less. That question lives with a lot of parents. Registration is not an obligation and certainly does not result in it conferring legal personality on the child in the making which is not viable and is not born alive. I think we have paid attention to the unintended consequences, but we also want to take into account the desire of parents to give this grief a place. That is why my group will approve the regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u99	Mr President, we will support the draft law. In fact, we had tabled a proposal along the same lines ourselves. By the way, we have never made or wanted to make the link with abortion. For us, we are dealing with two completely different situations. I would like to emphasise three points in the draft law, which are of particular importance to us. Firstly, we welcome the fact that the draft law leaves parents the choice of whether or not to register the child. Everyone does indeed have their way of mourning and people must be totally free in what way they mourn. Secondly, we consider the clear provision in the draft law that a lifeless person in this way does not have legal personality to be very important. Thirdly, we support Mr Onkelinx's amendment, so that we can even better guarantee that no pressure is being exerted on women. In short, we welcome the draft, as amended at the various committee meetings, because it meets the bill that we ourselves tabled. We shall therefore support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a bizarre moment, but we think it is important that this draft be debated today. The desire has long existed with a large number of parents who are faced with the loss of a lifeless child, in order to gain greater recognition for the existence of that child also because of the government. Today there is already an obligation to register at the civil status of a pregnancy of more than 180 days. Since 1999, a first name can also be given to that child. It is a question of many parents, in support of their mourning process, to acknowledge the existence of their child. We have had many contacts with our group with parents of lifeless children. Long before this legislature, we had several proposals to extend the right to register a child to cases of pregnancy of less than 180 days. These proposals were parallel to scientific insights. The World Health Organisation also reduced the limit of the viability of children to 140 days. Ladies and gentlemen, we also note that both the Flemish and Walloon decrees and the Brussels decrees state that lifeless babies can be buried or cremated, even in the event of pregnancy less than 180 days. In Flanders there is no lower limit for burial, while in Wallonia and Brussels it is 15 weeks. That is why we originally proposed with our amendment that registration should be made possible in accordance with the regulations in the various regions. We would have liked to have included this in the final text. However, we have taken part in the compromise that has been found, which allows more parents than today to be recognised through the registration of a lifeless born child. I often hear references to le staut de l'embryos, but the status of the embryo is not relevant in the present draft law. However, it is about the possibility for parents with great sorrow to register their lifeless born child, if those parents consider it important, and not to register if they consider it unimportant. In my opinion, this does not create a feeling of guilt towards parents who do not want registration or who do not think registration is important. We simply offer an extra opportunity to the parents who do. I just think it's a recognition and respect for people who are confronted with such grief. By the way, in the Netherlands such legislation already exists, and there was no misapprehension as to whether it is interfering with abortion legislation, which we do not do on the Flemish side. We have just had a little discussion about whether or not we recognize the desire of men or women. We have already discussed this in committee. How should registration proceed? Well, we have just adopted the rules that already apply to lifeless children born without a child in pregnancy for more than 180 days, for lifeless children born without a child in pregnancy of less than 180 days. If partners are married or if parents have agreed on prenatal recognition, registration is also possible. I remember Mr Van Hecke's remark that the father in the family expects the child as much as the mother. In my view, this is also important. If there is no recognition or if the partners are unmarried, the mother can indeed veto it. In the case of a marriage or in the case of a prenatal recognition, which also requires the consent of the mother, we believe that both partners should be able to register individually. What I would like to mention, because I think it is important, is that, as with the previous legislative amendment, a transitional period of one year has been provided for. In the event of a pregnancy of more than 180 days, parents will be able to give a family name to their child for one year. In a pregnancy between 140 and 180 days, parents will be given the opportunity to give a first name to the child. We ask for this change of law for the sake of registration. And you are absolutely right, Mrs Onkelinx, if you say that more is needed for the parents than just the possibility of registration. Like you, I listened to the hearings. And I have great admiration for the way in which medical personnel are handling such situations in hospitals, doctors, nurses and also multidisciplinary teams. They guide the parents so that their grief, which will not go away, becomes bearable. And like you, I have asked Minister De Block to provide the necessary support for this. There must be guidance, just like for the parents of young children who die. The same support in their grief should be offered to the parents who are confronted with the grief after a lifeless born child.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have taken ample time in committee to discuss the texts. It was a long process with very detailed hearings, two or three years ago. We have heard various actors there, people from the medical world, parents and associations who have been working for years to improve the status of the stillborn child. It is, of course, a difficult and delicate subject. Three years ago, there were a large number of lyrics that went in almost all directions. In the various texts, the deadlines differed sharply. There was a risk, among other things, that the deadline would be close to the abortion deadline. After a very long discussion, the present text has emerged. A stillborn child is a tragedy for everyone. It is a tragedy for the mother but also for the father, for the grandmother but also for the grandfather, for the brothers and sisters and the relatives. I think every parent will try to give the stillborn child a place in his life. Everyone will indeed do so in their own way. In one case it will be absolutely necessary that there is a great deal of help from family and friends, from the partner, to deal with that difficult period. Other parents will need more. The question that has lived in society for so long is the desire to give the stillborn child a name, to be able to obtain recognition, not only if it is born more than 180 days after conception but also for stillborn children earlier than 180 days and after 140 days. This text is a step forward. We have said in committee that we can largely agree with it because it contains a number of important principles. Firstly, the extension to the period between 140 and 179 days is an optional option. It's not an obligation. The law doesn't impose it. Parents can choose. They have the freedom to do the registration. I think it is very important that this is a free choice. Secondly, it is also very clear in the text that the stillborn child is not given legal personality and that there are no rights attached to the recognition, registration or giving a name. That is also essential. Thirdly, there is the possibility to give a family name when the child is born after 180 days and a first name when it is born between 140 and 179 days after the conception. It is very important for many parents that a photo, or the print of a hand or a foot, can also have a name. The text before us is fairly balanced. However, we know that there are still points of discussion, that there are sensitivities about who can take the initiative and who can ask for registration. We have discussed this for a long time, and I have just been referred to, and the debate has sometimes been a bit difficult, because at that time there were almost exclusively women present in the Committee on Justice. So there was no gender balance there. And I understand the importance attached to these points. When a child is born, a father is usually present. A father who also wished for that child. We must also try to give the father a place in that process. All the formulas that can be drawn up with regard to the question of who may or may not request registration will have advantages and disadvantages, but I think that the text before us today is quite acceptable. Other formulas, where the application is made jointly, may also be acceptable, but there is always a situation where there is a problem and we cannot solve all the problematic situations. This text raises some ethical questions. That is why the members of our group will vote on it with all due conscience.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u102	Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will obviously shorten my speech. I have already replied to our colleague Mrs Onkelinx. It is true that the CDH has wanted to pass such a bill for ten years. Ten years we have written the texts almost as they were in the current draft. Ten years that by two or three times, in the very last minute, the project was blocked for unfounded reasons, supposedly that of wanting to violate the abortion law, whereas it is ten thousand leagues away from our intentions from the start. Everyone knows that and I'm delighted that both of them have repeated it here in a very clear way. Ten years that we simply want to hear the pain of parents who have not had the chance to see the child born and grow up they have borne. They are parents who have had this child-bearing project and who between 4 and a half months (140 days) and six months (179 days) since the child's conception, have experienced the tragedy of a child born – because for them this child was born – without life. This pain is experienced in a very diverse way by couples, parents. Some want to move on immediately, resume their life, their work, sometimes restart a new pregnancy and especially talk about it as little as possible. It is their way of experiencing mourning and it is deeply respectable, and respected by this project. Others, on the other hand, need to experience their mourning in another way, to leave marks, memories, material traces such as footprints, photos, burial, a first name and perhaps a name in a register, in their marriage diary, to give a place to the child in their lives and in the siblings. It is often forgotten, but for siblings it is sometimes just as important as for parents. It seems important to give this child the place he has occupied and this place must be known and recognized. At least that's my conviction. I repeat, of course, once again, that everyone has the complete freedom to choose what suits him best. Everyone has the opportunity to experience mourning as he sees fit. I deeply respect this choice, whatever it is. In any case, I never wanted – as did my group – anything other than an opportunity and not an obligation. As many have pointed out, for many years, some hospitals have put in place a difficult but magnificent accompaniment – I dare the term – of the parents deprived of their child, through procedures of respect for mourning as well as collections of their memories in medical records – which are sometimes still consulted many years later. The skin-flowering reaction can sometimes be followed by a parental desire to be able to find traces to progress in the work of mourning. The work of the medical-psychosocial teams in hospitals is almost voluntary. I told you, minister, even though this is not part of your jurisdiction. We also said it and told Minister De Block again. That is why I hope, ladies and gentlemen of the Majo- or minority government, that we can together – for example, through amendments to the budget – finally get real recognition – not only symbolic, but also and above all financial – of the work done by these hospital teams. As you know, this bill contains a number of transitional provisions, which ensure that parents who have been unable to obtain recognition for their child born without life are not discriminated against. Again, no obligation is imposed; the choice will belong to them and it will be eminently respectable, whatever it may be. For us, it was fundamental that the bill include such transitional provisions for the benefit of parents. Minister, you know how much we care about this text. It took ten years for it to succeed: it is a famous journey. Evidence is therefore given that the mobilisation of Parliament can lead to results, even if sometimes it takes a long time. We are, of course, delighted that it is reaching the final stage and that it will enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u103	Mr President, although the aim of this text to support the mourning of couples faced with the interruption of pregnancy is highly commendable, I personally cannot support it as presented to us. Indeed, to the extent that it provides that a father who is married or who has made an antenatal recognition may, without the consent of the mother, request that an act of a child without life be prepared, it is not possible for me to follow the majority. Of course, I am glad that more and more fathers want to be involved in the pregnancy and life of their children. We have also made many proposals in this direction. I am thinking in particular of the proposal we tabled less than a month ago on the possibility of making paternity leave compulsory and extending it to 15 days. But this proposal has been rejected, as have others. Personally, I cannot accept that this representation of the facts should be imposed on the woman who is the only one who has physically experienced the termination of pregnancy. Moreover, I do not see how the vote on this law would be a victory for couples who have suffered this tragedy, while at the same time it opens the door to difficulties and violations of the rights of other women. Indeed, we know that things can evolve within a couple. It is attested that domestic violence increases or appears during pregnancy in 40 per cent of cases. They are also the cause of a voluntary termination of pregnancy in five. Women's rights must be at the heart of thinking when it comes to antenatal life, and I have the feeling that this has not been the case here. Assisting people with a sudden termination of pregnancy is part of physical and psychological health assistance. All the experts interviewed in June 2015 argued in favour of reimbursement of the psychological consultations by INAMI and the cost of accompanying the competent services when this type of tragedy occurs. Also mentioned were the formation of teams, the provision of clear information on the possibilities of burial and the difficulty of welcoming the personal, philosophical and religious conceptions of families, etc. But I note that there is no provision in this text for these various aspects. The same applies to the various policy notes that have been reviewed in recent months. On the other hand, it was suggested that the act of a lifeless child should be entered in the civil register. I have a problem with that. When we look at the context, we can see that this government's plan is not to place women's rights at the centre - which is why I cannot support the text we are considering today. The February 2017 text on prenatal recognition was already anticipating what we are seeing today. There was indeed no deadline for the design date, which can already be considered an attack. Secondly, the saga around the non-criminalisation of the voluntary termination of pregnancy, even though it was desired by civil society as a whole, is a real failure for this Parliament and for the government. Putting systematic limitations on women's right to dispose of their bodies, without interference from their spouses or the authorities, pushes me to go against it. In conclusion, I recall that three weeks ago, a march for women's rights brought together 5 000 people in the streets of Brussels to call for the fight against femicides and violence against women, to call for a real decriminalisation of the voluntary termination of pregnancy. I note that this is absolutely not part of the government's plans. I invite parliamentarians who wish to move forward on the issue of women's rights to address the real demands of the various feminist movements and the demands of women in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u104	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have followed very carefully the debate on this bill, which is intended to facilitate the mourning of parents facing miscarriage. Who of us does not know a person facing such a trial? The bill pursues a laudable intention in addition to the measures already in place to provide moral support to parents who have lost their child prematurely. Cities and municipalities cannot provide in communal cemeteries a place for the burial or cremation of children born without a life with a nameplate. In the Flemish Region, this possibility exists from the time of conception, and in the Brussels and Walloon regions, from fifteen weeks of pregnancy. In practice, it is observed that these plots of foetus stars are often abandoned after a few months, it is still that this need for moral support exists and that it must be heard. My group was in no way closed to legislation aimed at better accompanying bereaved parents. But we're not fools either. It was enough for us to read the bills that followed the government agreement and set sustainability thresholds for the legal recognition of the foetus to understand the link between this issue and the legislation on abortion and, more generally, the status that this majority intends to confer on the foetus. Things have become even more obvious when the parties behind these proposals have repeatedly delayed the debate on the decriminalisation of abortion in committee and finally passed a law now penalizing women who have abortions beyond the 12-week deadline: a political deal unworthy of parliamentary freedom on ethical issues and on which we have to decide again today. Like the debate on the decriminalisation of abortion, I regret that the opinion of the experts heard in committee has not been taken into account. While doctors and practitioners who take care of parents facing miscarriage every day have insisted on the inutility, or even the totally counterproductive nature, of a legal recognition of the lifeless child, the majority have taken refuge behind the government agreement. You will probably tell me that the text has evolved since it was tabled. I note, however, that the most substantial change, that of replacing maternity leave with incapacity for work, was made at the request of the Council of State even though the experts had also requested it, without you having considered it useful to respond to it. For the rest, the bill still contains far too many pitfalls. Compared to the semantic confusion of this project and its dangers, talking about a child from 140 days of conception, 20 weeks, is not in accordance with medical practice. The experts kept reminding us that the neonatology teams never revive until 22 weeks of amenorrhea, the threshold of viability starting only at 24 weeks, i.e. 168 days. At CHU Saint-Pierre, as at UZ Gent, no baby is taken care of for 24 weeks. Contrary to what the majority says, the bill does not respect the government's agreement to legislate on stillborn children - which implies a birth - and not on children born from a miscarriage without birth, taking into account developments in neonatology. But even more fundamentally, this semantic confusion is dangerous in that it calls into question MGIs practiced beyond 20 weeks, i.e. medical interruptions of pregnancy when the continuation of pregnancy seriously endangers the health of the woman or when it is certain that the unborn child will be suffering from a serious and incurable condition. It also challenges research on foetal tissues, embryonic stem cells. It calls into question the freedom of doctors to revive or not a foetus that would henceforth be considered a child. It sows confusion between the concepts of embryo, foetus and child, a confusion that the opponents of the right to abortion feed on to regard abortion as infanticide. In committee, the example of other European countries was put forward by the minister to say that it was possible to legislate on this subject without calling into question the IVG and that these laws could "coexist harmoniously". However, it is striking to note that the majority has taken care to silence the example of France, where the declaration exists as early as 15 weeks from conception, but where it is voluntary, regardless of the threshold of gestation; where it is done in the death registers when there are special registers for each category of act, and where no family name can be given. Of course, the majority did not mention Hungary, which is the most eloquent example. While the abortion was decriminalized in 1956, the constitutional recognition of life from conception in 2012 had the effect of making abortions impossible, at least those performed legally and safely. In 2016, some aids were withdrawn from abortion clinics. I am therefore afraid, and it is a fear shared by the Conseil des femmes francophones de Belgique, that the step taken by your bill is too much in challenging the right to abortion. This right has already been challenged by your law authorizing the prenatal recognition of the child by an unmarried parent from the beginning of pregnancy, or the right to criminal sanctions against women who have abortions outside the legal time limit, as well as against their doctor. What guarantees can you give us today that this law will not be the one that will undermine the debate on the extension of the statutory time limit for the abortion and the time limit for reflection? With regard to the registration of the act of a lifeless child in the registers of civil status, the registration of a child born of a miscarriage calls into question the raison d'être of the civil status, i.e. authentically establishing proof of a person's status in society. The state of the people is of public order. The public is therefore deceived by affirming the optional nature of the act of a lifeless child for the period between 140 and 179 days. Whether you like it or not, the act of a lifeless child will be an act of civil status. It is all the more clear that the bill will enter into force on 31 March next, together with the law on the modernization of civil registers, so that the act of a lifeless child will be registered in the civil registration bank. As of that date, there will no longer be a specific register. I therefore regret that you have refused to start any reflection on the establishment of an ad hoc register outside the civil register, in conjunction with the discussion on the law on the modernization of civil registers. More fundamentally, the obligation to establish this act from 180 days of conception seems incomprehensible to us. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, it is explained that the purpose of the bill is "to respond adequately to the existing needs of the parents of a child without life, in order to give that child a place in their lives and to help them mourn". Further on, the explanatory memorandum already refutes this commitment by making it an unfortunate generality that the registration of a child without life is seen as an important step in the process of mourning the family. The experts' presentations were clear, however, that in the face of the extremely diverse needs and profiles of the parents, they had to declare a child lost to the commune for 180 days, to force them to personify their foetus, to project themselves into a family life that they would never have been able to prove extremely heavy and ultimately totally counterproductive in terms of mourning. How can one imagine that women who do not want to see, name or bury their foetuses do not feel violent and shaken by a law that would dictate how to live their mourning? As with the IVG, your government therefore imposes the whole moral conception of a few. Here it is to tell all these couples that they have not lost their little bean but a child, a person, with all the psychological consequences that this implies! With regard to the assignment of a family name from 180 days on, the Minister repeatedly repeated in committee that the attribution of a family name to the child would not have legal effects, nor would there be recognition of legal personality. However, this principle is derogated from both in the wording of the draft ("unless permitted by law") and in the possibility of assigning that surname. It is not true to claim that the declared child will not have legal personality from the moment he or she has the fundamental attributes of legal personality (name, first name) legally recognized through his or her surname, not to mention that this declaration is made to the registrar. As we have said in committee, if the government undertakes not to provide for any legal effects resulting from this act, then it removes the phrase "unless the law permits" to the principle of the absence of recognition of legal personality and its effects. Finally, concerning the optional nature of the act of a lifeless child from 140 days, as we have said, imposing such an act on 140 days of conception is unacceptable! At this stage of gestation, a fetus is not viable so declaring it in an official administrative act has no meaning whatsoever. By recognizing a stillborn child at 140 days of gestation, the reality is falsified by telling parents that they have lost a child when it is not a child. But even by leaving it to the parents' free appreciation from 180 days of gestation, this act remains unacceptable. Imagine a couple faced with a fait diaper. Imagine that they want to forget this painful episode as soon as possible and move on to rebuild themselves. It is precisely at that time that the nursing staff will propose to them to register their baby with an identity and first name in a civil registration. In the opinion of the experts, whether it is Anne-Cécile Noël, a social worker at CHU Saint-Pierre, or Professor Yvon Englert, this proposal may lead to guilt or even incitement in the head of the parents. Beyond this guilt, the parents would be confronted once again, and only because the legislator decided, with the family life that they had imagined and that they would not eventually have. As Julie Belhomme, Deputy Head of Clinic of the Department of Obstetric Gynaecology at CHU Saint-Pierre, explained, giving parents the opportunity to recognize their loss in civil status can be a good thing for some but not for all. Lowering the threshold from 180 to 140 days would put practitioners in a serious difficulty compared to what should be said to those concerned. How can we tell someone that the child is not viable and that the pregnancy is interrupted for medical reasons and that the child must be declared to the registrar? The declaration of birth must be made only from the threshold of viability. As for the patriarchal vision of this project, the last pitfall I would like to stress concerns Article 4(2), which provides for the mother's authorization to establish the act of a lifeless child only when the father or co-parent is not married to the mother and has not recognised the child conceived. For all other cases, i.e. those most frequent, the act can be prepared even without the request of the person who has lived the pregnancy and is, therefore, the one who should in all cases have a say in the follow-up of his miscarriage, whether administrative or psychological. I am particularly surprised that the transitional provisions of the bill, namely those applicable to couples who had been miscarriaged several months or years before the new legislation came into force, provide that the application must be made jointly by both parents. Why not have planned a joint request for couples today faced with miscarriage and failing a request from the woman? Contrary to what Ecolo-Groen put forward in committee, giving women the power of the last word does not constitute a violation of the Constitution. To ignore women's views is, on the contrary, an infringement of women's rights, their integrity and our Constitution. I therefore find these differences in treatment difficult, both from a legal and a moral point of view. How can the opinion of the first person concerned be exceeded? If a woman is forced to make a decision without the consent of her or her partner, it is not without reason but to preserve her physical and psychological integrity. How can we consider taking that freedom away from him? As in the debate on abortion, it is again the autonomy of decision-making, the self-determination of women that is being breached. Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to assist those facing a sudden interruption of pregnancy is not a matter of amending the Civil Code, but of concrete physical and psychological support measures, emergency and specialised reception throughout the country, reimbursement by INAMI of psychological monitoring consultations, better support for civil society and healthcare staff, which is absolutely not foreseen in the draft law. It is, however, these avenues, which respect everyone's right and are less infringing on our acquired rights, that should be explored in the Committee on Health and not in the Committee on Justice. The project provides for administrative procedures that will make miscarriage procedures even more difficult and costly. As Anne-Cécile Noël of CHU Saint-Pierre's social service summed up very well, if automatically providing an act to these families seems generous and understanding, it will, in many cases, worsen the situation. Instead of debating in the serenity of a question as fundamental and legitimate as the best accompaniment given to the couple faced with a miscarriage, you have locked yourself in an agenda that ignores the demands of experts and the public. I would like to recall that the petition "No to a status as a person for the foetus" collected more than 18,500 signatures. As in the debate on the false decriminalization of the abortion, which has been the subject of a sinister bargaining, you prefer the execution of your policy deal to the search for solutions that really take into account medical practice and the very different profiles of women and couples that you claim to want to help. I therefore call on you to give priority to avenues that are part of a comprehensive health policy that is consistent with the reality of the field, with that of couples, who must remain free to live their mourning as they please; avenues that are respectful of women's rights, practice and medical research. Otherwise, we will not be able to support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u105	Mr President, first of all I should like to apologise for the absence of Mr Van Hees. He's sick, and I'll take his place. Colleagues, the present draft law aims to extend the existing regime for lifeless children. It is now possible to register lifeless children from 180 days of pregnancy in the obituary. The main provision of this bill introduces an act of a lifeless born child and extends the scheme to fetuses from 140 days, at the request of one of the parents. A first name and family name can be given to children after 180 days. The stated aim is to facilitate the mourning process of parents. This seems to us to be a very important and legitimate objective. The question is, however, whether this draft law will help in this and whether this objective is the real objective. There is no provision for better medical, physical or psychological guidance in this draft law. Our first problem is that one of the parents, and not just the mother, can apply for this deed. As the Conseil des femmes francophones de Belgique says: "The autonomy of the woman is clearly hampered by this text which provides for the possibility for the companion or husband to declare miscarriage in the commune without the consent of the woman who has lost the pregnancy." For us, this is totally unacceptable, which is why we will support Mr Onkelinx's amendment in the vote. The introduction of a new lower limit of 140 days is also problematic for us. One may wonder whether this is even necessary if the bill is as innocent as the Minister claims. Unless, of course, it is intended that this rule will have consequences, if not legal or ethical, if not with this law, or perhaps in the future. The Minister and the majority parties have justified that lower limit by referring to the so-called real viability. In practice, as confirmed in the hearings, it remains at 24 weeks. In Belgian law, the limit of viability is fixed at 180 days. Removing this limit can affect doctors who refuse to keep a fetus alive between 140 and 180 days. In addition, even today, pregnancies are terminated after 20 weeks for urgent medical reasons. This too may be in danger. Ladies and gentlemen, there is, of course, a global context in which this draft needs to be looked at. It is therefore our fear that this law should serve for what the CAL says. I would like to quote the Centre d'action seculare: "Grave in the marble the recognition of a form of personification of the foetus". In several European countries, such as Hungary, this recognition has already led in a devious way to restricting women's right to self-determination and the right to abortion. Fem&LAW proposes as follows. I quote: "The recognition of a status, even limited, to the embryo that does not reach the threshold of viability was in conflict with the very idea of abortion, whether chosen or required for medical reasons. In continuing in this direction, it is to be feared that the debates on the extension of the statutory deadline for abortion will be clearly mortgaged by this bill that is being put to the vote this Thursday in Parliament." So, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that there are better ways of alleviating the real suffering of those who see pregnancy being broken down against their will. The PVDA will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u106	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u107	Mr President, I shall be very brief. Let me say that I am pleased that we have finally been able to conclude the difficult issue of the recognition of the lifeless child without legal consequences. This responds to the wishes of many women and men in this country. I would like to thank the majority and opposition Members who supported this draft and hope that it can be adopted by a majority later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u108	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u109	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3271/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3271/10) The title was amended by the Committee in draft law amending various provisions on the regulation of the lifeless child." The title has been amended by the committee into a bill amending various provisions relating to the regulation of the child without life". The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u110	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u111	Sustained: the vote on the amendment and Article 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u112	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 3 and 5 to 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u113	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and article that has been retained and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u114	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Bellens, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u115	Colleagues, I will speak briefly from my bench. I wanted to say a few words about the text proposed to us today. Of course, we will support this technical project, but it is an opportunity to once again criticize the government's human resources policy in defence. According to the press, the Belgian Defence force has already fallen below the threshold of 25,000 military personnel provided for in the strategic vision. This is shown on this graph of the Defence Administration, which illustrates how this government has pursued a harmful policy also at the level of Defence personnel. A picture is better than long speeches. We clearly see it as a crushing of the number of applicants attracted to a military career under this legislature. Today, you are already biting your fingers, but it is perhaps already too late, as the attacks on military status have been strong in recent years. I would like to recall that this government has drastically limited commitments to save money, but also that all soldiers are still under fixed-term status. These are two bad decisions that the army will take a long time to recover. Indeed, the regal function of Defence must rely on the essential and primary resource: these men and women who make up it. Their vision of the defence is more than dismal, as illustrated by an internal investigation conducted last year within the department. It is also clear that the decisions taken under this government to unilaterally extend the military career by seven years, to resort to all-va outsourcing, and to constantly challenge the achievements of the military's status are not unrelated to this historic attrition within the department. The new budget cuts, of course, are not. This law, and above all this graph, once again illustrates that my group's criticisms have been largely justified, since the first day. I take this opportunity to wish Mr Reynders good luck if he gets confidence on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u116	There is no other intervention and I do not believe that this requires a reaction. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u117	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3377/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3377/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u118	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Piedboeuf, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u120	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3360/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3360/3) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u121	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u122	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u123	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u124	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3373/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3373/3) The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u125	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u126	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (3397/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (3397/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the interested party from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Members must vote. Since Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is absent, I propose that our youngest two Members present, Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Kristof Calvo, be appointed as voters. Two members shall proceed to the counting of the ballot. As Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou is not here, I propose that you appoint the two youngest members present, Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Kristof Calvo, as deputy returning officer. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u127	We are going to close the secret vote on naturalization applications. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u128	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection - and with the exception of proposal No. I consider that 3398/1 by Mrs Smeyers, who is postponing her request for consideration, to be adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals are sent to the relevant committees. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of proposal No 3398/1 by Mrs Smeyers, which calls for the postponement of the request to take account of her proposal, I shall consider it to be accepted and refer the proposals to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 December 2018, I also propose to you the motion for a resolution (Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mrs Meyrem Almaci cs) repositioning Belgium in the climate debate, No. 3416/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u129	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 December 2018, I also propose that you take into account the motion for a resolution (Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Ms Meyrem Almaci et al.) to reposition Belgium in the climate debate, No 3416/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u130	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u131	Vote on Amendment No 2 of Barbara Beware of Article 2. (3380/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Barbara Not to Article 2. (3380/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 123 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u132	Mr President, I was confused because of my extra task, which I was not prepared for, because I was just about to ask the urgency of the matter in the recitals for a motion for a resolution. 3416. I have put myself at the service of the Chamber and this extra task has made it very difficult for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u133	It's too late, but it's allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u134	It is very difficult to be both the youngest and the group leader. Really.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u135	Maybe you should choose.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u136	Mr President, I would like to point out that I am the youngest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u137	Mrs Van Camp was very pleased, but seriously for a moment: because of the circumstances, I forgot to ask the urgency, for which I apologize, but I would really like to ask the Chamber the urgency for the resolution by Mr Nollet and Mr Almaci on the climate summit. We had a good exchange of views on this yesterday. The text can still be amended in committee, but the timing is that the urgency is appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u138	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u139	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3380/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3380/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Françoise Schepmans voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u140	Vote on Amendment No 21 by Laurette Onkelinx cs on article 4. (3271/11) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Article 4. (3271/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u141	This has been discussed a lot earlier, but I would like to draw attention to the importance of this amendment, which avoids the possibility of requiring a woman who has just experienced an interruption of pregnancy to register an unviable foetus in the civil registry. It's really to allow the woman to manage her pain as she can.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u142	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 33 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Articles 58 and 59 of Article 4 shall be adopted. Article 4 is adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Articles 58 and 59 of Article 4 shall be adopted. Article 4 was adopted. Mr. Richard Miller voted against. Mrs Karin Lalieux voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u143	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 99 Yes No. [[28]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3271/12) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3271/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u144	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3377/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3377/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u145	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 129 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3360/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3360/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u146	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3373/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3373/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have five votes left, but we must wait for the results of the secret ballot. The meeting was therefore suspended. But stay in the Chamber, because I hope the result will come soon. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u147	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u148	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (3397/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (3397/2) Aantal stemmen 111 Number of voters Valid votes 111 Votes valables Perfect majority 56 Absolute majority All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of four parts (A, B, C and D) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into four parts (A, B, C and D) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u149	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u150	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u151	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u152	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part D) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part D) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u153	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u154	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 126 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u155	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 127 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u156	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 128 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u157	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 128 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part D). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part D). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u159	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's meetings. We need to approve the agenda for next week's sittings. Are you sure you don't mind? "Pas-d-d-observation"? Please don't leave the Chamber. Yes, Mr. Laaouej, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u160	Mr President, I would just like to make sure that you took into account my speech yesterday at the beginning of the sitting. Could you confirm that things have been rectified?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-13-54-plenair-ip262x.u161	I confirm it, everything has been rectified. We can therefore adopt the agenda for next week. The agenda has been adopted. The agenda was approved. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, December 18, 2018 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 18 December 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
