ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u1	Mr Minister, the prison in Tournai suffers, in general, from a staggering lack of resources in its infrastructure to ensure the safety of the places and the agents who work there. The specific problem I would like to highlight is that of the state of the lighting park outside the prison, which ensures the safety of its surroundings. The luminaires to illuminate the extramural path and the prison enclosure walls must be fully restored in order to ensure optimal safety. In addition to the work to be undertaken by the Régie des Bâtiments for external surveillance cameras, perimetric detection and the central information post (PCI), I also consider it essential to take into account also the lighting aspect in the vicinity of the prison, since, moreover, this is an area which falls within the remit of the Directorate-General EPI of the SPF Justice. Minister, is it the intention of DG PPE to refurbish the outdoor lighting park at Tournai Prison? If so, could you provide me with a specific schedule for the renovation work?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u2	Mr Delannois, DG EPI agrees to refurbish the outdoor lighting park (extra-mural paths and enclosure walls) and to do other work at the prison in Tournai (the cameras of the outer edges of perimetric detection and PCI). All these requests were grouped into a single file at the level of DG PPE in order to transmit the complete study of the security of the prison to its external study office. The final dossier was forwarded in May 2017 to the Régie des Bâtiments for processing and publication. The follow-up falls within the competence of the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u3	Minister, I will contact the Régie des Bâtiments, but I can already assure you that the need is real and urgent. I visited the prison and found that three quarters of the surveillance screens are not working. It's a delicate problem for a prison! The same applies to external cameras, which are useful to avoid what is called "dropping" over the wall.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanden Burre's 22954 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u5	Mr President, Minister, before the sixth state reform there were 11 Dutch-speaking police judges and 3 French-speaking judges in the Brussels police court. This linguistic imbalance was explained by the fact that the police court was still linguistically mixed at the time and that there were insufficient bilingual candidates on the French-speaking side. It is a classic that French speakers are less able to learn Dutch and that the Flemings do know French, then have to jump in. With the sixth state reform this was changed and the police court in Brussels was effectively split up, so that a volonté monolingual French-speaking police judges could be appointed. This was accompanied by a significant reduction in the number of Dutch-speaking police judges in Brussels. Of the 11 Dutch-speaking police judges, three remain, one of whom is reported to be ill for a long time and another will soon retire, so that one Dutch-speaking police judge in Brussels will soon be left de facto. In a few years' time, therefore, we evolve from 11 to de facto one Dutch-speaking police judge in Brussels. The situation is worrying. For saving reasons, 10 % is left unoccupied when filling the boxes of these magistrates. The police courts of Halle-Vilvoorde also count in this calculation. That is why there is a fear that the vacancy in Brussels will remain unfilled for a long time. This means that the judges of Halle-Vilvoorde will have to step in, but there is also a shortage of staff. So that is not a good solution. People are also asking for their own structure, with their own chief of police, as is the case in the rest of the country. That is why I have the following questions, Minister. Can you confirm the personnel issue at the Brussels police court? Can the opening place be filled in soon and are you considering taking steps to fill it in soon? Are you prepared to provide this court with its own structure with its own chief of police?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Pas, the legal framework provides for three judges in the Dutch-speaking police court in Brussels. Seven judges have currently been appointed. That is therefore a figure of 233 %. One of the judges retires on 1 February 2018, leaving six judges, three of whom are still attached to the police court. Currently, one of them is long-term absent due to illness. The 3 other magistrates are currently exercising the office of judge in another court. The transitional measure laid down in Article 64 of the Law of 19 July 2012 on the reform of the judicial district provided for a transitional measure allowing judges, in addition to the police court, to be given a mandate with their consent to perform their duties temporarily in another court within the jurisdiction. The assignment ends at the latest when a place is vacant at the Dutch police court. In other words, the three judges can return to the police court if they need to. In view of the specific nature of the judicial district of Brussels, the special situation of the peace judges outside the reform of the courts in Brussels, on the one hand, and the police court in Brussels, which is divided into a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking court, on the other, the legislator has opted to provide for its own management structure, adapted to the context of the judicial district of Brussels. In this respect, I refer to the judgment in No. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 21 December 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The Constitutional Court has accepted that the specific features of the judicial district of Brussels, which includes the Brussels-Capital arrondissement and the administrative arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde, have made it necessary to establish a special arrangement for the organisation of the courts of the district, in particular for the peace courts and the police courts, both for the magistrates and for the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, which I understand is that there is no vacancy and that six Dutch-speaking police judges are still able to replace someone who is retiring or who is ill. I have not received an answer to my question as to whether you are prepared, as is the case in the rest of the country, to give this court its own structure and its own chief of police. They are asking for it themselves. You also referred to the peace appetizers. In this context, I have tabled an interplay and I hope that the Conference of Presidents which took place this afternoon has prevented it. I still need to get that message. Similar problems arise in the peace courts after the division of BHV. There is also the problem of a system with the two bosses, which is not working. I will certainly come back to that later, as soon as my interplay is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament 23153 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u9	Mr. Minister, in a recent press interview, you spoke in favour of a compensation mechanism for the cold cases, which is the crimes deemed to have been unsolved after a very long period of time. This would obviously be a European or even a global first in the handling of judicial cases. In addition to the case of the Brabant killers, which we mentioned last December, other criminal cases could be integrated into the framework of this future mechanism. This objective is not lacking in ambition and is clearly part of a positive approach by the public authorities towards the victims, their loved ones and all the people who are suffering. Minister, what are the exact outlines of your project? What is the planned agenda for the implementation of this measure? What is the status of the consultations on this issue, including with the Commission for Victim Assistance?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u10	Mr Calomne, the idea I have launched is to recognise a "damage" position that has so far not been taken into account for the victims when the judicial investigation into the facts against them lasts because of the lack of evidence. I quote, as the bill states: "The exceptional harm resulting from being long in uncertainty about the identity and motives of the author or authors". Indeed, a very long uncertainty about the identity and motives of the author creates exceptional harm to the victim because she is unable to grieve and continues to ask questions about the crime. Victims are required, long after the facts, to pursue investigations and sometimes to pay costs that are completely out of the costs normally taken into account for a victim when the case has been closed. Currently, victims can obtain financial assistance as soon as a decision of dismissal or dismissal has been taken or one year after a complaint has been lodged, a civil action has been lodged, provided that the perpetrators remain unknown. When the case is not closed and the investigation lasts for a long time – which nourishes their uncertainty – victims are often forced to pursue a series of steps to follow judicial investigations or, for example, need specific therapy to help them overcome their grief. These elements are likely to constitute exceptional harm that must be demonstrated by the victim and will be assessed by the commission. I would like to stress that we must submit to the committee evidence that the victim is confronted with a particular situation linked to a long-term investigation which generates a long period of uncertainty. This aspect distinguishes it from other victims who are also confronted with the consequences of an intentional act of violence. This exceptional harm should be recognized to victims when the events took place more than 10 years earlier. My objective is to incorporate a specific provision into the bill that will generally regulate the operation of the commission for financial assistance to victims of intentional acts, in line with the recommendations of the commission of inquiry into the attacks. The texts will be analysed in intercabinets group in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u12	Mr President, Minister, the entry into force of the potpourri I Act removed the obligation to advise the public prosecutor. The D.A. is now deciding whether or not to give an opinion on a case-by-case basis and in what way, in writing or orally. However, an exception is made for a number of cases, for example in relation to minors. For example, the family court must inform the prosecution of any case relating to a minor. The College of Attorneys General drew up guidelines to ensure uniformity in the implementation of advice. I now read in the report of the Family Courts Working Group of 8 May 2017 that a survey has taken place in the family courts of all arrondissements on the way in which the advice of the Public Prosecutor takes place in practice. That survey was due to be completed in September 2017. Have you received the results of this survey? If so, what can you decide?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u13	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, pursuant to Article 765/1 of the Code of Justice, the family courts and the family chambers of the Court of Justice shall first make an appeal for nullity after having notified the case to the Public Prosecutor and having taken note of his opinion. It is up to the College of Attorneys-General to draw up guidelines determining the cases in which an opinion can be given. This circular provides that the public prosecutor's opinion may be given in cases relating to minors where a certain number of elements arise, elements which are left to their assessment, giving rise to different applications in practice between the different judicial districts. At the meeting of the Family Courts Working Group on 8 May 2017, it was decided to examine these different applications in practice by means of a survey at one of the following meetings, in order to improve the coherence between the different practices on this issue while at the same time ensuring the independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office, provided for in Article 151 of the Constitution. I have not yet received any results from the inquiry, so that the item has not been placed on the agenda for the next part-session either. However, I will inform you as soon as I have taken note of the questioning and the consequences that will be given to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I note that the opinion on conformity has not yet been delivered to you and has not even been discussed. We shall therefore be discussing the dossier in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u15	Mr Minister, on 6 January 2016, some organisations operating in an open letter stated that in some cantons there would be a misinterpretation and that the decisions of certain peace judges would go against the spirit of the law. One year later, a hotline became active where people could report complaints or suggestions with a view to improving, applying or implementing the relevant law of 17 March 2013. An advisory committee, composed of representatives from the welfare sector, examines those reports, discusses them with the Chiefs of Police and Peace Judges, and collects those reports in an annual report, with recommendations to improve legislation. This annual report shall be delivered to the Supreme Court of Justice and to the decision-makers. A good year after the entry into force of the hotline, you will be happy to answer the following questions. Firstly, what is the state of play now that the hotline is running for one year? What are the reports coming in about? Secondly, have you already received the annual report? If so, what recommendations were proposed to improve the law? Thirdly, in an earlier answer to an oral question, you indicated that a French-speaking hotline would also be set up. Is that hotline active by now? Have the same suggestions been made? Fourthly, how is cooperation between the various researchers, namely the representatives of the welfare sector, the chiefs of police and the peace judges?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u16	To date, Mrs Uyttersprot, I have not received an annual report with recommendations to improve the law of 17 March 2013 on governance. On the website www.meldpuntbewinding.be I find that there is also a French-language page, for which a notification form is provided. The Association Nationale d'Aide aux Handicapés Mentaux, ANAHM asbl, in collaboration with the non-profit association Inclusion and non-profit association Inclusion Flanders, is responsible for the logistical management of the hotline. An informal consultation with one of the associations supporting the hotline shows that communication between civil society organisations and the Chiefs of the Peace Courts has greatly improved and there is openness on both sides to discuss problems in the functioning of the regime and to seek solutions. I look forward with you to the first annual report and hope that it will follow soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u17	Minister, I note that there is no annual report yet, but that there has already been informal contact and that this has already led to a better understanding. Of course, a hotline will only be useful if the reports, suggestions and results are effectively dealt with, so that people in the field can be helped forward. Whether that happens informally or through an annual report, I leave it open. In any case, I look forward with you to the submission of the annual report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u18	Mr President, Minister, since the law of 18 July 2006, to favour the equally divided housing of the child whose parents are separated and to regulate the forced implementation of the child's housing, more and more parents who do not live together are asking for residence co-parenting, namely week-week or bilocation arrangements. The judge shall examine and, as a matter of priority, opt for a system of equal distribution of the child's accommodation between parents. The goal is to have the children maintain an effective bond with both parents. The KU Leuven conducted a scientific study to see whether an evaluation of the law of 18 July 2006 is necessary. In the report of the family court working group of 8 May 2017, I read that the results were expected after the summer. I have the following questions. Have you received the results of this study? If so, what did this result in? Have you already received proposals from the court or relevant actors to amend this law if necessary? If so, what are the proposals? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u19	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, the report of the family court working group of 8 May 2017 indeed refers to a doctoral examination that Mrs Christine Van Roy is preparing for the KU Leuven on the residence scheme of children. This doctorate is at an advanced stage and it is expected that the defense will take place in the second half of 2018. In this empirical study, an answer is sought in particular to the question of which criteria the judges consider when formulating a response to the request made by either parent to grant or reject an equal way of residence of the children. It would contain a wealth of information on the basis of a very extensive empirical examination of approximately 1500 judgments, decisions and judgments handed down by 30 Dutch-speaking courts, in 2005 the last year before the entry into force of the Law of 18 July 2006 and in 2013 it would be well after the entry into force of this Law. At present, therefore, the empirical data cannot yet be released. Once the doctorate has been proposed, the results will be discussed at a meeting of the family courts working group. As stated in the report of 8 May 2017, a first proposal to amend the law of 18 July 2006 on evenly distributed residence was also submitted, with a view to feeding the debate. However, as indicated, members considered that it would be better to wait for the results of the survey referred to before discussing further proposals for evaluation or legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u20	Minister, we have recently heard that a quarter of the OCMWs would have waiting lists for debt relief. They therefore urgently ask Flanders to invest in specialised personnel, especially in large cities. Indeed, people with structural debt problems among different creditors are referred to the court for collective debt regulation. While budget guidance is Flemish matter, collective debt regulation is not and is still managed and discussed here. People who are already in serious financial difficulties get additional costs on top of their existing debts, namely interest, remuneration of debt intermediary and so on. The government agreement now provides that the procedure and scope of the collective debt regime will be re-evaluated and, if necessary, measures will be taken to adapt and simplify the procedure. Hence the following questions, some of which may be repeated, but in view of the ongoing investigations, I would like to have had another state of affairs. Has there already been an evaluation of the existing collective debt regime? If so, what has been established and how can this procedure and application be improved? If not, is it foreseen and if so, when? Secondly, has there been any consultation with the Regions on the collective debt settlement procedure and debt mediation procedure in order to bring it closer together? Thirdly, is it perhaps a workable idea to state in the admission condition for collective debt regulation that, in principle, a budget guidance path should first be followed before proceeding with a collective debt regime?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u21	Mrs Uyttersprot, the most important finding with regard to the collective debt settlement procedure is that it is administratively cumbersome and therefore a major workload for all concerned, namely the court, the debt intermediary, the creditors and the debtor. That is why I have included in my policy plan the simplification and digitisation of the procedure. The first step was to give the legal mandate for the creation and management of a digital register and a ditto procedure to the national courts in the potpourri-IV Act of 25 December 2016. In the coming weeks, I will submit to the government and Parliament a draft law which will form the legal basis for a digitised collective debt settlement procedure. The ballings are now taking the necessary steps for the realisation of that project. The register will be launched this year. In addition to administrative simplification, it will also bring significant cost savings and reduce costs for all stakeholders, including the debtor. A more in-depth evaluation may well take place some time after that. This platform will provide us with much more information to make a more quality evaluation. There has been no organised consultation with the Regions, but the platform will allow, for example, the OCMWs to help the debtor with the application of a collective debt settlement, de facto and immediately from their offices, when the debtor is with them. Together with the debtor's consent, those accompanying the debtor can also have online insights into the entire file. The idea of determining admission conditions, which are 'tracking a prior budget guidance', does not convince me immediately because I think that even someone who has not followed such a route but is in a plight of debt should have access to the protection aspects of the procedure. He or she must be able to stop the recovery costs spiral. What I agree with is that although the legal procedure offers protection and allows a way out of the situation, this is often not enough. A social education and mentoring course is often appropriate. The fact that the debtor, together with the social support of the OCMWs, for example, has access to the entire file will make such guidance much easier on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u22	Mr President, I am delighted to hear that the draft law will be submitted to the Council of Ministers for further discussion in the near future. Digitisation is a huge step in the right direction, with indeed a number of advantages, especially the reduction of administrative workload, but also cost savings. This saving is, of course, very relevant to those already in debt. Transparency between those who are in debt and the lawyers also seems to me to be the issue. We know that the majority of debt intermediaries are doing a tremendously good job, but this week there was still the unfortunate incident of a lawyer who apparently managed to get EUR 125 000 out of her clients' accounts. This is particularly painful, especially because it concerns people with financial problems. Digitalisation will certainly improve transparency. Hopefully, this will also help to get things out of the world. We look forward to your design.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-24-54-commissie-ic804x.u23	Question No 23191 by Mrs Özlem Özen is postponed.
