ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u1	Question No 26634 by Mrs Cassart-Mailleux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u2	Mrs. Dierick can't be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u3	Mr Minister, you are undoubtedly aware of the problem of Ryanair's refusal to pay a flat-rate compensation for cancelled flights during the strike of 10 August 2018. However, I would like to refer once again to Regulation No. 261/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 establishing common rules on compensation and assistance to air passengers in the event of denied boarding and cancellation or long delay of flights, which obliges air carriers to offer passengers of a cancelled flight the choice between a new flight or the reimbursement of the cancelled flight. The passenger may also request an additional flat-rate compensation of 250 to 600 euros in case of cancellation, depending on the distance of the flight, except if the cancellation is notified at least two weeks before the scheduled departure time or if a place is offered in the event of a slight delay on another flight to the destination which closely corresponds to the original flight in terms of departure and arrival time. However, the air carrier should not pay the compensation if there is force majeure, such as political instability, difficult weather conditions and security risks. On 10 August 2018, Ryanair was suspended, which meant that approximately a hundred flights to and from Belgium were cancelled. The passengers whose flight was cancelled were given the opportunity between booking a new flight or reimbursement of their flight. However, Ryanair refuses to pay the flat-rate compensation of the flights on the grounds that a strike of its own personnel is a case of force majeure. The European Consumer Centre and Test-Achats also dispute the view of Ryanair. According to them, a strike of its own personnel is not a case of force majeure and therefore Ryanair should pay the flat-rate compensation for the cancelled flights. First, the strike of Ryanair's own staff falls within the definition of force majeure, as laid down in Regulation No. 261/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 establishing common rules on compensation and assistance to air passengers in the event of denied boarding and cancellation or long delay of flights? Secondly, if the answer to the first question is positive, what steps will you, as Minister, take to ensure payment of the flat-rate compensation to passengers for the cancelled flights during the strike of 10 August 2018? In other words, will you join in bourgeois parties? Mr Minister, my third question was not in my written question, but I shall nevertheless ask it. Apparently, the inhabitants of our country have a year to apply for such a flat-rate compensation. That period would be two years abroad, in our neighbouring countries and in Europe. Can you explain, if possible, it may also be written afterwards, if the answer is not prepared, why this time limit is not the same as in the neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u4	Mr President, Mrs Lijnen, as you know, I have already taken several initiatives to encourage Ryanair to comply promptly with the rules. For example, in the context of the July staff strikes, I sent a letter to the CEO of this airline. I asked for confirmation that passengers' rights would be respected, including the right to compensation. In my opinion, a strike on its own personnel should not be automatically decided on the existence of exceptional circumstances. In April, the European Court of Justice delivered another judgment in which a wild strike of its staff was not to be regarded as such. In its reply, Ryanair contests this view. It will, of course, ultimately be the court responsible for deciding on this matter. As you will be aware, Test-Achats has brought cases to justice on behalf of the various consumers. The Economic Inspectorate did not find any infringement of the necessary information to the consumer in respect of these cancelled flights. However, this is independent of the assessment of the legality of the alleged reason for refusing compensation. It is the FPS Mobility that is responsible for the follow-up to the European Regulation on Passenger Rights. That is why I also sent a letter to the Minister for Mobility on 28 September asking them to investigate the practices of Ryanair. It is up to him to determine whether coercive measures can or should be taken in this matter. The Economic Inspectorate has not committed any infringement of economic law. You had an additional question about the limitation periods, as did Mrs Lalieux, by the way. I will discuss this issue in depth with both the Minister for Mobility and the Minister for Justice. I will inform you as soon as possible, especially if your information is correct that there are different limitation periods in the different countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will also address the Minister for Mobility, asking what he will do. I understand that this case is no longer covered by economic law. This is, of course, a pity for the passengers who were stranded and still want compensation. I hope Test Purchasing is a success for the judge. It would be an important signal if a minister could have been you, but also the Minister of Mobility would have taken part in bourgeois parties. That would be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u6	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, Ryanair's aggressive policy towards its passengers is probably overtaken only by its policy towards its staff. Proof of this is the recent letter sent to customers whose flights were to take place after November 1, 2018. While they had already purchased their plane ticket, the passengers were required to pay a surcharge for their cabin baggage, which was included in the price at the time the ticket was purchased. If the customers refused this additional cost, Ryanair proposed to cancel and refund the airline ticket. This refusal was to be served within 14 days, failing which Ryanair assumed that the consumer's silence was equivalent to his acceptance of the additional cost. In other words, Ryanair considers that it is authorised to unilaterally modify one of the essential conditions of the valid contract, to presume the consumer's agreement to such an amendment and to terminate a contract in the event of a refusal to do so. Such an attitude is in total contradiction with the principles of the right to consumer protection, and more specifically with Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 September 2008 laying down common rules for the operation of air services in the Community, which requires, inter alia, that "optional price supplements shall be communicated in a clear, transparent and unequivocal manner". It is clear that the additional cost that Ryanair is attempting to impose on its customers does not in any way meet these legal requirements. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that this issue was tabled in early September. Minister, have your services been informed of this new Ryanair tariff policy? Do you consider it acceptable? Do you intend to remind Ryanair of its obligation to respect the rules of European law? I know that it has been done, minister, but I would like you to tell me, today, what the situation is. What remedies are available to the travellers concerned? In short, I would like to know exactly what is happening following your announcement in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u7	Mr Minister, air carrier Ryanair has amended its general terms and conditions. An important change concerns the clause which states that any debt between the passenger and Ryanair should henceforth be settled by an Irish court. This, of course, means an additional hurdle for consumers to assert their rights to society. Consumer organisations are therefore threatening to take legal action, claiming that this clause is contrary to the law. Ryanair argues, for its part, that an exception is provided for the airlines in international law, which allows this clause. Minister, what is your position on the legality of this new jurisdiction clause? Are you considering measures against Ryanair? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u8	Mr President, as soon as I was informed of Ryanair's new baggage tariff policy, I asked the Economic Inspectorate to analyse the matter. The conclusion is clear: imposing this new rate on passengers who had previously booked an air ticket is a unilateral amendment to the contract. This is inadmissible. That is why I contacted the airline on 4 September. Two days later, Ryanair confirmed to me that the new conditions will only be applied to passengers who purchased their plane ticket after the announcement of those new conditions. As far as the competence clause is concerned, I have addressed the competent European Commissioner and asked him to take an initiative to refine or clarify European law in this area, so that this can be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u9	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. I imagine that there was no supplement and that no complaint was made to the SPF Economy regarding supplements. At least that's what I suppose: I don't know and I ask for confirmation. It would be desirable for European legislation to be clarified, so that such unilateral changes in contracts by companies that mistreat both their customers and their staff are no longer possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u10	If I am not mistaken, Minister, I have not been given an answer to my question on the complaints that must now be brought before an Irish court.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u11	I did not answer your question in full, for which I apologise. It is also perfectly possible for us to file a complaint or file with a Belgian court. There is therefore no obligation to go to an Irish court.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u12	If it is clear to us, I hope it will be clear to Ryanair as well. In future, we will see where that stands. If necessary, I'll come back with a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u13	Minister, the current members of the Accounting Standards Commission were appointed with the Royal Decree of 25 April 2013 for a term of six years. Article 5 of the Law of 12 December 2016, with a KB of amendment of 3 September 2017, automatically put an end to these mandates. The current members shall continue to exercise their mandate until they are replaced. An appeal was brought against the amending law of 12 December 2016 by Michel De Wolf at the Constitutional Court. This case is still pending. I assumed that the exchange of mandates would be delayed until a ruling was reached by the Constitutional Court. By the end of June 2018, the Centrale Raad voor het Bedrijfsleven received a letter to pass on by 3 July 2018 the names of the four representatives concerning the replacement of the members of the Committee for Accounting Standards. Why is there such a sudden rush to replace the current mandatars? Would it not be better to wait until after a possible judgment of the Constitutional Court that can provide more legal certainty about the fate of the Amending Law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u14	Mrs Detiège, incredibly, that is also something that concerns you, the Committee on Accounting Standards. Those are interesting and important organs. I was part of that when I was young. As you correctly state, by law of 12 December 2016, the mandates of the members of the Accounting Standards Committee were automatically terminated. In order to provide for their replacement, KB of 23 May 2018 laid down the rules to determine the language role of the candidate members. This decision was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 18 June 2018, after which I started the nomination procedure by letter dated 20 June 2018. In view of this time, it seemed reasonable to me to ask for candidates to be presented by 3 July 2018. This deadline was finally extended by me until 13 August. I can give you the happy message that all the candidates are now in and that we are now preparing the royal decision at high speed. It is therefore difficult to speak of a hasty replacement. It is more a patient wait until the applications were delivered by all the ministers and bodies that had to do so. Indeed, Mr De Wolf brought an action for annulment before the Constitutional Court against the Amending Law of 12 December 2016. One of the grounds for destruction which Mr De Wolf has invoked is the fact that he would be less likely to be re-appointed as a French speaker. That's not right. The new legislation merely provides that half of the Accounting Standards Committee must be composed of Dutch-speaking members and half of French-speaking members. This seems reasonable to me. Moreover, I can only observe that Mr De Wolf was re-designed as a member of the Committee on Accounting Standards. Apart from that, I am convinced that the new legislation is in line with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. On that basis, I can conclude that the problem has been solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u16	Minister, last summer I tabled a written question containing six questions. I only received an answer to one of my six questions. That is why I tabled them again as an oral question. The worst thing is that you referred me to the Minister for Mobility of the Länder for my fourth question, on who is following the recall action in Belgium. In Flanders that is Minister Weyts. I have, of course, had my Flemish counterpart put a question to Minister Weyts. You may or may not guess, but he in turn referred me to you. Don't you consult on that? Is the interpretation of the sixth state reform not clear? Would you perhaps refer me to Minister Bellot? In any case, it is a fact that we have been made aware of this by the European Commission. In addition, Recommendation No. 2 of the Dieselgate Committee specifically asked the federal government to ensure that recall actions are properly carried out. You, as the Minister for Consumer Affairs, should be aware of that. I'm looking forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u17	Mrs. Dedry, I think it is a very bizarre situation. I can only join you when you cast that a ping-pong game is useless. I have indeed, quite rightly, pointed out to the written question the powers and noted that the conformity tests fall within regional competence. As a result of your question, I will take the matter further to the attention of the House in order to clarify it. I will contact my colleagues in the regions very quickly to clarify the matter and provide you with an adequate response. After all, if I have the authority, I would be happy to take the matter further. Like you, I don't need anything. I'm also nervous about a ping-pong game, sending you from the locker to the wall. I am committed to resolving the matter very quickly. I do that in front of my administration, because she may not be aware of everything. Mr President, if that is all right with you, we will inform Mrs Dedry directly. Then she doesn't have to ask a new question. After all, I do not think it is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u18	Minister, I thank you for your very clear commitment and for the fact that you are now clearly putting Dieselgate's succession forward as a policy priority. After all, a man starts to doubt that in the long run. Meanwhile, we continue to suffer from non-compliant emissions. We also continue to suffer from very polluting cars and very dirty air, resulting in health problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u19	Minister, the number 070 344 344, better known as Card Stop, has been used since 1993 to allow consumers to block their payment cards in case of loss or theft. All banks use this service, which is managed by Atos Wordline, a company with a turnover of €1.6 billion in 2017 and a net profit of €150 million. Making Card Stop free is a legitimate consumer request because, basically, this number is akin to an emergency service. In general, bank charges are already too high for the consumer, and we will have a discussion on this subject soon. It is also an obligation for the user to notify the loss or theft of his bank card as soon as possible. Therefore, no costs should be charged. In our discussion of the 2017 General Policy Note, we agreed that the government would put an end to charging the client when he calls Card Stop. Minister De Croo had launched a public consultation on this issue in January 2018 through the IBPT. We passed a law amending and incorporating payment services provisions into various books of the Code of Economic Law, which came into force on 9 August 2018. Article 10 of the Law provides that the payment service provider issuing a payment instrument has an obligation to provide the payment service user with the possibility of having his credit card blocked free of charge. That's the law you've amended, minister. I am therefore surprised to read on the website of Card Stop the information according to which a call to the Card Stop number would today have a cost of 0.30 euro per minute, which Wordline charges through the telephone operator. The same information is notified at the beginning of the call when you call Card Stop. Minister, it was September. I ask you if this information is always accurate. If so, it should be corrected. Can you confirm to me that consumers today have the opportunity to block their payment instruments free of charge? If not, why, since the law has changed? What are the rates and terms of payment today? What about users outside the territory of Belgium? Indeed, it is above all extra muros that card thefts take place. Finally, what were the results of the consultation conducted by the IBPT on 18 January 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the national digitisation plan, the rate of EUR 0.30 per minute is the maximum rate that operators can charge for a national call to a number 070. The Code of Economic Law provides that the consumer must have the opportunity to notify the loss, misappropriation or theft of his card free of charge. In order to adapt the Card Stop number tariff to this free-of-charge requirement and without changing the number that users have known for 25 years, an amendment to the law is required. The good news, I hope for all of us, is that with my colleague Minister De Croo, we have drawn up a proposal to include this adaptation in the law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications. The draft law will shortly be submitted to the Council of Ministers by Minister De Croo, under a Telecom law containing various provisions. Mrs Lalieux, I hope that you will therefore be more positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u21	Minister, I hear the good news: I hope that Minister De Croo will introduce the law shortly. You wrote it yourself in the Code of Economic Law, Minister. If the free entry into force is announced on August 9, 2018, it must be effective for the consumer. Otherwise, it would be false publicity on the part of the government. Apparently, you didn't properly assess the electronic communications law. It's good that Mr. De Croo completes this law. I hope it'll be before the end of the year. We will then respect our own legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u22	Mr President, Minister, in its competition policy, the European Commission has launched an offensive against online vertical price fixing. This means that a brand imposes on its retailers the minimum prices they have to sell the goods. Competition law prohibits this. It is detrimental to the consumer because it deprives him of the possibility of buying cheaper goods. In the meantime, the European Commission has made this a priority. In the Netherlands, people are wondering what the ACM is going to do, because it previously pursued a cautious policy. They also believe that consumers can benefit in some cases, as this leads to, for example, a better service or new providers on the market. The question now also arises in our country about the Belgian Competition Authority. Will it adapt its policy to the European path?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gantois, in relation to the distribution sector and its relationship with suppliers, the Belgian Competition Authority can confirm that it will pay particular attention to vertical contracts in its policy of priorities for the year 2018 and also for the following years. I refer to the priority policy and quote: "The contracts between the distribution sector and suppliers may in some cases lead to restrictive effects on competition between chains or between suppliers, for example, when they restrict the freedom of distributors to set their prices, or the possibility to offer their services online. The Belgian Competition Authority pays particular attention to these contracts." In this context, the Belgian Competition Authority conducted searches in 2016, 2017 and 2018. As a competent minister, I cannot, of course, provide any further information on this, firstly, because I do not have it, and secondly, because the Belgian Competition Authority conducts that investigation independently and communicates it at the appropriate time, when the decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u24	Minister, you understand our scepticism. We must pay close attention to this and take firm action. The Belgian Competition Authority must do its job. Such practices are detrimental to consumers. Europe has already imposed a number of fines on companies that violated the rules. We must ensure that such practices do not become a habit in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u25	Question No 26820 by Mr Blanchart is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u26	Mr Minister, the swine fever is caused by our country. The problem arises in the far south of the province of Luxembourg. The disease has only been found in wild boars, not in the pig population. However, the pigmeat sector is experiencing major consequences of the disease. I am not talking about the measures already taken by various governments to prevent further spread, but about the effects on exports, both outside and within the European Union. As far as exports outside the European Union are concerned, trade agreements with, for example, China, South Korea or Russia stipulate that our country must be free of swine fever in order to export our meat there. However, our country is not currently free of swine fever. So these export opportunities are going to go away. There can be no discussion about this. Exports within the European Union, accounting for 89% of total Belgian exports of pigmeat, are also failing. Although there is free movement of goods within the European Union, several foreign buyers of our pig meat would use swine fever to stop taking meat, or only at very reduced prices. That is harsh, because the pig farmers who are a few hundred kilometres away from the infection harbor are also financially affected, even if there is no sanitary problem there. The meat is not contaminated and there is no problem for public health. Minister, how do you assess the situation? What measures will you take to safeguard exports, both within and outside the European Union, both in the short and in the long term? Was the problem discussed at European level? Has the situation been raised in the European Chain Consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u27	Mr Gantois, the export of pigmeat is essential for the pig sector. More than 70% of net production, the number of live pigs entering the transformation chain, is destined for export. In 2017, these exports represented 57% of Belgian meat exports and 6% of total food exports; 90% of these exports are destined for Member States of the European Union, 10% are exported to other regions of the world. Exports to 17 countries............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the meantime, two countries, India and Malaysia, have partially lifted their embargo. Of the total exports of pigmeat, these destinations represented only 5,7% of the value in 2017. However, given that the market is currently very tense, with a production price currently well below the 2017 price, the closure of these markets is worrying. The latest prices at slaughterhouses on the Belgian market are already showing a downward trend. In addition, private European importers could choose not to import from Belgium and turn to other European countries for their supplies. Initiatives were taken by the Foreign Office. From the start of the crisis, all diplomatic posts were provided with official information prepared by the BFSA on the situation of African swine fever in Belgium and the measures taken to prevent and eradicate it. These diplomatic posts have taken steps with the relevant authorities of their district in order to inform and reassure these trading partners. During our visit to China last week, we also tried to put that on the table. This was also discussed when the Chinese Prime Minister and the Minister for Economic Affairs were here. I also met the pig sector before I traveled to China to talk to them about that. Secondly, both Minister Ducarme and the regional agriculture ministers have been in regular contact with the European Commission to examine the possibilities for cofinancing and compensation, both in relation to the measures and the damage suffered. For more specific information, I must of course refer you to my colleagues responsible for agriculture. Thirdly, the European Chain Consultation is a private initiative, you know that, but if we are well informed, this issue has not yet been discussed there. The organisations concerned are free to raise this point. We are, of course, following that very closely, as far as my powers are concerned, and we are trying to do everything we can to deal with this in a good way and to get that export back on its feet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u28	Mr President, Minister, it is clear that we are all very concerned about this problem. I know that a number of Member States have already made a great deal of effort to discuss this issue. You're also talking to the Chinese about this. I hope that this will also have a result, because it is not enough to talk, we really need to achieve results. However, I am concerned that this has not yet been discussed at European level, in the Ketensverloging. I would like to ask Belgium to insist on this. Flanders lives very hard on the agricultural side of the pig sector. We are exporting pork for a value of EUR 1.7 billion. That's the amount on our exports. It is therefore very important that this be discussed at the European Chain Consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u29	Minister, intermediaries and intermediaries pay their membership of the FSMA in the form of an annual contribution. We have recently seen enough examples of forced closure of independent bank and insurance agents, for example by restructuring their principal. They are obliged to pay the annual contribution, even though they stopped their activity during the year and have formally requested their deletion from the FSMA list. The government is taking particularly favourable measures for the benefit of the self-employed and entrepreneurs. This morning we approved a draft in the Committee on Industry. In any case, it is now an ideal opportunity to do something for that category of self-employed. I would like to inform you whether the FSMA contribution cannot be charged pro rata, at least in the event of exceptional circumstances, such as forced closure, so that the aforementioned injured parties are not charged unnecessary costs on top of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u30	Mr Klaps, I'm open to everything. I'll give you some more information on where the calf may be bound. In accordance with Article 56 of the Law of 2 August 2002 on the supervision of the financial sector and financial services, the operating costs of the FSMA shall be borne by the undertakings and persons under its supervision or whose operations or products are under its supervision, within the limits and detailed rules laid down by the King. The provision is implemented by the Royal Decree of 17 May 2012 on the remuneration of the operating costs of the FSMA. The Royal Decree lays down all the conditions for the calculation and collection of the contributions. The basic modalities are the same for all companies and persons under the supervision of the FSMA and leave no room for interpretation. All undertakings and persons under the supervision of the FSMA shall pay a sectoral contribution in accordance with what is stipulated in that KB. The contribution shall consist of a predetermined percentage of the total budget of the FSMA for the year in question. The sectoral contribution shall be allocated to all undertakings and persons under the supervision of the FSMA on 1 January of the year, as set out in that Royal Decree. In other words, the method of calculation laid down by Royal Decree excludes a contribution on a pro rata basis. You would have understood that too, otherwise you would not have asked that question. The legal procedure shall also ensure that the FSMA has at the beginning of each year of operation the means necessary to carry out its supervisory tasks. As the Royal Decree of 17 May 2012 instructs the FSMA to work with a closed sectoral contribution system, the application of the payments is, of course, a problem. This could lead to an under-financing of the FSMA. I have also been informed that other independent public organisations such as the BIPT and the CREG do not apply a system pro rata either. So the problem you're raising is even bigger than just the FSMA. Article 3 of the Royal Decree provides for a general payment period of one month for the payment of the various contributions. Upon expiry of the deadline, the FSMA shall send a payment reminder. Specifically for intermediaries, the applicable legislation provides that the FSMA is to set a final formal deadline of 30 days. Only then will the registration lapse. It follows that any loss of registration does not occur immediately. De facto, therefore, an intermediary always has at least 60 days to pay the payment. In 2018, an intermediary in the banking or insurance sector will pay a contribution of EUR 538 for the annual supervision of the relevant sector to the FSMA. Moreover, the payment in the current state of the legislation is tax deductible. Finally, the FSMA sends more than twenty thousand payment invitations annually. The calculation and follow-up of this work is already a labour-intensive work. If different payment facilities were possible, the FSMA would have to allocate additional resources to this end. However, the maximum number of employees of the FSMA is legally limited, resulting in the resources that the FSMA can allocate to its supervisory tasks. Allow me to list the different elements. First of all, I would like to mention the closed envelope system. Secondly, the FSMA is not the only one that works that way. Thirdly, this may require payment adjustments. However, I would like to re-examine the impact of this on the FSMA. Assuming that it is not about a large number of intermediaries, this impact may be limited. If that is looked at further, I propose that we also examine the possible repercussions of a pro-rata system for the BIPT and the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer. I am, of course, aware of the legislation on which the system is based. As far as the annual contribution is concerned, I believe that the legislation can be improved. The argument that it is only EUR 538 is very hard for those who have to stop their life's work and remain with a great socially passive and limited potential for the future, as that invoice will be able to recover. That this requires such a great deal of follow-up at the FSMA, in the current times of electronic payments with structured communications, I dare to question somewhat. So it is indeed possible to look at what is possible in this area, because I do not think that it is a very high amount of money. In addition, we can still go back to the code of conduct agreed with the banks. We could include in the code of conduct that if an agency is terminated, it will be taken into account with the collection fee, which will also remove the problem for the FSMA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u32	Mr Minister, it appears from a study carried out by Test-Achats that the fees charged in Belgium for the refinancing of a mortgage are far too high compared to other European countries. Indeed, the association has established that Belgian consumers who wish to change their mortgage to take a cheaper mortgage from another institution pay an average fee 13 times higher than in other countries. A petition was launched to reduce these costs to the European average. Reducing the cost of refinancing a mortgage loan contracted for the acquisition of its own home would be a social measure and would have many benefits for the consumer. It would increase the consumer's purchasing power. It would allow for greater competition between credit institutions. It would help to clean up the mortgage market – let us remember the subprime crisis. Finally, it would give consumers greater flexibility to cope with the hazards of life, possibly by extending the duration of the loan and reducing monthly payments. I know, of course, that some of these costs fall within the competence of the Regions. But the federal government also has a role to play. For example, the employment allowance, the notary fees (which I have already discussed a lot with the Minister of Justice), the administrative fees, the mortgage curator's fees and the VAT on notaries are all positions on which you and your colleagues can act. Mr President, if there are three questions attached, it is because I have asked the same question to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance, but they have redirected it to the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u33	It's a group shot.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u34	Mr Minister, I therefore hope that you will respond on all points, including those that fall within the competence of your colleagues. The government must act collectively. Apparently, solidarity falls on you. Minister, have you read the Test-Achats study and confirmed these price differences between Belgium and neighbouring countries? They're gross. Have you worked together at the federal government level to reduce these costs? Are measures planned? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u35	Mrs Lalieux, I work day and night looking for solutions. I obviously learned of the study carried out by Test-Achats. The cost of bill charges for refinancing is at first glance much higher in Belgium. But I must point out that the comparison with neighbouring countries is more complicated. The most important criticism from Test-Achats relates to the fee and tax burden associated with refinancing. On average, these costs would be 13 times higher than abroad. That's a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u36	That's a lot!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u37	You're absolutely right. That's a lot! However, the concrete methodology used by Test-Achats to make this comparison is not clear. Test-Achats would have made a comparison between eight European countries. The letter mentions a total amount for these countries but the components of these totals are not included. We cannot therefore know whether Test-Achats has taken into account all the costs of neighbouring countries. Consideration should also be given to other elements that have an impact on this cost, such as the different tax advantages associated with the purchase of real estate. It is necessary to see to what extent these tax benefits are present in all neighbouring countries and for what amount. It is therefore very difficult to answer your question simply. We must also take into account our real estate taxation, which is different between our three regions. At the federal level and within the scope of my powers, I have taken steps to limit the cost of refinancing a mortgage. Indeed, since February 2017, a royal decree fixes, on my initiative, a maximum amount of the file fees that can be claimed as part of a refinancing of a loan by a bank. In the case of refinancing in a new lender, the costs are up to EUR 500. In the case of refinancing at the same lender, the costs shall not exceed 50 % of this amount, i.e. EUR 250, unless it is refinancing within 12 months of a previous refinancing. This is a maximum file fee. Real costs are often lower. The employment allowance has already been limited by law. Under no circumstances may it exceed three months' interest. The assertion of Test-Achats that, relatively, tax and deed charges are the most important costs seems correct to me. Tax is by far the most important item of expenditure, especially with regard to registration fees. The fees of notaries and mortgage custodians are also important items. For more details or information on taxation, I refer you to my federal and regional colleagues responsible for finance. With respect to notary fees, I contacted the Minister of Justice who told me that he was planning to reform notary fees to better reflect their efforts. Mrs Lalieux, I have the feeling that you are less positive in this matter than in your previous question. In any case, I agree with you that something needs to be done, particularly with regard to the two positions mentioned above, namely the fees of notaries and mortgage custodians. In fact, I am trying to convince my colleagues of the need to "drink" on this matter. In any case, I hope that a solution can be found to reduce the cost of doing business while nuanced things. Indeed, if 13 times the bill fee is a lot, ten times the bill fee, it still remains a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u38	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. You will indeed have to organize the file because my questions have not been accepted by the Departments of Finance and Justice. In any case, they do not want to answer all my questions which concern them and which relate, in particular, to notary fees. I am not going to discuss with you the reform of notaries drawn up by your colleague and which I think is totally unsatisfactory. So let's talk more about topics that fall within your jurisdiction. So, for example, when there is no possibility of buying a loan because it costs too much, the customer becomes captive. Your government is a right-wing Liberal government. I therefore do not understand why, from the moment the sector is fully liberalized, you do not make more competition between banking institutions and you do not take steps to make customers less captive by reducing the cost of refinancing loans. Moreover, since you fully agree with me and want to work – I feel your desire, Deputy Prime Minister – I will therefore be very positive. A motion for a resolution will be taken into consideration no later than next week. I am counting on you, since these are demands from the government and this government needs to talk to each other and you need to talk to your colleagues, to ensure that they meet the legitimate demands of consumers and to respond to the fact that refinancing a loan is far too expensive in Belgium, which makes customers captive and creates difficulties within households.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u39	Could I have this motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u40	I'll send it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u41	Minister, on a regular basis, citizens are confronted with phone calls from gaiters or teleprospectors. I lived the case last night. Whether for the purpose of selling contracts for energy, telephone or other operators, these repeated calls are often similar to harassment. In the event that the numbers of these call centres appear, it is easy, with the current mobile phones, to block them so as not to be disturbed in the future. In order to counter this manoeuvre, these companies use masked numbers that make them undetectable and it is impossible to send them to the "unwelcome users" of our smartphones. In order to allow citizens to freely choose whether or not to respond to these often intrusive commercial approaches, these companies should agree to work on "uncovered face". Minister, could you suggest to these companies in the telephone stalling sector that they work more transparently with their prospects?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u42	Mr Flahaux, there is no telemarketing sector. Companies either start up with their own staff or use external service providers. Moreover, intrusive sales interviews often come from abroad. For these two reasons, an action as you propose is not at all obvious. Some telecom operators offer their customers the possibility of blocking anonymous calls. I believe that this could be a useful means for the consumer. For more detailed information on this subject, I would refer you to the Minister responsible for telecommunications, Mr. From Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answer, although I feel a little frustrated. I still ask myself a lot of questions because the case I personally experienced involved a state-owned company, called Proximus. She knew very well that I was a cable and internet subscriber at the Voo operator, who is also parapublic. The agent on the phone could tell me all the types of subscriptions I had with competitors! I find this to be, to say the least, special. In this context, I will re-examine Minister Alexander De Croo on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u44	Mr Minister, the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises is a database that stores all the basic data of companies and establishment units using the company number. The objective should be to simplify administrative procedures for businesses through a one-off notification and data transmission. The database should also make it easier for control bodies to control companies. Companies must pay a contribution for this registration. This amounts to 87 euros in our country. This is significantly more expensive than, for example, in the Netherlands, where registration in the Trade Register costs 50 euros, which the Dutch government believes is sufficient to cover the costs. When entrepreneurs want to have certain services carried out, our KBO also lacks a transparent price overview. This is also different with the Dutch Trade Register, where clear and transparent communication about the cost price is made. In addition, in a 2015 report of the Court of Auditors, the KBO did not score enough on the quality of the data contained in it. The excessively strict regulation of the import and adaptation of data would be an important factor in this. In addition, many public administrations still use alternative sources of information to collect business data. This does not sufficiently achieve the objective of the FBO, in particular a simple administration for companies and sufficient control by the public authorities. Especially for our SMEs, the provision of services through the FBO is crucial. How do you explain the high cost of registration in the KBO compared to a similar registration in our neighbouring countries? Do you see possibilities to reduce this cost? What is your position on a more transparent overview of the cost of services offered by the FBO? Has an initiative been taken since 2015 to respond to the comments of the Court of Auditors on the functioning of the CJU? If so, what initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u45	In comparison with the Netherlands, Mr Janssen, you must always be careful not to compare apples with pears. The question is, after all, what kind of information is given for what amount and I think there are some differences in this respect with regard to the Netherlands, in that we are doing more than the Netherlands. Having said that, several initiatives have been taken, which you have also mentioned in your question, also in connection with the Court of Auditors' comment on the operation of the CEDEFOP. I'd like to go over these with you. There is the start-up of the KBO+ project. KBO+ should ensure that the process of depositing private and authentic instruments of companies and legal persons can be carried out by notaries and business offices in a fully digital way. Moreover, the data from the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises will be made completely contrary to third parties, making the CBO the only genuine source of business data. In recent months, the basic principles of the new system and the new processes have been established. It was determined how much resources are needed for its realization. A detailed study led to a plan of approach, and will be used as a guide in the later implementation of the system and the installation of the new processes. A budget of 2.1 million is allocated for 2019 for the start-up of the project and for the realisation of the first part of the project. In concrete terms, this budget will adapt the existing e-griffie portal so that the business premises could use the portal and test it in a pilot phase. The processes for registration and changes in the KBO are made more transparent. A new private search application was developed. Through this application, the entrepreneur or the mandated person can consult all the data of his company in a user-friendly way and edit or register certain data of his company himself. If an entrepreneur wishes to modify one of the data that he cannot change himself, a flow will refer it to the correct initiator. Adjustments to be made by the management service of the FBO are now being transmitted and handled electronically. The company's reputation was increased. The launch of the new private search application was accompanied by an information campaign aimed at promoting the new application and increasing the awareness of the KBO. This has led entrepreneurs who consult their data in the FBO to take the necessary actions to correctly disclose their data. The awareness of the KBO among local authorities was also increased. In collaboration with the Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities, l'Union des Villes et Communes de Wallonie and Brussels-Capital, information sessions on the KBO were organised for local authorities in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. Finally, the quality of KBO data has been further improved by connecting the KBO with other European business registers. In addition, specific quality actions will be launched either at the initiative of the management department of the KBO or at the request of other administrations. Attention shall also be paid to the training and information of originators and data managers. I may not have answered one question yet, in particular the question concerning the determination of the amount of registration right in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises. I kept that to the last, because I have to say here that this is a competence of the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. So I will not speak wisely about this, because he would have to do it, which is not correct with regard to my colleague. As far as the amount is concerned, you will have to address Minister Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive reply. I note that a lot of things have been done during this period of government and that there are still a lot of things on the agenda for further implementation in 2019. I think our SMEs can be very satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u47	Mr President, we have been able to follow the debate in the press and in Parliament. On the positive side, the risk of power cut-off has been substantially reduced, but there have been many questions that have still not been answered clearly. Hence the question. Suppose there is a power shortage in the future, what then? There was a switch-off plan that would come into effect in the event of extreme distress. In some municipalities the power would be switched off for three to four hours. There was talk that this would happen around 17:00, the evening pits for families with children. Electric fires would neither work nor microwave ovens nor ordinary ovens. Also the electric floor heating would no longer work. There would be no internet for school tasks and electric water pumps would not function. There would also be no more hot water available to wash the children after school time. So there were legitimate questions from people about what would happen next. The government has divided Belgium into eight zones or discs for switching off the electricity grid. If the switch-off plan should go into addition, then the electricity will be switched off first in disc 8. If the deficit is still too large, then also disk 7 is switched off and so on. In order to know as a citizen whether one lives in the affected zone, one has to look at which distribution system operator his municipality belongs to. Moreover, it is also necessary to check whether or not the street is exempted. I think about my experience as a pharmacist. If, for health reasons, electricity is needed at any time, for example in the case of more and more frequent sleep apnea or in the case of young children who need aerosol dispensers, something which is also very frequent, then it seems that you should contact the municipal administration yourself. I am also impressed by the fact that this is separate from the switch-off plan, which is wasteing a great deal of light in industrial zones and on motorways. In cities, too, there is an enormous amount of useless energy consumption. I think about all the lights. We both live in Antwerp. When I enter the city, I see Charlemagne High School, a very nice new building. However, I wonder if it is really necessary to have empty buildings as a fag light... I don't know how to describe it, but it reminds me of Frank Deboosere with his bike helmet in the week. Sometimes that's really overly enlightened. I have some questions for you. In what way are citizens informed, in the case of a power cut-off, of what disk they belong to? How long will citizens be informed about the power cut in their drive, so that they can prepare enough? For health reasons, people who constantly need electricity must contact the local government in advance. How will they be informed of this responsibility? Are sufficient measures being taken to avoid personal tragedies? Are hospitals and other necessary services guaranteed exemption from the exit plan if they are in the affected zone? Electric cars, buses and trams cannot be charged during the time of the power cut. Do you have a visual on the impact of this? If a problem of power shortage would occur for several days, whether or not following each other, is it the same people from disk 8 that are affected or is there provision for a variety? Finally, will the necessary lighting in industrial areas, cities, buildings and offices be eliminated first in times of power shortage before hitting citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Detiège, I hope that after my reply you will be reassured. A risk of activation of the shutdown plan can be detected up to seven days in advance. From that moment on, being D-7, every effort is made to avoid this activation by sensitization and by issuing prohibition measures. If these sensitisation and measures do not bear fruit, and the likelihood of an effective deficit arises, citizens will be informed in the evening on Day D-1 at a press conference of the relevant Energy and Economy Ministers, as well as on Day D, at a press conference around noon. The information will be transmitted through all media channels, social media and websites of the FPS Economy, and no doubt other intermediaries will also pass this information on to Elia, distribution system operators and so on. The crisis number 1771 is also open to all questions at that time. In order to ensure proper and proactive management of an emergency at local level, it is also essential that mayors manage the different local consequences of electricity scarcity, including the aspects linked to public health. They are obliged to use all the necessary resources in this context. During the federal management of an activation of the switch-off plan, one of the mayor's assignments is to monitor the situation of persons who, for health reasons, have to stay at home on their territory. If necessary, the Mayor may rely on the medical actors active on his territory to obtain the necessary information on the location of this target audience. If necessary, it may also take certain specific preventive measures to ensure that a shutdown cannot cause damage. In addition, the mayor may also address the governor to request more staffing and resources for his territory, in order to carry out this task as efficiently as possible. In the case of manual activation of the switching plan due to an effective deficiency, general and psychiatric hospitals and emergency call management centres, 112, 100 and 101, are always supplied with electricity, even if they are in a shutdown disc. Should their power supply be interrupted, along with that of the other users supplied by a switched-off power booth, these priority users will immediately be refueled. Other services located in an affected area should take preventive measures which are necessary in the event of a possible shutdown. It is the responsibility of those services to define measures based on their own situation. In Flanders, Zorgnet and the Flemish Agency for Health and Health have jointly prepared a document to support the preparation of a possible switch-off within institutions such as rest homes and psychiatric care institutions. The impact on electric mobility can be seen in the light of the fact that it helps to level the peak in electricity demand. During the hours prior to an announced switch-off, the batteries of electric cars and buses can be charged preventively. The cut-off procedure in the event of a power shortage provides for a rotation system between the switchable disks in descending order. If the switch-off plan should be activated several times or days after each other in one year, a turn-off shall be applied in descending order. Let me give you an example. If disk 8 was switched off on Monday and there is another power shortage on Tuesday, then disk 7 is chosen. If a few weeks later you would have to switch again, you will switch to disk 6, then to disk 5 and so on. If the transmission system operator detects and notifys a threat of scarcity to the government, the OFF ON campaign will be launched, sensitising citizens and businesses to reduce their energy demand by, for example, switching off unnecessary lighting. This will ensure that all public buildings set a good example to citizens and private companies by saving on their electricity demand. This includes the deafening of interior and exterior lighting of the buildings. The transmission system operator shall monitor the results of this saving on electricity demand. If it demonstrates that the savings due to awareness measures are not sufficiently large, prohibitions may be imposed, including for non-necessary lighting. It is really intended that the switch-off plan will only be activated as a last resort if demand-restricting measures prove insufficient. Now it will be clear whether you are more comfortable after the answer I have given you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u49	Minister, I had asked a lot of questions and you replied clearly on every point. That reassures me. There is one other point that I would like to mention because I have been in practice for years. People don't always read the newspapers and they don't always hear what's said in the press. Moreover, people with medical problems are usually not mobile and are sometimes not good with what is happening around them. If this is ever to be dealt with effectively, extra attention must be paid to it and, if necessary, informed through the medical operators. However, I am satisfied with your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u50	Debates of the European Parliament 27131 by Mrs Dierick is postponed as she is apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u51	Minister, you told us a while ago that you intend to do something about this problem. As you know, the price of health or life insurance, such as debt balance insurance, is based on risk profiles of the persons to be insured. An important element in this risk assessment is, of course, the medical file of the candidate author of such insurance. The insurance should not become more expensive for people who were once ill or who are suffering from a condition that is under control, you put in the press following the Day against Cancer. They have the right to be forgotten, so the reporting obligation for certain diseases would expire. That message came as a thunderbolt to the clear sky. In the meantime, we discussed it in committee on another draft law, and you said at that time that you would come up with a draft law on this subject, but my question was, of course, already put forward. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. For which diseases would the notification no longer be necessary? If the reporting of a particular disease is still necessary, how will the interpretation of the concept of "under control" be interpreted? I think that will be the great pain in drafting the texts, but I would like to hear how you see it and how you would like to amend the law exactly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u52	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, this is not the first time I have asked you about this. We had a debate in committee two weeks ago; we will probably still have it in plenary tomorrow. Access to property is important for citizens. Not only because the Belgians have a brick in their belly, but also because the property works as a guarantee. It enables pensioners to fight poverty and to have a satisfactory standard of living. It is therefore essential to remove barriers to access to property. These obstacles certainly include the too high level of outstanding balance insurance premiums, particularly for sick people. For them, it's really double punishment and even triple punishment. They have to cope with the disease and suffer a significant drop in income as they leave their jobs. But even though they are cured they continue to bear the stigma of the disease, in any case for the insurers. In France, there is what is called the right to be forgotten for people with an increased health risk. Cancer patients no longer have to report it to the insurer ten years later, five years later if the cancer was discovered before the age of 18. There is also a reference grid of pathologies and time limits beyond which a person who has suffered from it may have access to insurance without overprime or exclusion. This system works very well. It was set up following a consensus reached between the State, consumer representatives and representatives of insurers. The Socialist Group was the first to put the issue of outstanding balance insurance on Parliament's table, asking for a revision of the Partyka-Lalieux law – a law that had already improved the situation. Indeed, it is indecent that people who have had cancer and who, fortunately, have been able to cope with it, continue to pay surcharges – we speak of 800 % of surprimes – in order to gain access to the property or even to wipe out refusals on the part of the insurers. Mr Minister, we have learned that you too intend to support this idea, and to introduce, by the end of the year – it is time, we are on 15 November – a right to be forgotten in pay insurance that is still due, but also in terms of health insurance. That's a very good thing. We support you, Minister. However, I hope that this statement does not remain a dead letter. I hear the tone of Mr Klaps' question. It is true that the N-VA claimed that it was only political communication. We also heard Assuralia suggesting that bonuses increase for all; she had already said so in the Partyka-Lalieux law, and that was not true in reality. We are used to threatening exits from this sector in the event of reform! Mr Minister, the introduction of a right to be forgotten could be done very quickly. All you have to do is implement Article 212(2) of the Insurance Act. You could also use the contents of the AERAS Convention, which you know very well, which was negotiated in a time between the insurers' medical experts and consumer representatives, without any problem in a royal decree. Minister, what does your bill contain with respect to health care and balance insurance that remains due? How was this project developed? Which associations have you consulted? Has the dossier already been referred to the Council of Ministers, and with what result? Will the matter be debated in Parliament, and if so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u53	Mr Klaps and Mrs Lalieux, I can assure you once again that I have a draft law ready to implement the right to be forgotten in Belgian insurance legislation. This bill is inspired by the right to be forgotten in France. It was written following numerous consultations, including with the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer, Mutassur, Assuralia, the Cancer Registry Foundation, het Vlaams Patientenplatform and the SPF Economy. I personally attended a number of meetings in order to ensure that everyone correctly assesses the seriousness of the draft and that progress is also made on this dossier. That some people qualify as communication, let me say, but I hope that they too will do everything in their power to find a solution to this dossier in Belgium, because the people who are confronted with it are right to demand that it be resolved. I will not degrade myself to communication games in one direction or another; that would be terrible for the people about who it is. For all types of cancer, as in France, there will always be a right to be forgotten, in principle ten years after the end of active therapy. For other diseases, a time limit will be set by specialists, which will be included in a reference schedule. Because we also want to provide a solution for certain types of diabetes, further consultation is under way so that it will also fall within the scope of the law. It is intended to ensure, as is already the case in France, that it will apply to insurance linked to a credit. It is my intention to submit this bill to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks. Then, Mr President, I will gladly distribute the text to you and to all the members of our committee. I think it is the normal course of action that the Minister takes an initiative in this area, develops it, discusses it in the Council of Ministers and then in this committee. I hope that this will be accepted with great enthusiasm. Those who have problems with it should be allowed to stand up. I will submit a draft law to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible to resolve this problem. We will then write down who will or will not support this. It is my duty to bring this dossier to a successful conclusion very quickly. We have already worked very hard on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u54	Minister, make no mistake at all! You shouldn't always believe what Mrs. Lalieux says about me. I also told you last time that we support this principle at 100%. If this succeeds, that's a plume you're entitled to stick on your hat. After all, this is an important issue that has been causing debate for decades. Again and again the insurmountable argument of the exploding premiums for everyone is used. I'm a little concerned about that. I believe that this is a legitimate concern. It is true that I was surprised by the sudden news about this discussion that has been going on for a long time. I was pleasantly surprised when it appeared shortly afterwards that this is already at such an advanced stage that you can go with it to the Council of Ministers. I'll be happy to study those texts as soon as they get to us. If our concerns are met, we will fully support that bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u55	Deputy Prime Minister, I feel very honest and sincere in your words.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u56	That's good!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u57	It's not every day! I sent you the bill that I had tabled with some colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u58	You dropped it off, but we didn't get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u59	Yes, I do. Then I'll hand it to you. In any case, it appears on the House site. It's not very complicated to find her. You know that we will stand by you if your project goes in the same direction as the French text, which has shown its full effectiveness. I hope that all the parties represented in the government will support you in your efforts. Indeed, people suffering from chronic diseases and serious illnesses do not deserve the double or triple penalty imposed on them by insurers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u60	Minister, a company can no longer live without its own website or Facebook page. For example, the consumer, supplier or government can find it online. However, many companies do not appear to provide direct contact details on their website. When they sell products and services directly to the consumer and have questions or complaints, this is a major problem. There is often an e-mail address or a contact form, but when you use it you do not always get an answer. Some consumers are less skilled in computer science, which means that they risk falling out of the boat in the event of unduly charged invoices or other problems. The FPS Economy has put a handy overview of the mandatory entries online, but this does not always prove to be enough. For the consumer it is particularly frustrating if one can only contest an invoice via a contact form or an e-mail or raise a problem and then find that the e-mail is not always answered. Firstly, how do you respond to the finding that some companies, service providers or suppliers are barely reachable by the consumer, except via a digital contact form? Have your services received any complaints about this? Secondly, are you prepared to explore how businesses, public authorities and service providers can be better accessible for consumer questions and comments? Thirdly, are you prepared to examine the extent to which a telephone number should also be given to the consumer on an invoice for the benefit of the consumer? Fourthly, can you indicate how many audits your services have carried out on companies' websites on an annual basis or over the past three years to check whether they comply with legal obligations? Can you indicate on an annual basis how many companies were in breach and what consequences were given to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u61	That's a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u62	You can also give me the figures in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u63	No, we have to respond fully to this. We do what we can for everyone. There are already a lot of legal rules in place to ensure that consumers can easily get in touch with companies. Moreover, most of them are transposing European directives. For example, book III of the Economic Law Code states that companies must make available their address details, including any address, in order to allow rapid contact and effective communication. The various ways in which such data can be made available are also listed in the law. In addition, there are the provisions of book XII relating to information society services. Here, too, it is stipulated that companies should ensure permanent access to, inter alia, data enabling rapid contact and direct communication, including an electronic postal address. Those provisions do not speak of a telephone number. The case-law of the Court of Justice suggests that this is not a general requirement, but that, in certain circumstances, the consumer should have the right to obtain a telephone number. In addition, there are the legal rules of Book VI on distance contracts, which are based on the European Directive. Before a consumer closes a distance contract, the information he receives in advance must contain the company's telephone number, if available. Finally, I would also refer to book XVI, which provides that a company which has a specific internal complaint service must also provide its telephone number and its address. The Economic Inspectorate has received 279 complaints in the last three years: 71 in 2016, 138 in 2017 and 70 in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 July 2018. 8 716 checks were carried out during that period. They have led to 3 255 minutes of warning and 521 pro justitia's. The large number of checks is the result of a system followed by the Economic Inspectorate. In any investigation in which it is relevant, it shall also be verified whether the company has a website and, if so, whether the legally required particulars can be found on it. This system is a practical incentive for companies to provide the appropriate contact information in accordance with the legal rules I have just quoted. As I said, the rules do not provide for a mandatory reference to a telephone number on the invoice. As the information obligations are already wide, I do not think it is appropriate to impose additional administrative obligations. In addition, companies that are committed to customer friendliness and accessibility already supplement their invoices with telephone contact details.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. There is indeed a lot of regulation and a lot of controls are taking place. However, there are still some crooked companies, which is frustrating for consumers. I hope that the controls will continue to be carried out in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u65	Minister, the Military Programming Act covers a whole series of military purchases planned by the government. If the choice of the F-35 Americans to replace our current F-16s or the purchase of 442 French tanks has been the subject of much debate in the National Defence or Military Purchases Commission, I have had too little opportunity to hear from you on this subject. It's not for lack of asking! I would have liked to hear from you on the issue of societal returns, which fall fully within your competence. Mr Minister, has a meeting with the Belgian federated entities and industrialists potentially concerned been organised by your SPF on these various issues? If so, on which procurement files exactly and when? Why has this involvement of the federated entities not come further upstream of these procedures involving more than EUR 9 billion? Can you, in terms of your skills at the FPS Economy level, provide me with the state of affairs regarding societal returns for the various purchases provided for in the military programming law and their status? In particular, what about the government's replacement of fighter aircraft a few days ago? Finally, have you been briefed on possible societal returns that France would also have offered in the context of its offer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u66	Mr President, Minister, on 25 October 2018, the government decided to purchase 34 F-35 fighter aircraft. At the same time, it was announced that the decision would result in a large number of economic compensations worth EUR 3.7 billion. That's about the size of the purchase price. In the past, as we know, such promises were often not realised. I'd like to ask you a few questions to get more information. Economic compensation in the context of European legislation can only be achieved under the guise of essential security interests of our country. So I have some questions. Can you explain exactly what EUR 3.7 billion of compensation is? In what form are the compensations laid down? Are these business contracts, state-to-state agreements or other forms? Will they be made public? What monitoring mechanisms are provided for? Are testable criteria included in the agreements? Is there any provision for reporting? Are there fines and/or other sanctions in case of non-compliance? Finally, the government motivates the weight of 10% for economic compensation in the assessment of aircraft by calling in Article 346 of the EU Treaty, which can protect essential security interests. What specific security interests do compensation cover? How do they respond to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fernandez and Mr De Vriendt, I would like to make it quite clear that I did not calculate the amount in question myself. The calculations have been carried out very carefully by experts from the FPS Economy and Defence staff. In fact, at various meetings held here, they gave a text and explanations on this matter. So the amount was not calculated by me as Minister of Economy and was not launched either. The result of the calculations is part of the trade-offs between the F-35 and the Eurofighter. The economic aspect accounted for 10% in the total of 100 % of the trade-off. I would also like to point out in advance that the term 'economic compensation' referred to by Mr De Vriendt is no longer topical. The general framework in which Belgium launches new military investments is a fundamentally different framework from that in which previous investment waves were realised. Since 2009, there has been a new European directive that aims to organise military purchases as much as possible through market mechanisms, with the strategic objective of creating a more integrated EU defence market. This very active position of the European Commission against and a ban on imposing and/or accepting compensation from an industrial, economic or employment logic in military procurement aims to create a more integrated and market-based EU defence market. Only initiatives based on a safety logic are possible and proportionate. The experts who have looked carefully at this aspect have clearly and clearly started from that new framework. In order to respect and remain consistent with European regulations, the government has developed the new approach called "essential security interests", in Dutch "essentiële veiligheidsbelangen". This approach invites applicants, in the context of these procurement procedures, to propose projects that serve to strengthen industrial and/or research activities as set out in the document concerning Belgian interests in the field of defence and security policy. This document, prepared within the framework of the federal jurisdiction of Defence and Security, was approved by the Council of Ministers on October 28, 2016. Of course, in the next phase of project implementation, dialogue with regional entities will be initiated. The amount of EUR 3.7 billion is an estimate of the turnover that the proposals on key security interests (ESP) could generate over the next 20 years. As the life of the platform is longer, this figure may change in the course of the program. The proposed EFP measures are mainly concerned with the production of components and supporting equipment, maintenance and not just platform-related military advanced technologies and applications. The administration of the FPS Economy has analysed and evaluated the two dossiers submitted following the publication of the Request for Government Proposal at the ACAP. The French file was never filed. The proposals contained therein are not known to us and have therefore not been analysed and evaluated. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you asked me about the French file. I can tell you that this has never been introduced and that the proposals included in this dossier are not known to us since they have not been analysed or evaluated. That's very clear. With regard to the file of the mine control service, the analysis of the tenders is currently under way. The opportunities for the Belgian industry in the field of defence and security are an integral part of the offer submitted by the US State Agency to the Belgian Defence Agency and as such will be binding. These possibilities are supported by pre-agreements or industrial agreements between the companies concerned in both countries. Moreover, the qualified opportunities are included in a separate agreement on essential security interests between the Belgian Government, on the one hand, and Lockheed Martin Global Inc. and United Technologies Corporation, on the other. The agreements will also be worked out in detailed implementation agreements, which will detail the implementation of the measure. With regard to this part of the tender, non-closure agreements were signed by the departments concerned, which remain valid even after the award of the contract. I do not know them either, but I expect you to understand that these companies are obviously relying on them, unless they want to go public themselves. The implementation of the individual proposals will be closely monitored by the departments concerned. The contractor is bound by a semesterary, later annual, reporting. Individual implementation agreements will lay down interim Milestones which, if applicable, will also serve as an interim review of the financing mechanism to be submitted through repayable advances case by case. Contrary to the abolished compensation mechanism, there is no penalty clause through a bank guarantee on the possible non-realised part of the compensation commitment. At that time there was a commitment from the contractor to a fixed percentage of the contract amount. Now there is a list of opportunities for the Belgian industry concerned, with no lower limit, but also without upper limit. The EFP proposals should be read as a commitment to assign Belgian companies a role in the international value chain of the OMCs concerned, but provided that the Belgian companies concerned can present the required competitiveness. That's obvious. Each individual IS measure was examined to determine whether it could be accepted in the European employment framework of Article 346.1(b). To this end, the link between the proposed IS measures, KETA (Key Enabling Technologies Areas), and the nature of the programme in question was first verified. Secondly, the investigation examined whether the proposed IS measure provided adequate protection proportionate to the essential security interests of the Belgian State. Finally, the proposed IS measure should not affect the conditions of competition in the European internal market for goods and services not intended for specifically military use. From all this, it must be clear that there is no longer any talk of economic compensation. We must work for economic and industrial participation in the development of such programmes in a completely different environment. Moreover, we have done everything we can to ensure that, on the one hand, EU legislation in this area is strictly respected and, on the other hand, that our essential security interests are respected and that we take full advantage of the opportunities to promote our technical and industrial capabilities among the industrial players involved. Our companies and the Regions are asking to be closely involved in the development of economic and industrial participation. However, in view of the new EU rules, public authorities cannot be involved in the development of such programmes. It is the OEMs who analysed the specifications and our KETAs and made proposals for the companies concerned. In the context of the ACAP programme, an information session for the Belgian industry was organised by my administration and the Ministry of Defence on 23 May 2017 to inform them about the new methodology Essential Safety Interests. The preparatory meeting with the representatives of Agoria, BSDI and the regional umbrella for the aviation industry in the cabinet of Economy was terminated from the publication of the RfGP. On 17 July 2018, a meeting with the same group took place in the Ministry of Defence's cabinet to explain how the individual companies were approached and involved by the evaluation team and to give their insight into the consultation mechanism, which would be set up after possible decisions. On the other hand, the motorized capacity programme is a B-to-B programme, for which the role of my administration was limited to observing and supporting the conversations between French and Belgian companies. The same principle applies to the drones project with General Atomics. Since the Government intends to develop a defence industry and research strategy with the Länder and inform the Regions and, if they so wish, will be involved in the R&D initiatives for ongoing procurement programmes, a strategic consultation platform will be established with the relevant federal and regional departments and the Community departments in order to facilitate coordination between federal security policy and industrial policy and R&D policy at regional level. This platform will also examine the need for a cooperation agreement to exchange information and cooperate with regional authorities and, where appropriate, propose texts to this end. Finally, the consultation platform will enable our country to respond dynamically in the near future to the various initiatives developed at EU level, such as the European Defence Fund and the EU Defence Industrial Development Programme. I also drew up a letter, which, of course, must also be signed by the new Minister of Defence, addressed to the Prime Ministers, in which we ask for representation on the platform for the regions and also for the Communities, because R&D policy is part of it. Mr President, I would like to make all possible information available to Parliament, because there are many questions about the EUR 3.7 billion. However, I would like to stress once again that this amount has not been politically committed, but has been determined methodologically and discussed in detail with the experts. I also took note of this when considering it, as it accounts for 10%. Together with my colleague in the defence sector, I am now doing everything I can to put this into practice and to ensure that it is implemented in the new European framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u68	Minister, I am somewhat concerned about the elements of your response. First, you confirm that the federated entities will be associated but that this is not yet the case. You informed them. This is the information I had, but I regret that they were not involved earlier in the process. It is still the "market of the century". The federated entities still have skills in terms of research and employment. And when we talk about such amounts, it would have been interesting to associate them upstream of the file and not just when it is signed. That's unfortunate! Secondly, I understand that in order to respond to European competitiveness regulations, we are buying in fine American, to summarize and popularise your remarks. You will understand that I may regret it. Figures were announced earlier in the Special Committee on Military Purchases and Sales, but there is no guarantee because there is no fine clause. If I understand correctly and to popularise your remarks, if the commitments made are not fulfilled, there is no fine. Finally, what will be the obligation of these societal and economic benefits? We call them what we want, but you and I both know very well what we're talking about. We're not gonna pretend we're not talking about the same thing. That means that what we have been denouncing for weeks is true. These are advertising effects, with no real guarantee behind employment benefits. Your mimic seems to confirm what I'm saying; or then I misunderstood what I want to hear, for what you say is sometimes ambiguous and makes it difficult to understand. I'm kind of caught up in the subject. You say the amounts have been defined. I hope you didn't decide them on your own. I'll believe you. I even wish it. I'm glad. The only good news of what has been said may be that you have not decided on your own, but that you have called on experts. What worries me is that they say that there are repercussions but that, in the end, there is no guarantee that they will take place because there is no fine clause or obligation to apply. We know the amount, even if the federated entities have not been involved before. The distribution will then take place, but we do not know what the criteria will be - although these industries are known to be located more in the south than in the north of the country. In short, your answer does not reassure me; on the contrary, it makes me even more worried. At this morning's meeting, in the Special Committee on Military Purchases and Sales, all members - including those of the majority - agreed that you should be heard. I therefore hope that you will honour this invitation. I assume you will not receive it by text, but by letter from the chairman of the committee. We will therefore finally be able to hear from you, particularly about the companies that have been consulted. Although the transcripts are public, I am aware that confidentiality clauses are being applied. Therefore, we will not receive all the information. I look forward to hearing you in fifteen days, while expressing growing fear about what has been called the "market of the century". Nevertheless, Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u69	I hope, Minister, that you will understand that we Members of this House are interested in the composition of the EUR 3.7 billion. According to the handbook, the government has based its decision on these essential security interests for 10% of its total value. I also hear that there have been meetings with Belgian companies in order to go deeper into the possible opportunities. I have the impression that Belgian companies are certainly a little more specific and better informed than Members of Parliament. I hope you understand that this is a bit difficult. I'd like to look with you for ways to get some more information about this prognosis. You're talking about a 3.7 billion prognosis. It may be less or more, depending on the extent to which we seize opportunities, and the market may also change in the coming years. So far, I agree, but in order to carry out our task of control, the elements that have been presented to us so far are a little too vague. During the launch of the handbook, the Treasury Inspectorate issued an opinion pointing out possible legal risks. So there are no guarantees and one cannot be completely certain of everything. My first question is therefore whether we can work with you to find ways of getting some more information in our capacity as Members of Parliament. As far as I'm concerned, we can do that behind closed doors. Secondly, to what extent does all this meet the definition of essential security interests, as applied by Europe? You say you checked it out. Can you specify to whom? Did you make the analysis yourself or was it checked out by the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u70	Mr De Vriendt, I fully understand the role that Parliament and Members of both the majority and the opposition must play. As you propose, I would like to look for methods of gathering information, both with respect for the public nature of certain data and with respect for the fact that certain data cannot be disclosed or should remain confidential. I, too, do not have all the data. It is not the case that we want to withhold something; on the contrary, it would be counterproductive and the issue of economic aspects merely raises objections, which I absolutely do not want. We need to look, and I want to look with the experts at how far I can go and what methods can be applied. I would like to emphasise once again that as a minister I did not intervene throughout the process. Mrs Fernandez, you asked the question as to what happened to the Regions by pointing out that they were not consulted. But that is also my case. This is a methodology in which experts were used, etc. The economic aspects are taken up at a rate of 10% in this methodology, but, like the Regions, I have not had the opportunity to intervene. But now we're in another phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u71	Mr Minister, I understand that you have not intervened, and that is what has been criticized since the beginning. Indeed, we should at least have heard you and the federated entities, without you interfering in the process, even perhaps before the writing of the appeal book. It's about the market of the century. We know our company's involvement in these matters. It would have been a good idea for the Minister of Economy and the relevant federal entities not to interfere in the process but, at least, to be informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u72	It is planned that consultations will take place and meetings with the Communities, etc., will be held under the new phase. I have to look at the last element that has been mentioned, because I did not check it out in Europe either. I have been very careful not to intervene in the balance as Minister of Economy. The experts bear the responsibility in this respect and they also guarantee that it is not fake news. In this sense, the balance has also been made in accordance with European rules. I can ask for you on the basis of which European legislation that has been checked, but the conclusion as presented to me has also been checked for compliance with the European directives. The experts have assured us that there are no problems in this area. Mr President, I will ask exactly which bodies have consulted the experts. For the sake of clarity, I repeat that I did not consult because I did not participate in the process because it had to be conducted in complete independence and objectivity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u73	Thank you, Minister. It is true that this debate is a little long, but it is an important issue. Do you have anything to add, Mr De Vriendt, to the last word that is still in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u74	Thank you for the commitments, Minister. As far as the answer to that last question is concerned, should I ask an additional parliamentary question? Who checked it out? Can you get me or the committee that information?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u75	...experts will give me some clarity on that very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u76	It may be an analysis of its own by the experts in the department or that it has been checked out by the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u77	Both, I assume.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u78	Let's hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u79	Mr President, Minister, the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union is approaching. An agreement between the Member States and the United Kingdom still does not seem to be within reach and the possibility of a so-called hard Brexit seems increasingly plausible. The effects of the Brexit, even the softer variant, on our companies are difficult to estimate. Customs duties, stricter border controls, longer waiting times for transport and additional licensing obligations are all possible. This changing trade relationship will oblige our companies to make adjustments. This will take time. Nevertheless, a study by PwC shows that more than half of Limburg's SMEs are not prepared for the consequences of the Brexit. They'd put the problems ahead of them. This could be detrimental to our economy and in particular our SMEs from March 2019. Minister, how does the federal government prepare our SMEs for the forthcoming Brexit? Do you have any knowledge of the figures from PwC showing that half of Limburg's SMEs are not ready for the Brexit? What's your opinion? Is that a finding that is noticeable throughout the country? Do you envisage additional measures to further inform our SMEs about the Brexit and the need to make timely adjustments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u80	Mr President, Mr Janssen, our services are helping SMEs for the upcoming Brexit. In mid-September we launched the Brexit Impact Scan, abbreviated BIS. This is inspired by the Irish and Dutch initiatives. The FPS Economy and the Dutch administration have joined forces. Thanks to a smooth collaboration between the two, between the Belgian administrations themselves and with the regions of the region, which is quite unique, the Belgian Brexit Impact Scan was created. The Brexit Impact Scan provides advice according to business activity and intentions. In a short time, about a month, more than 4,000 companies have gone through this scan. The Impact Scan was supported by a portal providing useful information on the four freedoms within the internal market, namely goods, services, persons and capital. The website and the scan provide the best possible advice for companies based on the situation as it is known today. One of the most important issues is that customs formalities will apply, while there was previously free movement within the customs union. In the case of goods, companies are also faced with additional costs for new EU type certificates or intellectual property rights or additional costs derived from rules of origin. Companies are advised to re-read and amend their contracts where necessary. As Minister for Labour, I can also say that reference is made to the effects of the Brexit on the labour market. This information is also accessible via a portal. Not only Limburg SMEs are not ready; from information from the sectors I understand that most SMEs are not yet ready or have not yet prepared. Hence the Brexit Impact Scan. My administration has also set up a road show with the Chambers of Commerce to further inform SMEs. These workshops have started and will run in the coming months. I understand that my colleague from Finance and even the Prime Minister of Flanders are going to organise road shows. We are doing everything we can, with respect for the powers. Unlike other countries, with the Brexit Impact Scan, we have an instrument that SMEs can use in a very simple way to assess the impact of a no deal in a very comprehensive way for their business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u81	Minister, I note that a lot of SMEs are not or are not aware. I believe that the impact study of 4,000 companies is a good thing, and that we should continue along this path, together with the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u82	Mr Minister, at the Committee on the Economy on 17 October, I asked the Minister for Energy to relaunch the OFF ON campaign so that citizens can be involved in reducing the demand for electricity at times when we risk experiencing a shortage this winter. The minister said she was in favour of it, but that you considered it premature. Minister, why has this leverage not yet been activated when the electricity shortage situation is worse than the one experienced in 2014-15? I think these campaigns are important both for the environment and for the citizens' bills. We know that electricity is much more expensive today. It is important to inform citizens that they can reduce their energy bills and adopt more sustainable consumption. I therefore do not understand why, according to your colleague, you insist on opposing this OFF ON campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u83	Ms.Lalieux, the 2014 OFF ON awareness campaign is ready. The website offon.be is also online. However, it was decided not to launch an intensive media campaign now, so as not to create an unwarranted sense of panic among the population. This campaign is indeed planned in the event that a threat of shortage is identified. For a maximum of seven days of pre-detection, it will have a much greater incentive effect at that time, with the aim of avoiding the activation of the relief plan. Carrying out such a campaign today, while there is no imminent threat of a shortage of electricity, would amount to carrying out a loop with for collateral damage a loss of effectiveness of this campaign at the time of a real crisis situation. Moreover, this does not remove the need for information and awareness-raising campaigns that encourage households and businesses to use energy effectively. However, the question of its rational use falls within the competence of the regional authorities. It is therefore the responsibility of regional Governments to organize them in accordance with their political objectives. To conclude, Mrs. Lalieux, we are ready. I hope you will agree with me that it is not wise to provoke a panic movement, since there is no imminent threat of a shortage of electricity. A rational reflection must be maintained. Again, I'm not blocking anything. Of course, I recognize that this is a heavy responsibility. In any case, I hope that it will not be necessary to launch such a campaign in 2018-2019, but this is obviously another aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u84	Minister, far from me the idea of wanting to raise a sense of panic among the population. I know that in December, fortunately, there will be no shortage of electricity. Of course, we can't predict anything for January and February. In any case, everyone is working to avoid being relieved. We agree with that. However, I quite frankly believe that this is a useful campaign for the consumer and that it should not be carried out only in times of crisis. You need to find a way to launch it if you need it. I think it is always good to remind the citizen that he can be a consumer or a non-consumer of active energy and that small simple gestures can reduce his consumption and help preserve our environment. I therefore do not agree with you, except simply to issue an additional alert when necessary. I hope it won't be necessary, but if I understand you correctly, there will be no OFF ON campaign if there is no shortage. I still regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u85	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Janssen has converted 27423 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u86	Mr President, Minister, the Italian competition authority AGCM has recently found that smartphone manufacturers have inappropriate commercial practices in offering updates to operating systems of their products. Research would specifically show that these updates sometimes slow down or reduce the battery life of the device. This would encourage consumers to buy a new smartphone more quickly. Apple received a fine of EUR 10 million from the Italian authority. Samsung was fined 5 million euros. Test-Achats also argues in our country for dealing with this method. It also points to the fact that on average updates and support are offered by the manufacturer only up to 18 months in the lifetime of an appliance. The consumer organisation points out that fines are not always the most effective method of encouraging producers to change practices. My questions are as follows. Is the Economic Inspectorate in our country also investigating the above-mentioned practices? If so, what are the findings in this respect? Are you planning initiatives to stop such practices? Do you see opportunities at European level to better protect consumers from such practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u87	Minister, on 24 October last, the Italian competition authority sentenced Apple and Samsung to fines of 10 and 5 million euros for practices similar to planned obsolescence. The Commission found that practices inciting smartphone users to install software updates leading to a slowdown in their phone system violated Articles 20, 21, 22 and 24 of the Italian Consumer Code in that companies had not informed consumers of the serious malfunctions that the new firmware could cause due to the greater constraint on the device's equipment and the high repair cost. The above-mentioned articles concern unfair, misleading and aggressive commercial practices and are very similar to those contained in Chapter 1 of Title 4 of Book VI of our own Code of Economic Law. My questions are as follows, minister. Is the Belgian competition authority also competent to deal with such cases? If not, which service is competent? Are similar cases currently pending? Since Belgian law is very comparable to Italian law on the above points, it should also be quite possible to condemn similar practices in our country on the same basis; do you confirm that? If so, Belgian consumers holding Samsung and Apple brand smartphones have been victims of the same practices as Italian consumers, how do you explain that no condemnation has taken place in our country? Finally, when your majority rejected the texts of the opposition relating to the fight against programmed obsolescence, you had suggested that you were advancing on the subject on your side. What's the situation? What concrete measures do you intend to propose? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Janssen and Mr de Lamotte, in their press release of 5 November, the Italian competition authority states that Apple and Samsung have resorted to unfair commercial practices. The term 'planned ageing' is not used in that press release, but it is in line with what I have always said, namely that planned ageing is a form of misleading commercial practices, which is also prohibited in Belgium by Book VI of the Economic Law Code, and therefore does not require any additional legislation. I repeat once again that in 2016, I have already extended the scope for sanctions to take action in this regard. I have set up a working group to study measures to extend the life of products. In Belgium, the Competition Authority is not responsible for unfair commercial practices, but the Economic Inspectorate. It has not received any concrete complaints regarding the updates of smartphone operating systems. If there are concrete complaints, they will of course be investigated. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in such cases, misleading commercial practices are difficult to prove. It is necessary to assess whether this is inevitable technological progress or a misleading indication that can decisively influence the consumer's purchasing decision. However, the Economic Inspectorate has meanwhile analysed the Italian decision from the point of view of unfair commercial practices and put the issue on the agenda of the European network of consumer protection authorities. Indeed, we must be sure that the decision at Italian level is sustainable and well-founded. Here, too, the problem is being identified, the scale of the problem is being assessed and the possibility of the consumer acquis to deal adequately with such cases is being examined. The basic legislation is, after all, European. It is therefore very useful to know the views of the other competent inspection services. In conclusion, I am interested in more information and understanding of the Italian decision. I have asked the economic inspectorate to examine this matter and discuss it at European level. I am prepared to make the same decisions if it is possible to counter certain situations with the rule of unfair commercial practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The last thing you said is important. You will have it checked out in Italy. If you have an answer, we will get feedback.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u90	Mr President, I agree with my colleague Janssen's reply to the remarks the Minister will receive from the Economic Policy Service, which is the Inspection Service. I had one last question, minister, about the planned obsolescence. You had suggested that since the rejection of our bill on the subject, you were going to move forward on the subject. You avoided the answer. Has there been any change in your or the government's attitude to the fight against planned obsolescence and to the question of a bill on the subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u91	I have pointed out, Mr de Lamotte, if the Italian case is a well-founded case, there is no need to review our legislation. This is the interesting aspect in Italy. When it is said very clearly that it is a measure in the context of unfair competition, it is the essential element. New legislation should not be drafted. This is the most interesting thing for me too: to have the security that it is possible to tackle the abuses that you have highlighted with the unfair competition instrument.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u92	I am not convinced by the minister's answer. Unfair competition is one thing. Programmed obsolescence is another concept that significantly undermines consumer rights. I note that the government will not make any progress on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u93	Minister, we have been working for some time on the IDD directive, which will be definitively transposed into legislation in the next plenary session. This is a new stage in the harmonisation of the European insurance market. However, there is still a lack of clarity in Belgian legislation regarding the statute of insurance underwriter. The sector is asking for this statute to be put on the spot. Underwriters aggregate the ability of several insurers to subscribe, which facilitates distribution. Underwriters can also offer innovative solutions thanks to their far-reaching specialisation. Do you intend to include this statute in the legislation? What are the possible objections not to introduce this in the short term? What is the state of play in the negotiations with the sector, which you are conducting as always?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u94	At my question, or on your question through my question, the FSMA conducted an investigation into a possible legal framework for authorised authors, also called insurance underwriters. In doing so, the FSMA consults a wide range of parties, mainly authorised underwriters, wholesale insurance intermediaries and all professional organisations of intermediaries and Assuralia were also contacted. This study shows, as you already knew, that all the parties concerned are in favour of introducing this statute in order to make it clearer. The aim is to distinguish clearly with the activities of classical mediators, so that conflicts of interest can be better managed and even prevented and to avoid confusion among consumers. It is also important that authorised authors have a sound organisation, given the particular nature of their activity. Very recently I was allowed to receive a proposal for legislation from the FSMA. This proposal is still under consideration and will shortly be submitted to an Inter-Kabinette Working Group to make progress in this regard. I hope you are very pleased that we have already brought this to this point. You will be even more pleased if we can present this here after the Inter-Kabinettes Working Group and the Council of Ministers, where you will be pleased to defend it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u95	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It is common knowledge that you have a lot of discussions. In this area, too, I expected nothing else. According to my information, the sector is indeed a very demanding party to this. I hope to see the outcome of all this discussion very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u96	Minister, there are still complaints from the locksmiths' sector about unfair practices. For example, some locksmiths would charge up to EUR 700 to replace a lock. In a communication in January of this year, you indicated that you had instructed your administration to launch a general investigation into the excessive fees charged by emergency recovery services, and to consider how to tighten up the existing rules. In June of this year, you repeated that message. Minister, how many complaints has the FPS Economy received last year about locksmiths? How many times was the penalty imposed and what was the penalty? Has the study on the sector been completed yet? Do you have a look at the rules you want to tighten up? If so, by when can we expect these rules? The problem is cross-border. Has it already been addressed at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u97	Mr Janssen, we have indeed looked at this and I can answer you as follows. For the registration of notifications, there was only one unique code Urgent Repair Services at the Economic Inspection. A new, separate code for locksmiths was added at the beginning of August, allowing more precise figures to be given for the month of August. In that month, twenty-eight reports related to locksmiths were noted. In mid-September, the Economic Inspectorate launched a general survey of 200 companies providing urgent repair services. It focuses on locksmiths and plumbers. The audit focuses on the pre-contractual information obligations of undertakings, the obligation to register in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises, unfair commercial practices and the detection of abnormal profits. The investigation is ongoing. However, 26 minutes of warning and one pro-justitia charge locksmiths have already been drawn up. The figures are very provisional; the general survey is still ongoing and many individual dossiers have not yet been closed. I had asked the Special Consultative Committee on Consumption to make proposals to improve the situation in the event of emergency repairs. The opinion concludes that additional legal obligations for companies should be avoided and that the existing legal framework provides adequate protection. However, it is recommended that the delivery of a detailed proof of payment should always be compulsory, even if the consumer does not ask for it himself. Since the opinion does not contain any further concrete proposals, I would like to await the findings and decisions of the general survey in order to determine which regulatory adjustment or adjustments would be appropriate. The problem is indeed cross-border and mainly because of Dutch companies. At present, there is no widespread European problem. In the context of the Consumer Protection Cooperation Network, of which the Economic Inspection is a member, European cross-border unfair practices may be reported to the consumer protection authority of the country where the company is established and may be requested to take action. The problems of locksmiths were already discussed with the Dutch Authority for Consumer & Market (ACM) some time ago. A lot of data could be exchanged. A further consultation with the Economic Inspection is planned at the end of January 2019. On that occasion, the ACM would explain the actions it has itself undertaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u98	Thank you for your reply, Minister. The only striking thing is that a lot of observations have been made in the short term. I suppose, however, that the complaints service for many people is still unknown. So we've probably only seen the tip of the iceberg.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u99	Minister, last week it became known that the Dutch travel agency TravelBird received a delay in payment and ended up in financial difficulties. Meanwhile, we've learned they've been declared bankrupt. Furthermore, it was already known that a whole number of travelers could not get access to their hotel because TravelBird had not made the necessary payments to the hotel owners in time. About 40 000 tourists would have been duped at the moment. Initially Dutch travellers were mainly affected, but in the meantime we are getting reports that countrymen would also be affected. Minister, has the Economic Inspectorate received any complaints about the problems at TravelBird? What action has been taken on these complaints?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u100	Madam President, Mr Janssen, the Economic Inspectorate recently received three reports from consumers concerning TravelBird. The reporters will receive an answer which will clarify that this is a Dutch company that is insured at the Guarantee Fund Travel Foundation. A claim must therefore be lodged with this guarantee fund in order to obtain, in accordance with European rules, a refund of the amounts already paid for travel which is not carried out, or to be assured of repatriation for travellers who have already started their journey.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u101	That was obvious. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u102	Mr Minister, the social situation in the air sector, the lack of empathy of the bosses, the lack of enthusiasm they show to create spaces for discussion with the workers, have meant that the passengers have often found themselves on the tile in recent times, whether we think of Ryanair or Aviapartner. Consumers can, of course, bring legal proceedings for the settlement of compensation. But what about the deadline? In the analysis, it seems that Belgium, in the European area, stands out by its narrow consumer regime. Article 182 of the Business Law Reform Act of 15 April 2018 provides that "actions arising from the contract of carriage of persons, with the exception of actions resulting from an act qualified by criminal law, shall be prescribed after one year". In the Netherlands, however, the limitation period for air passengers is two years. In Germany, it is three years old, in France of five years old, in England of six years old and in Luxembourg of ten years old. I quote here only our neighbours, but in all the countries of the European Union, without exception, and in all the countries of the European Economic Area, we are doing better than this one-year rule applied in Belgium. This is evident from a recent analysis by Test-Achats. My question is therefore simple. Do you share our feeling that discrimination against Belgian passengers should be lifted and do you support our request to align the limitation period with our neighbours, and to increase it to a minimum of two years?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lalieux, Test-Achats has sent me an identical letter to the question you are asking me now. My reply to this letter was sent today. It is therefore logical that you are not yet in possession of a copy of this letter, but I can transmit it to you. However, this is not the most important point of your question. The limitation period for package travel and related travel benefits has been set at two years, i.e. the minimum period laid down by the European Directive. The law of 21 November 2017 falls within my competence. However, this is not the case with the limitation periods applicable to contracts of carriage. This is a matter for the Minister of Justice, to whom a letter has been sent. I wrote to him asking him to examine this issue in depth. In my view, the different periods of limitation are not transparent. I therefore agree with you and hope that my colleague will be able to correct this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u104	Minister, thank you for your answer. A question addressed to your colleague, the Minister of Justice, was also tabled. Looks like he didn't send her back to you. So I have a little chance to get two answers. It is true that the limitation period for package travel is two years. But the law of companies, for which I thought you were competent, provides that the limitation period for transport contracts is only one year. I have therefore tabled a bill to increase this deadline and to layer it on that of the European area, which ranges from two to ten years. Indeed, Belgium is the only country where the deadline is one year. This discrimination must be redressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u105	Minister, you recently tweeted that you will be sitting with your colleague Ducarme in the coming weeks to develop a framework for B2B protection. In this way, you want to make it easier for SMEs to challenge abuse of their economic dependence on large companies. You know that since the beginning of this legislature, this has been one of my pets. My bill on this issue has been on the table since 2015. I am therefore very pleased that concrete steps are being taken in this direction. You also know that we believe that an independent supervisor is crucial in this respect in order to ensure an independent and straightforward investigation. After all, we fear that there is a risk that companies might refrain from investing in our country if the possibility is open to politically motivated prosecution of certain commercial practices. I have two questions for you, Minister. Will the competence fall under an independent institution? If not, why not? How will it be determined whether a company is in a dependent position? Do you have a deadline to complete all this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u106	Mrs Gantois, the draft law currently under discussion at federal government level effectively empowers an independent supervisory authority to combat abuse of a position of economic dependence. It concerns the Belgian Competition Authority. I hope that everyone, especially when you give it back, will fully support the draft when we have had, for the sake of clarity, IKW's and other discussions. The abuse of a position of economic dependence is defined as a restrictive competition practice which is prohibited by Book IV, Protection of Competition, of the Code of Economic Law in the same way as the appointment and abuse of a dominant position. By assigning the dispute to the public enforcement of competition law, the victims can rely on the powers of the Belgian Competition Authority and on all the possibilities at their disposal. The draft law defines the position of economic dependence in view of its importance and legal certainty for companies. The definition is based on two criteria, namely the absence of a reasonable equivalent alternative, available within a reasonable time and on reasonable conditions and costs, and on the fact that a company could impose performance or conditions that could not be obtained under normal market conditions. [[A comparative legal analysis of the Member States where abuse of economic dependence is prohibited allowed factors for the existence of a position of economic dependence to be derived, in particular, firstly, from the relative market power of the other undertaking; secondly, an important share of the other undertaking's turnover, while also bearing in mind that the more important this share is, the greater the risk of dependence; thirdly, the technology or know-how held by the other undertaking; fourthly, the great reputation of a trade mark, the scarcity of the product, the perishable nature of the product or the loyal buying behaviour of consumers; fifthly, the access of the undertaking to resources or to essential infrastructure; sixthly, the fear of serious economic disadvantage, reprisals or the termination of a contractual relationship; seventhly, the regular granting to an undertaking of special conditions, such as discounts which are not granted to other undertakings in comparable cases; and finally, its reasonable choice or, on the contrary, to put itself in a position of economic dependence.]] All these factors were explicitly highlighted in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, ensuring that the position of economic dependence can be assessed on a case-by-case basis, with guaranteed legal certainty. So I am very glad that you asked that question again. I hope that everyone in the government will want to land as soon as possible, especially in view of your enthusiastic support. I can also count on those who are dear to you in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u107	Then we are both happy, Minister. We will look at it again, along with our services and with you. If it goes in that direction, you'll find a partner in us. I am very glad that we are getting out of this after almost three years, perhaps thanks to Europe, which has realised that we have to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u108	Mr Minister, my question concerns a dossier that we have worked on for a long time and which was resolved by your royal decision of 11 December 2016. You have tried to bring the Belgian rules on home copy into line with European case law, including the Padawan judgment. That judgment provides that the home copy charge may be collected only from those who are entitled to the home copy, being individuals, and not from those who are not entitled to it, being professional users. You have introduced a scheme for the refund or exemption of that home copy fee. Professional users can either recover the paid home copy fee or make their purchases from an exempt supplier. I asked you a year after the introduction for an evaluation through my oral question of November 2017. At that time, no approved supplier of professional storage media, exempted from home copying charges, was available on the Auvibel website. You replied that no application for reimbursement had yet been submitted to Auvibel. Of course, the particularly complex procedures of Auvibel, as confirmed by DAV, are not surprising. You also asked me to ask you with due precision a follow-up question in good time, which I am delighted to do. After all, we are now a year away. In fact, I see that, a year later, there is still no exempted supplier. How many applications for reimbursement of the home copy fee has Auvibel already received from how many professional users and for what amount? What efforts have Auvibel and the FPS Economy made to simplify the application for reimbursement and lower the threshold for making the application? How many questions to clarify the procedure have been asked at Auvibel, at the advisory committee "home copy," at the sector organisation and at the FPS? How many complaints have been received from the audit authority regarding the exemption agreement and the application for reimbursement? You opened up last year to an evaluation of your Royal Decree. In the meantime, we've been two years. What conclusion do you draw from the figures? What evaluation has already been made? What initiatives have you taken and will you take to ensure that the Padawan judgment has not only been transposed on paper but also in practice, and that artificial thresholds are not created to perpetuate non-implementation? The implementation of the Padawan and Reprobel judgments had to put our rules in place with the latest European case law. Hence the obvious question: is our regulation of home copy and reproduction today, with the exception of an evaluation of the Padawan judgment, in accordance with European regulations or are further changes required? If so, what and by what time? What judgments have we missed in the meantime, which we have yet to implement? What other changes have been made in the meantime at European level, which we should take with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u109	Mr Dedecker, I must say that I am somewhat disappointed, not by your question, of course, but by the fact that Auvibel has received a refund application for EUR 15.75 since January 2017. After the entry into force of the KB, the websites of Auvibel and the FPS Economy were modified. Last year, the Auvibel procedure was also refined so that applications can be processed more efficiently. To date, Auvibel has received four questions to clarify the possibility of reimbursement. The FPS Economy has not received any questions to date nor has the Audit Service received any complaints regarding the reimbursement. The Royal Decree has the merit of ensuring compliance of Belgian legislation with the Padawan judgment. With the current figures, however, we can say that despite the necessary publicity, there are hardly any applications or questions concerning reimbursement. Consequently, an evaluation of the Royal Decree by the Advisory Commission is not currently a priority. Belgian private copy legislation is currently in line with the European framework. However, this framework can change rapidly through case law. My cabinet is therefore in constant contact with the various stakeholders in order to introduce possible European developments efficiently and through consultation in Belgian law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u110	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I note that our legislation today is in line with all European legislation and case law. That is very interesting, except, of course, for Padawan. If we see that there is only one application for reimbursement, we can draw a logical conclusion, in particular that the threshold is too high. A company does not bother to set up a staff member for half an hour for 15 euros, because that costs more than it pays. However, they knew that in advance. At the time of the establishment of the Royal Decree, a study was carried out by the Administrative Simplification Office, which concluded in advance that the scheme, as developed, raises such a high threshold that it does not actually pay to make that application. The amounts are too small for that. In other words, de facto those who are not entitled to a home copy will continue to pay the levy. Actually, this is some kind of unlawful tax. Can it be said that the rules are in line with Padawan, if such a form of abuse can actually arise in favour of management company Auvibel? So there seems to be a need for some evaluation. Maybe we share the disappointment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u111	Mr Minister, my question is a follow-up question after the discussion we had a few years ago. In the meantime, however, a lot of things have changed. The world around us is changing faster and faster. Digitisation has a huge economic impact. For example, when we look at music and video and take into account the figures of the Belgian Entertainment Association for the last month, it appears that today in Belgium the paying streaming of music with 31 % market share is the most popular music format. This is also evident from imec's annual digimeter study. Today, the center labeled streaming as the most popular form of music consumption, while barely a few years ago it labeled streaming as a budding exploration of over-the-top activities. Today, the budding exploration of that time has become number one. The times they are a changing would say Bob Dylan. Besides streaming, there is still such a thing as digital sales, the legal downloads. According to BEA, they account for 13 percent of the sales, which makes more than half of the music sales today digital. I have four questions on this, Minister. Auvibel should regularly study the damage suffered by copyright holders and holders of related rights who produce the exception called home copy. In what way do you see the impact of streaming on that shift of possession of music, either as an original or as a copy, towards a paying access? How do you see that evolution reflected in the damage budgeted by Auvibel? It would, of course, be logical for the damage to be seriously reduced by the shift. Do you see this in the study that Auvibel regularly makes about this? How does the "home copy" advisory committee evaluate the impact of these economic shifts on the damage caused by the home copy? Two years ago, you replied to my question that a study would be launched on behalf of the FPS Economy with the aim of carrying out an objective, methodological calculation of the damage actually suffered under that exception. It seemed to me at that time a very logical answer from you that it would be an independent study rather than a study carried out by the beneficiaries. This study would take into account not only streaming, but also legal downloads where explicit payment was made for the possibility of using multiple devices or thus a home copy, as is the case with the largest provider iTunes. The damage caused by illegal copying should also be excluded, as in the Netherlands, where this led to a 30% reduction in tariffs. How's the study going today? To what extent was the impact of streaming, digital sales and illegal use included? What are the results? How and when will the study be made public? How do you take these developments into account in determining the rates of the Auvibel tax? What plans do you have for this? How do you see the proceeds of that tax evolving? What plans do you have for possible tariff changes?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u112	Mr Dedecker, the impact of the phenomenon of streaming and other evolutions on the remuneration for private copies was indeed included in the study on the home copy fee carried out on behalf of the FPS Economy. During the preparation of the study, these were submitted several times to the "home copy" advisory committee, in which stakeholders were able to make their comments. In the meantime, the study has been completed, but results in a very large damage fork. Therefore, in consultation with the sectors concerned, we will try to gather more concrete figures in order to reduce this fork. We will then examine, in consultation with stakeholders and through consultation of the "home copy" advisory committee, whether, on the basis of the study and other relevant information, the current implementing measures can or should be adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u113	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As far as the large damage fork is concerned, I had heard this informally somewhere. I do not know the amount by heart, but it was indeed considerable. I know you have the money in front of you, but you didn't just give it to me. How can you explain that such a result is achieved in a study?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u114	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u115	Money thrown away, I'd think. If you put so much money into a study and you do not come to a sensible result, then there is a problem with the study. Consultation and consultation, that is the path that we have been following for a very long time; a path which you, of course, traditionally follow. I believe that, in addition to a really good study, which has been tried here, there are few alternatives. Above all, we must be inspired by what is happening abroad. In the Netherlands this has been done in a very serious way. There the impact of the digital economy has been seen and it has been concluded that the damage was much lower than was traditionally concluded. With us, the amounts per capita are much higher. I believe that we can get along with the neighbouring countries. In my view, our economy is not so different from many other European countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u116	Mr Minister, since November Colombia has imposed anti-dumping duties on frozen fries imported from Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. According to the Bogota Government, the measure was imposed because the chips were imported at dumped prices. At the request of Belgium, the European Commission will launch consultations with Colombia on the anti-dumping duties on frozen fries in the wake of the World Trade Organisation. This decision comes after consultation with Minister Reynders and the European Commissioner for Trade. The Colombian measure mainly affects SMEs in Belgium who try to sell the national export product worldwide. Belgium has already had bilateral contacts with Colombia on this matter, but they have not yet made any progress. Minister, has the proposal of higher rates been effectively adopted by the Colombian Government? Is it just the three countries mentioned, or are other countries, whether or not they come from the European Union, falling under the scope of this measure? Do you see a broader tendency on the part of the BRIC countries to impose tariffs against our country or against the European Union, also in view of the fact that South Africa is taking similar measures, like Brazil, which is part of MERCOSUR? Do you discuss this with Minister Reynders and the Regions? Finally, when can we expect a decision from the World Trade Organisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u117	Ms Gantois, on 1 November 2018, the Colombian Committee de Prácticas Comerciales adopted a recommendation imposing a definitive anti-dumping measure on imports of frozen foods originating in Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. However, the measure has not yet been officially published and is therefore not yet in force. The Colombian anti-dumping proceeding is only directed against imports of frozen fries from Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. After South Africa and Brazil, Colombia is indeed a third country to fish for imports of Belgian frozen fries. In order to avoid a wider tendency to impose such tariffs, Didier Reynders, my Foreign Affairs colleague, after prior intra-Belgian consultations involving the Regions, drew attention to this issue at the Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade Council on 9 November 2018. It is clear that the Netherlands and Germany have supported Belgium in this respect. A dispute settlement procedure at the WTO could take several years, especially in view of the current blocking by the US of the appointment of the judges of the Applete Body. First there is a consultation phase, after which a panel has to be composed. That panel needs to draw up a report. The parties concerned may then appeal against this decision. We will do everything we can to get the problem off the ground as soon as possible. If the dispute settlement procedure is to be completed, I fear that we will have to be patient for a while. That is why we express all our hopes in the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders, who has already raised the issue. With the support of the Netherlands and Germany, we can hopefully reverse the decision of the Prácticas Comerciales Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic997x.u118	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope, along with you, that this measure will not come into force. It is not reassuring that such a WTO procedure could take years. In the meantime, a lot of bad can happen. I believe that all ministers must act together against this. Nor can Europe regulate à la tête du client. Europe is there for all its members and not just for the Member States. I hope that the regulation will not enter into force and will not be extended to other countries. We must try to avoid this at all costs, because it is about one of our most beautiful products.
