ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u1	Colleagues, I'm going to have to share health and commercial law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u2	This is a recurring question from Mr. Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u3	Madam President, Madam Minister, indeed, the last time I asked a question on this subject was on December 15, 2015, or about two and a half years ago. The problem arises for citizens of French nationality who die in our territory, knowing that the Franco-Belgian border region receives many French citizens, particularly in nursing homes and hospitals. I am speaking here for the region that concerns me, namely Chimay, Dinant, Mont-Godinne, but this is true throughout the entire Franco-Belgian border. To take stock of this case, I would remind you that when a French citizen dies in France and the family wants a funeral ceremony to take place in France, we must place the remains in a coffin that must be zinc-plated, hermetic and sealed, in the presence of the police who write a report. Moreover, the seals cannot be legally broken, which means, for example, that the family cannot see the body again, if that is its wish. There is also the question of the cumbersome nature of the procedure and the additional costs involved. In the event of cremation, in Belgium, this is complicated because, in this case, the funeral company must go to France with the deceased for the funeral and then return to Belgium to continue cremation operations and, there, in the presence of the police, the seals are removed to remove the body from the zinc coffin and then to put it back in a wooden coffin. So the family has to buy two coffins. At that time, cremation can take place. On the other hand, the ashes can go back to France without problems. Minister, I had already told you this problem, a while ago. In the past, this legislation was justified for health reasons, but it is now completely obsolete. As of December 15, 2015, you told me that negotiations were under way and that there were about 3,000 laissez-passer per year for repatriations of bodies to France. I think it was only France and not all of our neighbouring countries. Minister, what is the status of these negotiations, two and a half years later? Has your administration had any contact with the French association "Association Soins Médicaux Users de la Pointe" (ASMUP 08)? Has the Commission contacted the Belgian authorities and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? What answers did she receive? Is it correct that, on the French side, the authorities have prepared a text to simplify procedures? Has this text been submitted to you and when? Is a draft bilateral agreement under negotiation in this context? Is it on the agenda to review administrative standards in order to ease and simplify the constraints on the carriage of goods between our two countries? If so, to what extent and within what time frame will these changes be operational? What are your interlocutors on the French side? I conclude by saying that a similar cross-border agreement exists with the Netherlands. I don't know what's going on with Germany. But the question arises with all our neighbours anyway: Luxembourg, Germany, the Netherlands. We have a cross-border agreement with the Netherlands. I therefore wonder why we cannot reach a similar agreement, unless you give us good news. I have the same question with regard to the amendment of our legislation, because you have stated that it should be amended, in particular by means of a Royal Decree of the Regent, in order to resolve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u4	Mr Delizée, to the knowledge of my services, the Association of Medical Care Users of the Pointe (ASMUP 08) has not yet contacted the Belgian authorities or the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We are indeed working on the revision of the administrative standards to make the procedures for the transport of remains between Belgium and France more flexible and simpler on two levels. First of all, the Belgian authorities are in discussions with the French authorities to find an acceptable solution to cross-border transport allowing incineration. In recent years, several draft treaties have been proposed by either country. The last proposed by France, in 2017, is currently the subject of an intra-Belgian consultation. In addition, my public health SPF services are also in talks with the Belgian authorities with competence in this field (municipal authorities, for example), since the Belgian legislative framework implies an obligation to use a zinc coffin for the issuance of a death pass. We want to make the regulations currently in force more flexible by ensuring the safety of the transport of remains. On the occasion of the EPSCO Summit in Luxembourg, I had the opportunity to speak with my new colleague from Public Health, Mrs Agnès Buzyn, who succeeds Marisol Touraine and at which I was able to discuss the need for a cross-border agreement. She took note of it. The presidential elections slowed down the file, but it seems possible to guarantee health security without zinc sealed coffins. Today, other means are at our disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u5	Madam Minister, thank you. I see you're working on simplification, but time passes. Do you think we will succeed before the end of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u6	Yes. In the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u7	Of which act! I did not mention Germany, but with the Netherlands we have a bilateral agreement to which I shall return. Can the arrangements agreed with that country, adapted to French legislation, not serve as a basis? What is the situation with Germany too? Many families are affected by this problem. There are extra costs. Situations are really complicated. Good if you've been able to raise awareness of your new French colleague. I hope that you will be keen to continue this work and to find a solution before the end of this Parliament. I'll come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u8	Madam President, Madam Minister, I will have a little preliminary comment. At the last meeting of this committee, I explained that the answers to the oral questions turned into written questions had still not been transmitted fifteen days later. We are now a month later and five answers have not yet been given. These issues may be politically boring, but the limits are being reached. Either I repose them today, and the minister answers me in session, or...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u9	Have you received any answers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u10	Yes, but five answers have not yet arrived. I have the reference numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u11	Please give them to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u12	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u13	There's something abnormal. The other members' questions have all passed, as we have said. We can't find any more questions from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u14	From memory, I received three or four. They arrived in the last 48 hours; I wonder if it wasn't yesterday. It still took a month. And there's five left. These have not yet been sent. I confess to you, my patience has its limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u15	Give us the data. You can look and find out where the problem is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u16	I'll check with the numbers. I took them back with me. I did get a series of them. In the meantime, I am no longer turning into written questions and will do reading exercises until I get answers to my questions from a month ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u17	For me, it's the same thing. I have the answers to the questions with me. I don't know what happened, but it's not from our home. They sent the answers again. They must have looked and I think the possibility of a coucac having taken place here is not to be excluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u18	Maybe. That's why I'm saying we have to give the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u19	Madam President, I now come to my question. Madam Minister, in your general policy note, you indicated that an amount of € 22.5 million would be released to allow the reimbursement of clinician psychologists in 2018 and that the resources would be allocated to the Article 107 networks. I asked you about how this measure was implemented, but you did not answer my questions. During the May 16 hearings of the "psy" sector on the reform of Royal Decree 78, the field actors told us that they had been consulted, but were waiting for your feedback on how you were going to take into account, or not, their comments. Madam Minister, could you tell us how the EUR 22.5 million budget will be used? Will this only be in the context of networks 107? How many patients can be reimbursed? Which patients will they be affected? All, or particular profiles? How long will the reimbursement of the salary be authorized? What will be the amount of the refund? How will this reimbursement relate to the reimbursement of psychological care provided by certain supplementary insurances of the mutuals? Is it in place or is it in addition? Will specific rules be laid down? Do you consider, in addition to this specific measure, adopting a comprehensive policy for the reimbursement of psychological care, as desired by the actors in the "psy" sector? Do you intend to implement all the recommendations made by the KCE in its 265B report? This would consist of a two-storey model, with a generalist first level, widely accessible, to accommodate without restriction current and moderate psychic problems, and a second level, of restricted access, but allowing specialized care to those for whom the first level is not sufficient. What are your intentions for the future? Only an amount for 2018 has been announced. Will there be any changes in the budget, but also in the reimbursement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u20	Mrs Fonck, for various parts of your question, I should like to refer you to my answer of 19 June to the questions put by Mrs Muylle and Mrs Dedry. I will focus on the elements that have not yet been answered. First, the amounts will vary depending on the status of the increased intervention. Beneficiaries of increased intervention status will have to pay EUR 4. Non-recipients will have to pay EUR 11 directly to the healthcare provider. The psychologist or orthopedagogue clinician will receive the rest of his remuneration via the psychiatric hospital with which he has entered into a contract. As far as compulsory insurance is concerned, I hope that mutual societies will take the necessary steps for this first stage. But, unfortunately, this initiative is somewhat beyond my control. In doing so, the said mutualities are free to organize this as they see fit. I agree with your request for a comprehensive mental health care policy. It is precisely because of the implementation of health care networks that we have a chance to achieve a comprehensive and integrated approach to mental health care. A refund on the front line, long absent, may also be part of it. The KCE opinion contained a number of interesting perspectives that were adopted. But for others, the government has made a different choice. It is now necessary to implement them and to see how this will work. As far as the budget is concerned, we are still in the technical discussions. As you know, I never predict anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u21	My question was tabled in May. I do not know whether it was you, Madam President, or whether it was your office, the minister, that decided not to include this issue with those of June 19. In any case, for my part, I would have preferred to be able to ask this question on that date rather than today. Having said that, Madam Minister, will there be time limits on the number of sessions taken care of or, as long as it is considered necessary, amounts will be provided (4 euros for BIM patients, 11 euros for others)? Will there be a time limit or number of consultations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u22	This will depend on the diagnosis because it is the target group that is targeted here. Treatments for primary mental health care are discussed. So, yes, it will be limited according to the diagnosis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u23	And in number of sessions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u24	There are still a lot of nebula in these amounts and under these conditions of reimbursement. I hope that we can have some clarifications. When I say 'we', it is, first and foremost, the patients and caregivers concerned, since we are talking about the amount of EUR 22 million and, finally, we are already in July. On the other hand, I draw your attention to the fact that there is no discrimination on the part of caregivers. My fear is that the logic that prevails, namely having to have a contract with a psychiatric hospital, risks de facto excluding many psychologists – I use the term generically – and would prevent their patients from accessing a reimbursement, which I would find really unfair. I ask you to be extremely attentive to this aspect, minister. A whole series of proposals are made by the actors on the ground. I plead for you to consult closely with them on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u25	Question No 26694 by Mrs Els Van Hoof is transformed into a written question. Mrs Van Hoof asked for her arrival to be waited for her question No 25719. Questions Nos 25760 and 25971 by Benoît Piedboeuf are transformed into written questions. With regard to Mrs Fonck's comment on untransmitted answers, I insist that before the end of the meeting, we understand what happened. Question No 25821 by Mrs Catherine Fonck is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u26	Minister, the French government's Secretary of State for Sustainable Development announced that the French agri-food industry would soon no longer be able to use food colouring E171. It is a white dye applied to foods such as confectionery and pastries. It is even part of the composition of certain toothpastes and medicines. The E171 was banned in France for reasons of public health, as it would contain microparticles which could, in the long term, prove to be dangerous to the organism. The European Food Safety Authority, for its part, has not yet prohibited its use. Minister, you said you wanted to wait for the EFSA's opinion to be able to take action. So I come to my questions. Is the danger of this dye unanimous among health experts? When will the EFSA's opinion be given to you? If it is unfavourable, will you decide to ban this dye?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u27	Minister, I will add a few references to Ms. Galant's question. Dr Alfred Bernard, research director at the FNRS, insists that this dye does not provide food and that it is composed of micro- and nano-metal particles, which can cross the intestinal barrier without being metabolised, so that they accumulate in the liver, kidneys or brain. This is of particular concern for children, where the digestive walls are still immature. These particles could therefore move throughout the body. In addition, some candy producers have anticipated the problem. For example, M&M's Europe is committed to eliminating this substance and all artificial dyes by June 2020. Madam Minister, in view of this decision and the measures taken in France, would it not be appropriate to encourage such initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u28	Mrs Galant and Mrs Gerkens, the safety of titanium dioxide dye, known as E171, is currently being re-examined under the European programme for the re-evaluation of food additives. It is a time-consuming process that involves managing uncertainties. There is currently follow-up to the opinion on E171 issued in 2016 by the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA. Information on this subject is publicly available on the European Commission's website. The 2016 opinion concluded that the data were insufficient. The European Commission then launched a data call to fill the gaps identified by EFSA. Manufacturers have committed themselves to providing this data within the deadlines set. We're waiting for these. These additional data will then be evaluated by EFSA. If such data are not provided in time, the Commission will then propose a regulation to withdraw the authorisation. At the same time and at the express request of France, the Commission asked EFSA a supplementary question, given the recent scientific publications which had not yet been taken into account in the 2016 opinion. The EFSA will respond specifically to this question by the end of June and this response will be published in the course of July. It was announced this way, but it's a little late. Belgium's position on possible measures to be taken will depend on the opinion of EFSA. In the meantime, France has not yet taken any national measures. At the political level, there is a draft text aimed at suspending the use of this dye. This draft text has yet to be discussed in the French parliament. It remains to be seen whether or not there will be a national measure. The Agence nationale de sécurité santé de l'alimentation, de l'environnement et du travail (ANSES), the French body for risk assessment, also collaborates with EFSA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u29	Thank you, Minister. I assume that, for EFSA's opinion, this should follow in the course of the month.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u30	We will therefore wait for this opinion, but I would like to add one element. Frankly, what is the point of supporting the production of artificial dyes? This brings nothing to the food level. It is also possible to have natural dyes if you want colors. I think there's really a fight to be fought. Belgium should move towards exclusively natural and no longer artificial dyes, whatever they may be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u31	Minister, the NGS project will be in place by November of this year. This is a new innovative technique to detect the appearance of cancerous tumours and to allow for better treatment. This test costs about 350 euros. Your ministry has released an annual budget of €5.1 million as well as €4 million for the reimbursement of diagnoses and the financing of the convention. This project is expected to last 3 years and is targeted at approximately 20,000 patients, who are expected to spend around 8 euros. Minister, can you give us a detailed account of how the implementation of this system will take place on the ground? Which hospitals or laboratories have already shown interest? Have you set limits according to the budget allocated? Have other European countries shown signs of interest in joining this project? Have you ever discussed this with your European counterparts? Finally, can you confirm that the results of the NGS tests that will be included in the healthdata database and available to all doctors will be anonymous?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u32	Madam Minister, you will provide an annual budget of €4 million for the next three years to reimburse 20,000 tests for cancer patients. They should only pay a maximum of 8 euros. Minister, what are the terms of your project? What clinical indications will NGS tests be reimbursed for? When do you plan an evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u33	The implementation process is described on the INAMI website. It is necessary to work in networks of expertise that form a platform of technical and clinical knowledge in which medical oncology, clinical biology, pathological anatomy and genetics work in a multidisciplinary way. This means targeting networks from at least one laboratory and two hospitals. The laboratory must have participated in the Sciensano benchmarking study, hospitals must carry out at least 500 multidisciplinary oncology consultations annually and have properly trained personnel for the execution and interpretation of the next generation sequence. Each network can apply to INAMI to join this agreement. Implementation of this agreement will begin this fall and, after three years, it will be assessed whether the NGS test allows for better, faster and more cost-effective molecular diagnoses in oncology and haematology. Improvement may, at best, be expressed in terms of quality and longer survival for the patient, but also in terms of avoiding unnecessary treatments for greater patient satisfaction and or reducing the total cost of molecular diagnosis. In addition, NGS networks will report on their activities every 12 months. The last major evaluation will take place after three years but, in the meantime, evaluations will be conducted annually. The cancer centre will develop a standard format in collaboration with these NGS networks and INAMI. In the activity report, the list of NGS tests performed will be detailed. A budget analysis will be included, including personnel costs, depreciation and purchase of equipment and reagents. This information will allow a correct price calculation for the future introduction of an NGS service into the nomenclature. Similarly, the bottlenecks and the points of improvement identified may be indicated. The specific indications can be found on the INAMI website, which includes a list. These include seven haematological cancers and ten solid tumours, including advanced colorectal cancer, lung cancer, melanoma and breast cancer. For each type of tumour, there is a panel of specific genes, which a laboratory must analyze in order for a refund to be allowed. The indication and the panel shall be determined on the basis of the advice of the broad group of experts and shall be updated every six months. Sixteen laboratories participated in the solid cancer assessment tests. Fifteen participated in the comparative tests of haematological cancers. A total of 18 laboratories are involved. It is assumed that they are interested in these projects. The criteria must be met by all networks of expertise, the number of which has not been defined. The goal is to ensure maximum accessibility for each patient. The NGS project has already been presented at various European forums, attended by policy makers from other Member States, as well as the Joint Action CanCon, the group of cancer experts, the innovative partnership for the fight against cancer. The Belgian approach to introducing this new diagnosis in an integrated manner was welcomed. I am thinking in particular of the central recording of the results, which will enable us to evaluate f at present the effectiveness of the therapies. Similarly, it was considered very useful that the gradual introduction of NGS technology, in close consultation with patients, allow informed consent and public debate on the use of genomic information in the health system and our society. The data collected as part of the Next Generation Sequencing project are stored, processed and analyzed in the healthdata.be warehouse, a Sciensano-dependent service. The pseudo-anonymized and non-anonymized data are concerned. Pseudo-anonymization is performed at the time of data transfer using the eHealth platform, which functions as a trusted third party. This means that healthdata.be employees and researchers do not know the identity of patients. The rights of access and use of data shall be defined in the authorisation of the Sectoral Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u34	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. I will consult the INAMI website and be attentive to the report on the NGS project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u35	Madam President, I have nothing to add. The answer was extremely comprehensive. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u36	Minister, according to an American study, it appears that up to 70% of breast cancer patients could, depending on the results of an existing genetic test, avoid chemotherapy and its terrible side effects, and be content with hormonal drugs. Indeed, this genetic test gives the tumor a recurrence score of between zero and one hundred. Thus, patients who score less than ten do not need chemotherapy, unlike those who score more than 26, who are advised a chemo. But often patients get intermediate scores, between 11 and 25. In this case and in doubt, physicians generally tend to prescribe chemotherapy, with the side effects that are known. However, according to the findings of this research, the use of chemotherapy in women whose results are in this grey area would be unnecessary. Only the most risky cases should undergo chemo after the tumor has been removed. The MammaPrint gene expression test is used to determine the degree of aggressiveness of the tumour. However, it is not reimbursed in our country, since a KCE study has even given a negative opinion on this subject. Minister, I have no doubt that you were able to read the study that I am referring to. What is your view of it? In view of the results of this study, particularly as regards the possibility for many women to avoid heavy treatment of chemotherapy, would you be prepared to allow reimbursement of this MammaPrint test? If so, how? If not, how do you justify your decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u37	Madam President, thank you. I will not repeat the contextual elements that Mr. Senesael has set out very well. On the other hand, here are some additional elements. Think-Pink has asked you to introduce a systematic reimbursement of the MammaPrint tests for patients. Your firm would have specified that the results of the U.S. study will be reviewed in collaboration with the Cancer Centre. The Federal Centre of Expertise for Health Care (KCE) provided a negative opinion on the subject. One of the reasons given would be the total cost of a chemotherapy treatment against the cost of a MammaPrint test, which currently amounts to €3,000. However, the actual cost of chemotherapy treatment does not seem to have been taken into account in this approach and I mean the duration of incapacity for work or the costs associated with side effects to mention only them. Minister, what are the terms of your study? On what criteria will you conduct this analysis? When do you plan an evaluation? You are aware that everything that concerns the assessments matters to me very much. Thank you for the answers that you would like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u38	Thank you for your questions, gentlemen. It is true that an American study tested the Oncotype DX diagnostic test similar to the MammaPrint test but it is based on an expression analysis of 21 genes instead of 70. The KCE 298 report was based on MammaPrint because at that time it was the only test with results in an at random study with all needs. As you say, the KCE report gives a negative opinion on the reimbursement of MammaPrint as a diagnostic test. This treatment would avoid chemotherapy without the risk of the tumour progressing. This report is based on a detailed analysis of a five-year follow-up carried out in the MINDACT study. This study examined whether it was possible to dispense chemotherapy to women who had benefited from MammaPrint at an early stage of breast cancer with a high risk of progression. It was based on other diagnostic tests and a clinical evaluation. There were approximately 30,000 women in the group, including 6,300 at an early stage of cancer. KCE concludes that the results of the MINDACT study are not sufficient to demonstrate that avoiding chemotherapy based on the MammaPrint outcome is at least as good as the current treatment strategy with respect to the chances of survival 10 years after this choice and with respect to the quality of life. In addition, the KCE found that 47% of women under 71 years of age, in an early stage of cancer and taking into account chemotherapy, are still not treated with chemotherapy in Belgium. As there is under-treatment of chemotherapy in our country, KCE wonders to what extent this test will prevent chemotherapy and in this way allow cost reductions. There were two sessions of the Plaform Companion Diagnostic working group bringing together experts from all the centres in the country. The KCE, the Cancer Registry, insurance and INAMI also participate. The results of the DX Oncotype have been known since June 3. There was another working group last week on 28 June. This working group will compare MammaPrint with Oncotype DX. He will also investigate the causes of under-treatment with chemotherapy in Belgium, as demonstrated by the KCE study. On the basis of these two analyses, this working group will also examine whether the analysis of genetic expression can have therapeutic added value, as well as the cost-effectiveness of treatments in Belgium. I have not yet received any news from this working group. It is obviously interesting for us to see if it is necessary to repay this type of test, both or one of them, and under what terms, and in what cases. Rather, they will be people with breast cancer at a certain stage. I respect Think-Pink, but it's not as simple as they think. We need a stronger basis, because the risks involved are enormous. It is a matter of deciding not to treat to see if the disease is changing or not. It's not evidence-based, and ethically, it's a very heavy decision for the women involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u39	A short reply, Madam President. Minister, I do not paraphrase, in my reply, your detailed and reasoned answer. I simply assume that you are waiting for the results of this working group and the two sessions that have already been held. In the meantime, you refer to the KCE report and your decision will apply depending on the evolution of these results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u40	Thank you, minister, I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u41	Madam President, Minister, the Centre Médical Héliporté in Bra-sur-Lienne, if it does not have a genuine official recognition, has an agreement with the SPF Santé publique to which it sends a detailed and comprehensive report of its interventions every year. These amounted to almost 1,300 in 2017 and there have already been 630 since 1 January 2018. That is to say, the importance of this service within the region; that is, the importance of this service specifically for the provinces of Luxembourg, Namur and Liège. However, there is still serious concern not only within the CMH but also among the population concerned by its services. The reform of the emergency medical aid you are preparing and the place you will give to the CMH in this context are called into question here. Some members of your firm would have suggested that you did not see the usefulness of this helicopter and that, according to your reform, it would in the future be strictly reserved for the transfer of patients between hospitals, excluding any urgent medical assistance. Minister, the accessibility of care in rural areas is an essential dimension to which we must be attentive and provide effective solutions. The CMH is undeniably part of it. Will you confirm that you are continuing the financing of the CMH of Bra-sur-Lienne, as was the case until today and as is the case for the heliported SMUR of Bruges? If so, how much? What can be his missions in the future? Will the CMH be able to continue to carry out primary emergency medical assistance interventions? Your reform provides for a service-level agreement (SLA) so that an ambulance arrives at the patient within a quarter of an hour in 90% of cases across the country. What are the 10% of cases that will not be covered by this ALS? It is clear that these are in particular the regions covered by the CMH of Bra-sur-Lienne. Do you confirm this? So could you really dispense with its services in these rural areas in the future and for which your reform does not provide for other solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u42	Madam President, Madam Minister, as a number of points have already been raised by my colleague, I will go directly to the point both in terms of the helicopter component and in terms of rural areas in the province of Luxembourg, in the province of Liège, in the province of Namur, but also in the south of the province of Hainaut, which is particularly poorly covered. You have spoken on several occasions on the reform of emergency medical aid, particularly on three important points. On the one hand, you said that there was an urgent intervention within 15 minutes for 90% of citizens. On the other hand, the ambulances concerned would be the ordinary ambulances, the PITs and the SMURs, only on the ground. Finally, funding would be proposed by urgent transport of €45 per race. Minister, these three factors lead me to question you because, on the basis of these three principles, we necessarily have a whole series of difficulties that arise. What about the 10% for which there will not be an urgent intervention within 15 minutes? For 10% of these people, it is territorial difficulties that mean that a ground ambulance cannot be present within fifteen minutes. The rural areas I have just mentioned are therefore directly concerned. From the moment you propose a financing of 45 euros per emergency transport race, whether by regular ambulance, PIT or SMUR, while we know that the average cost per race in the Walloon Region is 150 euros, there is a major difficulty. The financial gap is huge. At a meeting of the governors at the level of the Ministry of the Interior attended by one of your collaborators, it was clarified that only the land resources would be in charge of urgent medical aid in Belgium tomorrow. Therefore, the specific question of the Heliporté Bra-sur-Lienne Medical Centre was asked at this meeting of the governors at the Ministry of the Interior. Your law clerk responded. I have here in front of me what the governors present at this meeting have to do. According to your firm's vision, "the helicopter vector in emergency medical aid was not an idea to defend, especially on the basis of literature and experience of neighbouring countries". On the RTL-TVI platform, however, you have announced, despite what your firm has said, that this was a fake news. The least we can say is that this different information does not match. It is good to come to a television set to try to get away with it, but then, minister, I would like you to clarify what was said at this meeting with provincial governors. Yes or no, will the helicopter always be seen in its rural specificity as essential given the difficulty on the ground of being able to provide a reasonable period of time? The target should be to reach 100% coverage within 15 minutes. We cannot afford to look at rural areas lightly. It is necessary to use a technical vector and the helicopter is required to respond in an effective emergency. Moreover, it is my responsibility that at yesterday's interministerial conference this subject should have been (or has been) addressed. I would like to know the conclusions that have emerged.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u43	Minister, I have little more to add. The context is the same and the same concerns have come to me with contradictory information between your cabinet representative at this meeting of provincial governors and your reaction that there was a misunderstanding. My questions are the same. Will there be a continuation of the Heliporté Medical Centre pilot project or not? If inter-hospital patient transport is to be carried out, this would be an additional and complementary mission with additional funding. I would like information on the timing, the proposed developments and the proposed modifications to the Bra-sur-Lienne and Bruges helicopter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u44	Thank you, ladies, for your questions. Yes, as far as the reform of emergency medical aid is concerned, we are actually trying to adapt its funding. Why was urgent medical aid reform needed? So far, there were no standards, no service-level agreement of fifteen minutes. We have recorded all the data in the emergency aid centres and we have found a problem in rural areas, in different provinces as you point out, but especially in the provinces of Luxembourg and Hainaut. I have tripled the budget in this Parliament. Previously, they had 26 million, now they have 78. The aim was to introduce more adequate funding for emergency medical aid. This adapted funding must lead to a Belgian system of means of emergency medical aid that is viable, at the service of patients and defined by quality criteria. At the same time, I am currently reviewing the organisation of the offer, in collaboration with the sector. Here too, additional investment is needed. For the first time since 1964, a service-level agreement will be introduced as part of emergency medical assistance, in 90% of interventions. To date, there have been no standards in this regard. By introducing this standard and starting to record the corresponding data, we will also be able in the future to identify areas where problems arise and further improve the supply by adding a PIT, a SMUR or an ambulance. I fully understand the request to pay particular attention to the needs of rural areas. From the outset, I want to reassure you. Indeed, the guarantee of achieving the standard of service level agreement also for rural areas is an important point of attention and a priority within the framework of this reform. That's why my collaborator said that, for us, in 2018 and 2019, we really will have to act on the ground. For citizens, there are also advantages. The intention is indeed to switch to a flat rate per intervention. For the ambulance service, we will move towards three-pronged funding, as requested: - the lump sum billing component for users of the service, but this depends on the length of time the ambulance needs; - the permanence component: for the time being, when there are no calls, the agents are not paid; - the activation subsidy component, which provides for a geographical correction to compensate for any losses for rural areas. Again, we have taken into account rural areas in order to have the opportunity to make corrections. I have asked my administration to collect the necessary data to simulate, for all services, the financial revenues of these three components for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020. According to several scenarios, the guideline I gave to the administration for these simulations is simple: to ensure that the service is not in loss, the 2017 revenues being the benchmark. These simulations were submitted to the analysis of the National Council for Urgent Medical Aid, which met at the end of last month and gave a positive opinion. As for the medical centre in Bra-sur-Lienne, the fake news related to the lack of ambulance in the plan. This is still a pilot project after 11 years. This does not mean, however, that we refuse any funding. For information, Mr. Frédéric, this report - which is public - is not very detailed, although it contains many photos of how the helicopter works. I insist: funding will be guaranteed for the two study projects concerning the usefulness of this device in the framework of a SMUR programming. It is true, however, that the literature confirms that this use does not add value to urgent medical aid. The financing of the contract will be maintained at 62,500 euros on an annual basis. For the remainder of the study project, after eleven years, I consider it time to take stock. The last opinion of the National Council for Emergency Medical Aid dates back to 2010. I have therefore asked the Council to look again at the issue of the means of emergency medical aid by helicopter. The Council put it on the agenda of a scheduled meeting. They decided to set up a working group to draft an opinion on the subject. Yesterday, during the Interministerial Conference, during the numerous varia - as numerous as the items on the agenda of the meeting - Mrs Greoli asked me, as she had announced in the press, to explain to her. Mr Bellot had written to me before and we had replied in writing at the end of June. I printed the answer sent to Mr. Bellot and transferred it by mail to Ms. Greoli. It has seen that there is currently no question of abolishing the financing of the helicopter. In addition, there is also the reform of the land-based means of emergency medical assistance. We will continue in this direction. At each stage, we are accompanied by the National Emergency Medical Relief Council. That is how we work. We continue to invest resources in urgent medical assistance. It's been a long time since it was necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u45	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. With regard to the ongoing reform and the tripling of budgets, I have no difficulty. The same applies to the implementation of service-level agreements. Except that 10 per cent of the population may not be covered, especially in rural areas. This remains a concern, even if you say you will pay particular attention. As far as the Bra-sur-Lienne helicopter is concerned, you say you maintain the initial funding. It's not a recognition of service. These are simply means of obtaining an annual report – which you say is little detailed with many photos, even if that is not what I have seen – which does not correspond to the financing of the institution itself, since it is mainly the municipalities concerned in the provinces of Luxembourg, Liège, Namur and, as Mrs Fonck adds, from the south of Hainaut, as well as the provinces and 120 000 members of the ASBL, privately, who finance it. I recall that this institution conducted 1,300 interventions in 2017 and already 630 since the beginning of the year. There is one question that I have not had a satisfactory answer to. What missions will be given to this helicopter tomorrow? As you have indicated, will they only be able to transport between two hospitals as part of the reform of hospital services? Will they be able to continue their front-line interventions following calls 112? You replied that the reflection was entrusted to the National Emergency Medical Council. You're waiting for his conclusions, but I expect more. I wait until we can answer the people concerned or who have been. The geography of our rural areas, especially in the French-speaking part of the country, is not the same as elsewhere. Making a heart attack in the middle of the village of Rahier, which I invite you to discover, does not give as much chance as doing in the middle of the dike of La Panne. I do not want to communitize the question, but that is what this is all about. So I have no reassuring answer to the missions that will be entrusted to the Heliporté Medical Centre in Bra-sur-Lienne.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u46	Minister, thank you for that answer. As this is a matter of ongoing reform, I would like to share some thoughts with you. It is certainly positive to move forward on standards and above all on requirements for patient intervention. The difficulty lies in the fact that a number of patients will not be able to benefit from urgent intervention, knowing that, for some pathologies, 15 minutes is already very long. I'm not saying we have to set the target at five minutes. It's unrealizable! But 15 minutes is clearly a goal that we must be able to achieve throughout the territory. The government must aim to be able to cover 100% of the population within 15 minutes. If this objective is not set, whole sections of regions will not be covered in the same way. Of course, the 10% will not be geographically distributed with a few patients in this area throughout the country, but will be concentrated in certain regions and, in particular, in rural areas with relatively limited coverage of land-based means of access. You have announced that you have requested a simulation of the three packages for rural areas. Can you complete this simulation so that we can look at what it gives to the patient's coverage and what geographic areas will not be covered by an intervention within 15 minutes? Finally, with regard to the helicopter, you are officially announcing to Parliament, if I can say so, that there will be a continuation of the financing of the 62,500 euros per year. This is, in my view, an essential point. But I am making an additional request which seems logical to me, given the configuration of the intervention which must be possible within a reasonable period of time everywhere. So, could you look at the issue of structural integration of this helicopter into the AMU approach, in a manner complementary to land-based interventions and in a specific way where necessary and particularly in rural areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u47	Madam Minister, I would like to highlight the concern about the quality of interventions, in particular emergency medical assistance interventions. This, of course, is a priority that I share. Having said that, I also do not think I have received a precise answer about the current interventions in the context of emergency medical assistance and transportation between hospitals that are too far away. There is a difference between your expression and that of your cabinet at the meeting with the governors: before the governors it is understood that there will be only intra-hospital transport and you, you say that both will be maintained. At the same time, I understand in your answer that in relation to maintaining the intervention, you say that more is needed to ensure that it is a positive, quality and necessary intervention. So I'm asking for my understanding of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u48	Mr Frédéric's question stated that when there is a service-level agreement, an ambulance must arrive within 15 minutes for 90% of citizens and that therefore 10% of citizens would not be covered. It is not fair: they are covered and as quickly as possible, but not within fifteen minutes. It's planned, but it's really an already optimal result. I dare not tell you how long they currently need to get to a patient with the system that has been installed and that has worked for years and years. In some cases, it takes 40 minutes for ambulances to reach patients, sometimes even more. The current situation is dramatic. The helicopter's missions don't change. The funding remains, their operation – which is regulated by an ASBL – continues to carry out their missions. It has just been said that the current means, the budgets that have tripled, will be the money that is needed to optimize urgent medical assistance on earth, on the ground, so not by air. I just want to tell you that there are two pilot projects for eleven years in Bruges and Bra-sur-Lienne. If you ask me, Mrs Fonck, – and this can certainly be calculated – to implement urgent medical aid with helicopters across the country, this cannot be done by multiplying pilotage projects. Then we will have to put out a tender for the whole country. Other hospitals will therefore opt for a helicopter and the cost will be much higher than what is currently in the pipeline. This exercise can be made easy, but if it is really implemented in the emergency medical aid plan in the country, it is not just pilot projects. There will then have to be a tender and there will be many more candidates. The question then is whether this is limited to rural areas or whether it is possible anywhere. Is it possible to carry out other tasks, such as the boarding of donor bodies or the securing of secondary transport? We can go as far as we want, but in the years to come there will have to be a lot more resources. I'm definitely asking for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u49	The last word is for parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u50	Indeed, even if I don't want to abuse it. Madam Minister, I am not relaunching the debate, but when you yourself say that it takes 45 minutes to intervene in certain areas today, you are only doing one thing: demonstrating the usefulness of implementing more appropriate means for certain regions, and the helicopter is certainly one of the tracks. Secondly, you have just taken another step. You have confirmed the funding, but you say that today and even tomorrow, the missions will not vary. I therefore understand that urgent interventions following calls to number 112 can be carried out by helicopters. And you add an extra element. As part of this reform, you will ask for this reflection on the use of air tools to be incorporated. If this is to be included in the law, we will have to do public procurement. That makes absolutely sense. I take note of the elements and thank you. We will follow this with interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u51	Madam Minister, I asked you earlier to go beyond the funding of the 62,500 euros essential for the helicopter, and to integrate helicopters structurally into the AMU approach. When I say structural, of course, I'm not talking about turning all our ambulances into heliported ambulances. It is a question of examining structurally which geographical areas are poorly or poorly covered, or in which, in any case, either with ordinary ambulances, PITs or SMURs, we know very well that we will not be able to intervene within fifteen minutes. Yes, a structural integration of the heliport approach needs to be considered. We will have to intervene in a specific way in the regions that absolutely need it, as well as in certain specific missions. That was the meaning of my request. Thank you for examining this point. I believe that the future, in terms of AMU as well, goes through this, in a way complementary to all that is terrestrial intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u52	We will return to this issue in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u53	Questions Nos 25951 and 26023 by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u54	President: Yoleen Van Camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u55	Minister, according to a recent report by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, 2.3 million young Europeans between the ages of 15 and 34 have used cocaine in the last year. This figure represents 5.1% of this age group. Seizures of this drug within the European Union continue to increase. Belgium is very sadly ranked first in the European classification of seizures. Thus, in 2016, 43 per cent of cocaine seizures in Europe, representing about 30 tons, were made in our country. Our country thus doubles Spain, illustrating the change of the main import routes, the major ports of the north, Antwerp and Zeebruges, dethroning the classic routes via Spain and Portugal. Minister, the rise in cocaine use in Belgium is worrying, particularly among young people. We are witnessing a kind of banalization of this drug, yet very harmful. Hence my question: even though I know that prevention is the responsibility of the Communities, what can you do to make young people aware of the danger of this product? How can this growth in consumption be halted? In addition, do you have data on cocaine use among young people aged 15 to 34 living in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u56	Mr Flahaux, early detection and prevention are priorities and it is indeed essential to raise awareness of the risks of cocaine and drugs in general. I am not competent in this matter, but the 'Drugs' cell in the Interministerial Conference met again yesterday. Former President Brice De Ruyver was replaced by Etienne De Groot. I think it is a job to continue with the Communities. It is not only about drugs but also about addiction to gambling and everything that exists as addictions. There is no specific drug treatment for cocaine use, although treatment for withdrawal symptoms may be given. Psychological follow-up is also recommended, as well as consultations with doctors specializing in the treatment of addictions. The latest figures on this subject are contained in the 2016 Belgian report of the Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction: 0.9% of people aged 15 to 34 have used cocaine at least once in the last 12 months. These are the most recent figures available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u57	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is clear that consumption is primarily favoured by imports, with Belgium, and Antwerp in particular, becoming a crossroads for cocaine imports. As a result of this influx, cocaine is becoming less and less expensive, thus promoting and facilitating the use of cocaine. I believe that, indeed, in coordination within the Interministerial Conference with the Communities, action must be taken. It is about repression, prevention and also treatment. A synergy exists with the Department of the Interior, the Communities and your Department of Health. Thank you for your attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u58	The minister can stay until 12:30. A new meeting with oral questions is scheduled for 17 July in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u59	Madam President, Minister, Flemish GPs are complaining about the unreasonable distribution of resources for the GPs. A good example is the post in Leuven, which I know. This item has an annual deficit of around EUR 60 000 to EUR 70 000. The doctors have to pay their own membership fees to keep the mail running. The Eastern Brabant guard station is responsible for 210 000 inhabitants of East Brabant. In addition, a further 50 000 students regularly use the post. It is therefore worrying that this item has a structural underfunding. Part of the problem would be the standardisation of subsidies which would provide for lump sums regardless of the size of a post. For example, the amount of information technology would always be set at EUR 16 000, whereas large posts such as those in Leuven where some 300 doctors are employed would not receive the same budget as smaller regional posts. In a response, you indicated that you were working on a regulatory framework to standardise the functioning and accessibility of general practitioners. That should come sometime next year. Financing will also be reviewed in this context. Madam Minister, what analysis do you make of the problem of the under-financing of some Flemish general practitioners' wards? What policies will you take with regard to undersubsidisation? Will a variable subsidy be considered? What stage is there in the development of the regulatory framework for GPs? What timing do you foresee? What elements will the regulatory framework contain?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u60	Madam President, Mrs Van Hoof, I would also like to give the answer I gave to Mrs Jiroflée's question of 19 June on the plan of action for GPs, which we included in a 2017 vision paper. In fact, we need to create a new regulatory framework for the general practitioners' watch stations. For the guard station in Leuven there is now consultation with the RIZIV and this is followed by one of my cabinet staff. It lists possible solutions for many questions. The situation is indeed linked to the fact that a cohort of students who spend the week there, and sometimes need a doctor, are not registered with a Leuven doctor but with a doctor where their place of residence is. As I said, the possible solutions are being framed. This is being further developed, but it must also fit in with the plan of our vision paper. The agreement resulting from this will be dealt with by Medicomut after the summer and will hopefully be approved. After that, these problems will be in the past in this university city with a special position.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u61	Madam Secretary, thank you for your understanding. Leuven has a healthy environment, but students sometimes do unhealthy business. That is why occasionally, especially at night, they have to go to a general practitioner or guard post. I therefore hope that in the autumn of 2018 a solution can be offered to the doctors who work day and night, including for students, regardless of their origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u62	Madam Minister, through the media and by various interested parties I was informed that the reimbursement of Jakavi, which is used in, among other things, myelofibrosis, would have been reduced. What has changed recently with regard to Jakavi's repayment terms or reimbursement? When exactly did that change happen? What exactly has changed and why? When it comes to a decision based on scientific literature, can you give me the references of the studies on the basis of which the decision was taken? I also read that patients who had submitted the application too early would no longer be eligible and that the amendment would only apply for applications from a given date, which would therefore exclude people if they had submitted their application for a specific date. Why? Who's been communicating about that? I often find that patients are left with a lot of questions when the conditions for reimbursement of certain medicines are adjusted. They often end up with many of us. Who's responsible for that? Can something be set up so that things will be better in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u63	Thank you for your question, Mrs Van Camp. Changes to Jakavi's compensation conditions have been made, but they have been made more flexible, in particular an extension of reimbursement for patients with thrombocytopenia and a relaxation of topping rules, so a reduction in spleen size from 20% after 24 weeks of treatment, compared to splenic size at the start of treatment, is no longer required to be able to continue treatment. Now it is also allowed that in the event of an improvement in symptoms, where the spleen stops growing, but does not shrink, treatment can be continued. In the event of an improvement in symptoms, there should also be a further enlargement of the spleen relative to the size at the start of treatment. If the spleen continues to grow, it is considered to be insufficiently effective. In the past, the spleen had to have shrunk at least 20%. This arrangement has therefore been made more flexible. The clarifications in the remuneration conditions were made in collaboration with the orphan college, a college of experts for rare diseases, in order to make a clearer assessment of the evolution of the patients and thus to better verify the correct use of Jakavi. Those amendments have been in force since 1 March 2018. Please note, even though Jakavi's reimbursement conditions were relaxed from 1 March onwards, that a patient must comply with the conditions of reimbursement which were legally applicable before 1 March for each period of reimbursement starting before 1 March. Those previous conditions provided for congestion rules and follow-up criteria apply after six months of treatment, so that the physician can satisfy himself that the criteria of splenic reduction required by an extension of the refund can be met. We eased the topping rules. As you know, each delivery of a medicinal product is subject to an agreement from the medical adviser and a file must be submitted to the insurance institution in order to obtain the refund on the basis of the conditions applicable at that time. The college advises the insurance institution whether or not to grant the refund. The insurance institution then takes a decision, whether or not on the advice of the Court of Justice. In the event that you mention it and that it has been published in the media, the insurance institution had informed the patient that it did not meet the conditions applicable before 1 March. It appears that there are three days between the submission of his application and 1 March, the date on which the relaxed conditions of reimbursement were introduced. The communication is always done via a publication in the Belgian Official Journal and on the website of the RIZIV. So we do not take control of communication ourselves. The insurance institution was contacted immediately, since the patient could actually be covered by the relaxed reimbursement conditions. In view of the clinical improvement, although he did not have splenic reduction, he was able to receive further reimbursement under the relaxed conditions. Under the old conditions, the refund would be refused. He received that refusal because the administration charged the three days. However, this happened without contacting that patient, nor from the point of view of mutuality. After many phone calls back and forth, including with the family, mutuality has received a positive advice, through the adaptation and relaxation of the conditions. The sickness fund finally informed the patient a few weeks later that the reimbursement was maintained. The treatment was never stopped. It was an extension for a few months. Anyway, all that fuss wasn't necessary. It was as if we had been intertwined, while there has just been a relaxation on the basis of evidention, as always after the advice of the College of Orphans.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u64	Madam Minister, it did seem that way, but that was corrected by this one. It is good to know that the person concerned is covered by the new regime and the relaxed rules and that treatment can be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u65	Madam Minister, I have heard that you are working on a draft of the Royal Decree concerning, among other things, the role of optometrists, on which there would be some uncertainty. Last year the profession of orthoptist was recognized as a paramedical profession. The appeal of optometrist would be recognised as follows. If the design of royal decree becomes applicable, would that mean that orthoptists can measure dioptria and adjust patients' lenses under the supervision of an ophthalmologist? In other words, if you want to buy your lenses, you have to visit the ophthalmologist first, then the orthoptist and then the optician. In the sector there are some concerns about this, which I would like to mention. The industry complains that the role of the optician is actually reduced to that of the trader, even though optometrists and opticians have many years of experience in measuring the eyes. Currently, in 80 % of cases, dioptria is measured using the standard procedure and only in 20 % a specialist is asked for support. Opticians and, to a lesser extent, optometrists are more accessible, while ophthalmologists and orthopedists are already struggling to build strongholds. Thanks to the low threshold of opticians and optometrists in the commercial environment, they also play an important role in the prevention and early detection of eye diseases, for which they refer. Finally, the sector expects that the draft royal decree will create a heavy burden on social security, as the number of visits to the ophthalmologist and orthoptist will increase significantly, thus also increasing the price tag of the reimbursement. Madam Secretary, what is your response to these concerns of the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u66	Mrs Van Camp, at the moment, eye care such as the performance of eye measurements and the adjustment of the strength of glasses or contact lenses should only be provided by doctors. However, doctors can delegate certain actions to the orthoptist, a paramedic. Contrary to what you indicate, the paramedical profession of orthoptist has been recognised since 1997. Last year, however, we amended the regulations governing the profession, so that, among other things, pre-training is no longer required and direct access to training for orthoptists is possible. In the past, candidates had to have a basic diploma from, for example, nurse, ergotherapist, logopedist or physiotherapist before they could become orthoptists. Now one has direct access to that formation, without the preceding. Opticians and optometrists carrying out eye care are currently engaged in unlawful practice of medicine. I believe that the current regulation is too strict and does not meet the needs of the field. For this reason, I have asked for the advice of the Federal Council and the Technical Committee for the Paramedical Occupations, as well as that of the Supreme Council of Doctors Specialists and Generalists, on the opportunity of providing a paramedical appeal in optometry and optics, to strengthen the domain of eye care and thus to make it more low-threshold and quicker. After all, you should try to make an appointment, which takes months. The various opinions showed that the field of eye care is very complex. With regard to the profession of optionker, according to the opinion, it is clear that there is no interest in developing the profession of optician as a paramedical profession. It is about delivering glasses and lenses, and that is not an act that should be reserved for someone with a healthcare profession. This profession therefore remains outside the scope of the health professions. According to the opinions, it is appropriate to create a paramedical appeal from optometrist-orthoptist, so that certain actions can be taken in the first line, such as eye pressure measurement, determination of the degree of myopia and other measurements. This track is currently being examined by the administration of the FPS Public Health and a cabinet employee is also involved. After all, it requires a thorough analysis of what actions a person could take with this profession and what transitional provisions are needed for those who are already doing these actions today, such as some of them. I would also like to amend the Royal Decree of 7 July 2017 on the profession of orthoptist before the end of this legislature. This adaptation should be in line with the real needs in the field of eye care and aims to promote access to qualitative eye care.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u67	Madam Secretary, that was clear, I will put this back.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u68	Madam Secretary, shisha or water pipe smoking is a custom that has blown over from the Arab world. There they talk about shishalounges, which are usually located in open premises. In Belgium these bars are mainly located in back rooms or cellars of cafés. Shishabars are becoming increasingly popular in Belgium. These bars are not only found in the capital and other cities, but also more and more in smaller city center cities. Most people smoke in groups and sit in seats. In itself in seats are not so bad, but there is usually also a TV in those bars and people sometimes spend several hours together there. Think about the soccer match yesterday. Customers are therefore present in such bar for a longer period of time. We heard that the problem was already discussed at provincial level in Antwerp and Limburg, at the meetings of the ARIEC or the Arrondissementeel Informatie- en Expertisecentrum. ARIEC is a new initiative that the Minister of the Interior is trying to tackle organised crime. Several inspection and control services are involved. One sits together to discuss new phenomena associated with crime. Those meetings would have highlighted a number of problems encountered in these shishabars. There is, of course, poor compliance with the rules on the smoking ban and the tobacco directive, the regular sale of water pipe tobacco without a tax seal, aggression and infiltration of crime, unclear business structures. There are unclear issues there, but especially important for this committee and for your policy is that they pose a major risk of CO intoxication. I would like to ask you a few questions about this. After all, CO intoxication can be very harmful. The Antitoxin Centre indicates that exposure to ambient air with a CO content of more than 9 parts pro million can already be harmful for more than eight hours. When exposed to an ambient air with a CO content of more than 400 parts per million, people are life-threatening after three hours. Madam Secretary, my questions to you are the following. Are you aware of the existing problem in shishabars, especially the problem of possible CO intoxication? Does the FPS Public Health, in particular the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service, already carry out checks on the CO content in catering and shishabars today? How does control happen? Is there a legal framework for this? Can such control be carried out or not? Can this be remedied if the control is not possible? I know that the next question is rather a written question, but I will try anyway. Do you know the CO levels measured in the shishabars? Are there any standards for exposure of CO in ambient air in Belgian legislation? Do they already exist or do we have to take a legislative initiative to remedy this deficiency? Have the current smoking legislation already laid down CO standards in certain royal decrees implementing that legislation, specifically for smoke chambers, which constitute the exception to the smoking ban? Have you drawn up an action plan or can we work together on such a plan? Will you take additional measures to establish CO standards and protect citizens or at least inform them about them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u69	Madam President, Mrs Smeyers, you do not often come to the committee, but it is quite a sandwich when you come here. The FPS Public Health has been informed of the problem of the risk of CO intoxication in shishabars or water pipe bars. Since the introduction of the general smoking ban, the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service of the FPS Health also controls the shishabars. The following cases are examined. Is there smoking? Does the smoking chamber meet the existing legal standards on surface but also on air purification and air renewal? Does the labelling of water pipe tobacco comply with the labelling requirements? As no legal standards for CO have been included in the smoking legislation and the FPS also had no knowledge of the potential risks of carbon monoxide intoxication, no controls have been carried out in the past. This has been happening since December 2017, when joint checks with the fire department revealed those problems. The fire department is equipped to measure the CO levels. From then on, cooperation with local firefighters is increasing to also carry out joint checks in shishabars. These joint checks have already been carried out in two shishabars of more than 200 ppm CO. This is a level which poses an acute risk to the health of those present. The staff and customers of the water pipe bars therefore face a real risk of poisoning and serious health problems. At best, this is limited to headaches and nausea, but this is already possible after an hour at such concentrations. Only the legislation on employment protection provides for a maximum standard for CO, 25 ppm. The current smoking legislation only includes standards for air conditioning or air purification of the smoke chamber: 15 cubic meters per hour and per m2. The next steps have already been taken between December and now by the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Service. A shishabrochure has been created for the sector, drawing attention to the dangers of CO intoxication. This is currently sent to all the water pipe bars known to the inspection service. There has also been a communication to the local authorities via the Association for Cities and Municipalities. CO measuring instruments were also purchased by our people from the control service so that when setting high levels the fire department and the mayor can be informed to take measures if necessary. They can then first measure this themselves without having to go to the fire department first. Cooperation on the ground remains necessary. If high values are measured, the fire department must be notified. There are also recommendations. If people were to feel unwell and give a signal, anyone in the water pipe bar would of course be immediately evacuated and the local emergency services and the fire department would be notified. There is an optimal collaboration between the FPS Public Health and the fire department on the ground. Of course, the mayor must know that there was a dangerous case and he may decide to stop it. In general, I do not think it is progress. Water pipe seems harmless, but it's a combustion process and it can cause damage to the airways. It is certainly not healthier than smoking, although the term water makes it seem innocent. I don't think it's a good evolution for water pipe bars to shoot like mushrooms out of the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u70	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. We are indeed faced with this new trend. We must not let that go, and we must do two things now. We must inform the public about the harmfulness of the CO levels in those bars and the harmfulness of water pipes in themselves. Since the inspectors have their own measuring instruments, I hope that you can quickly come out with good figures to support that. Then it is up to the cooperation between you as Minister of Health, the local authorities and the Minister of the Interior. After all, as I asked in my question, there is more to these bars than just bong smoking. People who may know have told me that it is extremely difficult to banish those people because they do not know who needs to be banished. If they already know the bars, because not all of them are known and not all of them are accessible to the public, it is very difficult to find out who is the manager and who needs to be banished. Local authorities should be able to close those bars if they know that there is a nuisance and also damage to public health. I hope that our policy, now that we are faced with this new trend, will quickly put an end to it. When a particular thing is banned, alternatives are always sought. We must not go after the facts. I hope you'll perform.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-07-03-54-commissie-ic939x.u71	We shall conclude the work here.
