ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u1	Minister, a presentation was recently presented to the Brussels Capital Parliament on 'Uniformation de la méthode de calcul des mètres carrés dans le cadre de ventes: Approche de l'Ordre des Architectes'. It is not my custom to write to you in French, but I cannot do otherwise today, since that presentation for the bilingual Parliament was brought exclusively into French. The presentation was given by two members of the Chambre bruxelloise des Architectes, commissioned by l'Ordre des Architectes. This suggests that the presentation was given on behalf of the Order of Architects, which is still nationally structured. Apparently there were no Dutch-speaking architects involved in this presentation. My group believes that the two language roles, both French and Dutch, should be represented in Brussels. Hence the following questions, Minister. Was the Order of Architects, a national order, aware of the presentation? How is it that no Dutch version has been distributed or explained? Do you have guidelines on communication in bilingual institutions that can be communicated to the parties concerned? Can you provide your insights on the content of this presentation, on how it was brought and on how it is consistent with the planned reform of the Order of Architects? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u2	Mrs. De Coninck, congratulations on your French. As you know, my custody is limited to the decisions taken by the National Council of the Order. I exercise this custody through my government commissioner. That is why I can only intervene in order to destroy decisions of the National Council which are contrary to the laws and regulations, which are not part of the National Council's mandate, which could jeopardise the solvency of the Order or go against the budget approved by the Order. The other organs of the Order, such as the provincial councils, are not under my custody. Nor does the Brussels Committee. That's why I can't provide you with any other information. The legal and regulatory framework does not allow me to impose directives on the communication of the Order in bilingual institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u3	Minister, I understand that you may not be able to say much about this incident from your powers. This shows once again, in my view, that it would be better to continue the reform of the Architects' Order so that we can find a solution. We note, however, that the architects have brought this up and mentioned their mandate to the National Order in the presentation, which makes it seem as if they are speaking on behalf of the National Order, while you say that you cannot intervene, as the organisation of the Brussels section went out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u4	I agree with you on the necessary reform of the Order. In this case, you will understand that I cannot overstep my skills. I have to get the agreement of all parties, because they haven't given it yet. I know you're careful about this case, just like I am. However, to tell you frankly, I have the feeling that an agreement remains difficult to reach.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u5	Mr Minister, it is my responsibility that the Walloon producers of apples and pears are facing great difficulties, given the recurrent loss of production caused by Poland's unfair competition. The European Union finances more than half of Polish investments in the fruit sector, and the labour force, mainly Ukrainian, is much cheaper than at home, leading to a decline in exports. In addition, the European Union subsidises fruit growers to remove some of the area devoted to fruit trees from their working areas, but production remains surplus and flows only at low prices on the European market. Despite the Walloon campaigns, notably in 2014, to support producers facing the Russian embargo, the situation remains critical. It is clear that the solution will come mainly from regulation at European level, which will reduce competition. Therefore, Minister, have you ever met with representatives of the sector since you took office? What room for manoeuvre do you have, within your sphere of competence, and under Article 34 of the Cooperation Agreement of 18 June 2003 between the Federal State and the Regions on regionalised powers in the field of agriculture, to bring about a positive change in the situation for the benefit of these fruit growers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u6	Mrs Caprasse, you are asking an important question. The situation of our apple and pear producers is worrying. The Russian embargo introduced since mid-2014, following the retaliatory measures adopted in the aftermath of the annexation of Crimea, continues to have a negative impact on these two sectors. I regret, of course, that our farmers are still the collateral victims of this Russian political decision. In response to your first question, I would like to inform you that I am in constant contact with all sectors, including the fruit and vegetable producers, who do not fail to draw our attention regularly to the issues they face. As you know, the Regions are responsible for the economic aspects of agriculture. However, within my field of competence, I am working to support this sector through the AFSCA export cell. The Commission is actively working on several issues with a view to removing health barriers. There are no fewer than 17 FoodEx files today that deal with apples and pears. The agenda is therefore well filled. The aim is therefore to increase our exports of apples and pears to new markets. This government has developed a strategy to promote our exports at two levels: - at the technical level, with the doubling in 2016 of staff working in the AFSCA export unit in order to speed up the processing of cases; - at the political level, with the regularization of health issues at ministerial meetings with foreign leaders, in order to support these issues politically. Thus, during my stay in Vietnam in February 2018, I obtained the opening of the pear market, following the lifting of the existing health barrier. On 6 June, I also met with South African SME Minister Lindiwe Zulu. I took this opportunity to plead in particular for the opening of the export of Belgian pears because the case is awaiting authorisation since the questionnaire was sent to the health authorities in South Africa in February 2017. I will naturally continue with FoodEx to do everything possible so that we can continue to win a number of markets. This, in my view, is one of the important ways to help our producers who have been deprived of the Russian market. We must try to compensate for this loss by finding other markets. But these are cases that take time, even though, in the course of this legislature, we have managed to open the Brazilian market. The Vietnamese market affects nearly 100 million people. We will continue to do so until the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u7	Minister, thank you for your explanation. It is somewhat surprising that we cannot even find intra-European solutions at the level of transport costs alone. It's probably a good solution to go to distant countries like Vietnam or South Africa. But within the framework of a European policy, it is quite staggering that this should be achieved instead of seeking intra-European solutions and favouring the European market. You're a good Walloon! Walloon apples and pears must be defended in nearby countries! These may be solutions but I think there are other avenues to explore, far less distant than the markets you quote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u8	I can hear you on the European tracks, but I would like to point out that when we have to change the rules at European level on a number of matters, we need the agreement of the 28 countries. So it's never simple. You also know that the European Union is a free movement market. I persist and I sign: these markets are distant but essential for our apple and pear producers. When they are told that they have access to the Vietnamese market, it is more than just a pear for the thirst they are offered; it is really a necessity to see additional markets open to them. I can tell you that the companies that produce apples and pears in our country are calling on us to pursue new markets, including on other continents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u9	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the situation of cattle farmers regularly returns to the public debate and to the press. Recently, at the annual meeting of the Walloon Agricultural Federation, we learned that the price of very good quality beef fell while that of processed meat, on the contrary, increased. This fall in prices logically affects the income of farmers. To raise awareness of their cause, farmers now have the "Just Producer Award" label, the aim of which is to ensure fair remuneration for farmers. On the other hand, the government has already taken many measures in favour of the agricultural world, notably through the reduction of burdens, tax aid, and your recent visit to Asian countries in order to value our meat for export. Minister, how do you explain this fall in beef prices? The "Just Producer Award" is a step towards raising public awareness of the cause of farmers. Do you see other ways to increase the visibility of this cause? The consumption of beef by Belgians is steadily decreasing. Is this trend also observed at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u10	Mrs Galant, this is indeed a very important issue. Belgian consumption fell by 25% in just eight years. The situation on the meat market is particularly difficult and is aggravated by the decline in domestic consumption. These phenomena are also observed in neighbouring countries, which are our main export markets. However, European consumption is decreasing, it must be stressed, in a less pronounced way than in Belgium. The initiative of the "Just Producer Award" label was an important step in the right direction. Consumers must be fully aware that a few additional cents paid to the producer make it possible to sustain the local sector, which guarantees quality production. At my level, humbly, but with determination, I intend to continue to raise awareness of the quality of our internal industry. I am currently working on a number of projects with Horeca. I will soon be able to present this project to you in detail. You have talked about a number of trips, particularly to Asia, and I believe that we must remain mobilized at international level in order to remove health barriers with third countries. For example, as far as China is concerned, the cases of Ireland and France have been able to move forward. I intend to continue to have contacts with the Chinese Embassy to remove these health barriers, as we do with Vietnam. We are also attentive to the negotiations between the European Commission and Mercosur. We have set our limits, with other countries, with regard to the agreements envisaged. I am convinced that South American meat is of good quality, but we must no longer cover our faces: livestock are fed with foods that cannot be suitable for livestock feeding in Europe. Sometimes the European market must absorb goods that do not fully comply with European rules and this scheme favours unfair competition. So you have to be very strict if you want to win markets. We must be able to trade, but we must be fair. As regards the promotion of the beef and veal sector, we will continue to work at European level and bilaterally, with the reduction of health barriers with FoodEx, which will allow us to gain a number of markets for our beef sector, as we have been able to do with pigmeat. If we achieve these goals, it would be a breath of oxygen for the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u11	Minister, thank you for your response and for continuing to raise awareness about the quality of this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u12	Dear Members, Minister, all the questions are important and all the answers are important, but I would like to ask you to keep an eye on the time. The Minister's response took more than five minutes. May I ask you to try answering in two minutes? I'd love to, if I could.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u13	Mr President, Minister, the Agency has recently published its statistics on the number of self-employed workers in our country, according to the municipalities and the Regions since 2016. These figures show us that there is still a fairly obvious regional and communal disparity between self-employed workers. Thus, they are more numerous in Flanders and Brussels than in Wallonia. Similarly, there is a difference between large cities and small towns. In other words, the higher the per capita income – which is concentrated mainly in large cities – the higher the number of self-employed. Minister, have you consulted these statistics? How do you analyze them? Is this disparity solely due to the difference in income levels? With the reforms undertaken by the government in favour of the self-employed, do you expect, in the medium to long term, some harmonisation of the rate of self-employed between our two regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u14	Mr President, I would like to be very strict in terms of time, but I will not have to complain if I do not have time to give all the information. Some of the oral questions asked by parliamentarians sometimes ask so many figures that they should be written questions. I don't want to start pampering. I am at the disposal of Parliament, but I do believe that if I had to respect the speaking time each time, I would not answer half of the questions put to me by Members. Mr President, I hear your point very well and I will try to be briefer. But I may have to cut a part of the answer. Some parliamentarians sometimes ask me seven questions in the same question. However, I have heard you well and I will try to do the best I can. Mrs Galant, the Atlas of the InterMutualist Agency, which you refer to, concerns the beneficiaries of compulsory health insurance. These rates show the number of beneficiaries of health insurance in the self-employed scheme compared to the total number of beneficiaries of compulsory health insurance. This is a very interesting indicator of the level of entrepreneurship in the different provinces and regions. I have at my disposal a number of tables which I will forward to you in this context. The rate of self-employment varies from province to province. These disparities between provinces are quite complex to explain, because they are due to several economic factors such as the presence of industrial or academic poles. Other demographic and social reasons may also play a role. We know nothing is frozen. It is important to ensure that our policies systematically contribute to improving the environment in order to make it conducive to entrepreneurship. The many government measures that you refer to are designed to make the situation of self-employed workers more favourable. Everyone's access to the second pillar of pensions, the creation of a right of access, the reduction of the month of waiting to 14 days in the case of the coverage of incapacity for work – to name but a few provisions – aims to further secure the candidate starter in terms of social protection. The measure which, since 1 April last, allows starters to reduce their social contributions if their first year income is less than €13,550 is also designed to strengthen the attractiveness of self-employed status and to simplify the lives of starters. As I have told you, I have several tables in my possession, which of course I am not going to read to you, but I would like to be at your disposal so that you can identify regional and provincial disparities – which are the subject of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u15	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u16	Mr President, Minister, in response to my question, you confirmed in November that there has been a sharp decline in milk and milk powder exports to France since spring. This is due to the new French rules of origin for agricultural products, which encourage nationalist use of home-grown food products. However, this is only allowed if there is a quality mark, and this could not be demonstrated. Our government has sued French law for violating the free movement of goods. At the same time, an impact study was requested from the European authorities. You indicated that the EU Commissioner for Food Safety was open to an evaluation. However, he wanted to wait for the introduction of all the national regulations of the Member States which had already notified their projects before undertaking an overall assessment. Do you have a view of the evolution of exports to France following these French rules of origin? Is there a similar impact on other countries that have introduced such labels or are considering doing so? Can you give me an update on the Commissioner's file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u17	Mr President, national systems of compulsory labelling of origin for foodstuffs, milk, dairy products and processed meat have for several years been causing a deep gap at the table of the European Council between the 28 Member States. Some Member States, including France, have obtained the tacit agreement of the European Commission to introduce mandatory origin labelling since 1 January 2017. The impact on our exports to France is indeed considerable. Eurostat figures show that exports in volume of meat and dairy decreased by 6,7% and 17,8% respectively in 2017 compared to 2016. My predecessor had placed the item on the agenda of the European Agriculture Council on 17 July 2017. The European Commission was asked to assess the impact of this type of measure on the internal market and on consumer prices. In conclusion, European Food Safety Commissioner Andriukaitis stated that he was open to this evaluation without mentioning a specific deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. If there is no time limit, then of course it is difficult to ask questions about it. The impact of these rules of origin is no less. I hear from you that there is a deep gap between the Member States. Italy and Portugal have also taken such measures. It is important that we align all Member States so that we have a level playing field and the rules of the game are the same for all. This is absolutely not good for the sector. I therefore hope that you will keep knocking on this nail. On occasion, I will ask you again about the evolution and evaluation of this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u19	Minister, at the level of the self-employed, we know that you are committed to strengthening equality between men and women. As a result of the women's entrepreneurship barometer you have created, it has been found that women account for only a large third of the self-employed and report annual incomes below EUR 7,500. Similarly, women are generally less well housed in the granting of credit and have a higher rate of refusal of bank credit than men. In addition, when credits are granted, they are generally lower. To remedy these factual inequities, you have decided to contact the banks so that they can treat them in the same way. Minister, how did your contacts with the banks go? What is the status of these discussions? Can you give us details of the other measures you wish to take that would promote equity between independent women and men?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u20	Mrs Galant, I will first go back to a few key figures to put the answer in perspective. In Belgium, women account for only 34.67 per cent of the self-employed. They carry out their activities in this capacity mainly for 23.14 per cent of all self-employed persons or on an ancillary basis for 9.23 per cent of all self-employed persons. In addition, women earn less from their self-employment than men: 49.5% of self-employed people report annual incomes below EUR 7,500 net. In 2016, women entrepreneurs were mainly present in: - the liberal and intellectual professions sector (40.7%); - the trade sector (31.4%); - the services sector (12.3%). These figures can be slightly nuanced given the fact that there is an increase in the number of self-employed. You have asked a key question that concerns us about the granting of credits. The percentage of loans granted is 88 per cent for women entrepreneurs, compared with 92 per cent for men entrepreneurs. As a result, women had a higher bank credit refusal rate than men. These figures are derived from the evaluation made by the SPF Economy of the SME Financing Act. In the case of women, 12 per cent of bank loans are denied and 8 per cent of men are denied. Another significant difference between men and women was noted. The amounts requested and granted are generally - and this is also important - lower for women than for men. The average amount requested is EUR 204,853 for women and EUR 455,864 for men. Many measures are being taken to improve access to finance for SMEs and I am confident that they will also affect women entrepreneurs. Note the amendment of the SME Financing Act following the above evaluation, the tax shelter for start-ups, the tax shelter for the many growing companies, the new code of conduct signed between Febelfin and the organisations representing the middle classes. All this is very good, but I intend to continue to deepen the measures of consultation with the financial sector in order to detect and objectify the causes of this difference, which remains worrying between men and women. On the other hand, another aspect concerns support, different coaching services of the ASBLs of women entrepreneurs who take under their wing other independents. We wish to continue the work at this level. Thus, measures taken, such as extending maternity leave for women entrepreneurs, are in the right direction. The promotion of women's entrepreneurship, the measures that surround it, help to strengthen the self-employed, the confidence they have in themselves and in their image. These are obviously positive elements, including in the context of the search for funding. In this regard, it should be recalled that in 2007 a call for projects was launched as part of the Plan for the Promotion of Women's Entrepreneurship and that four women winners were selected from the 17 projects submitted. We are now funding independents, women leaders of associations that help other women across a range of professional lines, including in the defence of a financial project with a credit institution. We will continue on this path. I will not fail to come back to you after consultations with the financial sector on these rather striking differences.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u21	Minister, thank you. Several measures had been taken in favour of the independents. That is why it would be a shame to block the appropriations intended to help them start their business. I am pleased to see your awareness of this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u22	Minister, on 11 April last, the Pano programme devoted a report to the question of why Belgian farmers do not get a fair price for the products they grow. The reportage showed that, as long as the farmer cannot put his own price, he will never get a fair price. In other words, there is a huge gap between the price a farmer gets and the price the consumer pays. In the reportage, among other things, they pointed the finger at the auctions. According to the testimonies, European funds would be used illegally by auction houses. Some say that there is also a total lack of transparency and that the resources are wasted on things that do not benefit farmers. A bright spot according to the reportage is the short chain. Through a farm shop, the weekly market and other short-chain initiatives there is direct contact between the farmer and the consumer and the farmer himself can determine his price. Consumers also do not understand why our farmers do not get a fair price for their products. A consumer spends only 58 cents a day on fresh fruit and vegetables. Fifty years ago, we spent twice as much on our food. Eurostat's data also show that fresh fruit and vegetables are on average cheaper with us than in neighbouring countries. The findings in the report raise a number of questions. Minister, what do you think of the issue of fair prices? Will you take initiatives yourself so that farmers can sell their products at a fairer price? Are you aware of any malpractices at the auctions? If so, how big do you think the problem is? If not, will you investigate that further? Can you explain the role of the Chain Consultation to address unfair commercial practices in the sector? Finally, the European Commission has proposed a proposal for a directive dealing with unfair commercial practices. What is your position on the matter? How can this be implemented in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u23	Minister, in the reportage magazine Pano, testimonies from both former auctioneers and farmers themselves were presented on how European subsidies would often be used illegally by auction houses. The subsidies intended to cover the low income of farmers would be used to finance staff. They would also be used for private purposes. There is talk of private travel registered as study trips and of the purchase of expensive motor vehicles. For a given auction house, there is talk of EUR 150 000 to EUR 200 000 on an annual basis. That money must reach farmers, and that does not happen, while four out of ten farmers have an income below the poverty line. However, the auction is set up by agricultural cooperatives so that farmers would receive a fair price for fruit and vegetables. Moreover, in the case of an auction, buyers may go below the production price. The law does not protect farmers from loss of sales. So the auction doesn't do that either. Nor does the law allow for price margins to be discussed within the Ketenconsultation. How many television reports will be needed before action is taken to ensure fair commercial prices for farmers? They continue to work year after year below cost, with all the financial and emotional consequences. Nowhere else is the gap between what the producer gets and what the consumer pays. For no other sector there is so little protection against such a situation. Minister, have malpractices been reported or identified? To what extent is there transparency in the use of European subsidies by auction houses? Will we take steps to make money flows more transparent? What will you do to ensure fair commercial practices for farmers? On what time will you take action?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u24	I share, of course, the legitimate concern of the questioners to give a fair wage to all actors, especially our farmers. The mentioned Panoreportage underlines the importance of balanced prices in all links of the chain, so that each link can be profitable. If one link is vulnerable, it is detrimental to the whole chain. For the sake of completeness, my services have also consulted the Economic Inspectorate of the FPS Economy, which falls within the competence of the Minister of Economy. It was confirmed that no notification or complaint concerning the contents of the Panoreportage has so far been received. I would also point out that the auctions should be considered as organisations within the meaning of the European Regulation 2017/891. In this capacity, they may receive European support under the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund. This aid is granted and managed by the Regions. Like any European aid, the grant is subject to very specific conditions and to very strict control. It is very important that unfair commercial practices are discussed and addressed during the Chain consultation. Even if this is a private initiative, I find this consultation model as a minister very interesting. After all, there is only a need for minimum regulation, in line with the European Commission's proposal for a directive, which was submitted to the Member States last April. Indeed, the European Commission has a minimal proposal for the harmonisation of legislation against unfair commercial practices in the agri-food sector for business-to-business and in particular between sellers and buyers who are not SMEs. The issue was also discussed at the European Agriculture Council on 16 April 2018. The draft directive proposes to prohibit the following practices: payments after 30 days, late cancellations of orders in the case of perishable products, unilateral and retroactive changes to contracts and the imposition of payment conditions on the supplier in the event of loss of products to which he is not guilty. Other practices would also be prohibited unless the contractors have agreed to do so in a clear and unambiguous contract. The text mentions in particular the payment of a supply guarantee and promotion or marketing costs. In consultation with my colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Belgium stated at the European Agriculture Council that it was in favour of the initiative. It is necessary to protect the weakest party in the context of B2B relations. The successive crises in the agricultural sector require not only short-term measures but also structural measures. The proposal for a directive is part of this. During the exchange of views, Member States were almost unanimously in favour of the draft on the table. A final framework will, of course, only be known after the formal adoption of the directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. We all agree that everyone is entitled to a fair price. Farmers enjoy the least protection, which is why that reportage was striking. If the findings are correct, it is appalling that funds intended for farmers would not end up with them. I am pleased that you have said that you have contacted the Economic Inspectorate, where no complaints have yet been received. I would urge extra controls, even if they should be carried out by Minister Peeters, not to let go of this problem. You're saying the Chain Meeting is a private initiative. It is a very valuable initiative, unique in Belgium. We must therefore give it every opportunity, but also ensure that it works. If this is not the case, the government must take measures to combat unfair commercial practices. So we look forward to the directive being drawn up at European level and hope that it will soon be transposed into Belgian law, so that the weakest party is adequately protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We share the same concern, but I think it is high time we finally tackled this problem. We usually pay much less for our fresh products than what the farmer invests in them. He has to invest to deliver the best quality. Something doesn't add up. With regard to the issue of auctions, this contradicts each other. The reportage shows that something is wrong, but no complaint is filed. This means that there is probably a fear of lodging a complaint. Maybe a class action can tell us if people are strong enough to act together. I agree with you that we must protect our producers in every way, that we must achieve balanced prices and that all links must be profitable. There is still a need for action, but that is a matter for another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u27	Mr President, a small response. I really agree with Mrs. Gantois. I add that there is no need to cover your face. I recalled this, together with the Flemish Regional Minister for Agriculture, on the occasion of the Sofia European Council: the real problem is to ensure that farmers have a real income. This is so that there is more recognition, so that farmers can rest their economic activity on a basis of profitability. It's not guaranteed today. This is probably also what led the regional, Walloon and Flemish ministers to say to me in Sofia that they would like to join France's memorandum in relation to the Commission's plan to reduce the CAP budget. Every time we intervene in the European Council, we recall the need for farmers to have a real income. That is the real problem. Mrs Gantois, I repeat that I share what you have said in relation to this programme.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u28	If there is an agricultural budget, it is very important that it reaches the right people. We need to keep a close eye on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u29	Mr Minister, if a self-employed person does not pay his social contributions by the end of the quarter, this will have serious financial repercussions in the form of increases in contributions, which are currently still 3% per quarter and a further 7% at the end of the year, if the various contributions have not been paid in time. For the majority of the self-employed, that is a firm stick behind the door, which is still somewhat considered acceptable at a time of high inflation, a rapidly evolving index and high interest rates in bank accounts, but we are still in a period of low inflation and low interest rates, and this type of increase is nevertheless higher than what is perceived as acceptable by most self-employed people. In your policy paper of 23 October 2017, you already addressed this topic yourself. You said that the question of the rates of increase would be the subject of an in-depth investigation. In the meantime, it has remained a little silent on this issue, hence the question of whether any action has been taken in the meantime and whether we can expect a proposal on this in the near future. Is there any movement in the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u30	Minister, in your policy paper of 23 October 2017, you discussed the social contributions for the self-employed. You rightly said that the 2015 reforms were a turning point to make the contributions due more consistent with the income of the self-employed. However, not all yards in this area have already been completed. For example, in the above policy paper, you yourself indicated that you would have a thorough examination of the rates of increase in the event of late payment of the contributions. This increase will increase to 19% per year at a first delay. Mr Minister, was the study of the rate of increase in late payment of social contributions carried out and completed? If so, what were the main conclusions of the investigation and what measures do you link to it? If not, when can we expect the evaluation of this study?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u31	Mr Lachaert, Mr Janssen, you are questioning me on an important subject, namely the increase due by the self-employed in the event of late payment of their social contributions. As you know, I want to continue the work of recent years, especially in this legislature, in order to make the status of self-employed as attractive as possible. By the way, there have never been so many new companies in our country as in the last two years, namely 89 777 in 2016, which was already a record, and 95 081 in 2017. So we even broke the 2016 record. What is the purpose of the increases? They are primarily intended to encourage the parties concerned to pay their contributions in good time, in this case before the end of each calendar quarter and even more before the end of the calendar year. It is a question of defining and enforcing common rules, which are therefore applicable to everyone. The main justification for the increase is therefore the fair treatment of the self-employed. Although the increases amount to around EUR 69 million per year for the benefit of the system, it is by no means an aim in itself to maximise these increases. It should also be borne in mind that in sensible cases there is the possibility of absolving the increases. In addition, several measures were decided to allow payment delays and thus to help the self-employed who are faced with specific, difficult conditions such as the Russian embargo, attacks, the fipronil crisis, the riots in Brussels and recently the Vevibas scandal, which hit the meat sector. Those measures have ensured each time that the increases were not due in the event of deferred payment. Finally, I would like to remind you of the reforms that have been carried out to ensure a better capacity of the system, in order to adapt to the real situation of the self-employed. As part of the reform of the calculation of contributions, the regulation of increases due thus strikes a balance with the new possibilities to revise contributions downwards. A self-employed person who pays reduced provisional contributions may also, at any time during the contribution year, adjust his contribution voluntarily and thus avoid increases due to late payment. Moreover, the social insurance funds were reminded of their obligation to provide information in this area by means of a general note dated 3 March 2014. Since 2015, the funds have been informing their members about this. Very recently, in particular since the first quarter of 2018, four new thresholds were introduced by law of 18 February 2018 for a possible reduction of the provisional contributions. That introduction will allow further refinement in the determination of the provisional contributions due. Consequently, the risk of any increases due is reduced. As you point out through your questions, I would like to continue to think about the level of these increases. In accordance with my general policy paper, the evaluation is currently being carried out by the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed. It includes, in particular, a section on the efficiency of the system of increases in the accountability of the self-employed in paying adequate provisional contributions. The ABC also considers whether or not to change the existing rates of increase. The results of this evaluation are expected during the second semester of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u32	Mr Minister, you have first listed what this government has done for the self-employed. That's right. Contributions have been reduced in themselves and there are several possibilities to obtain waiver of increases. So it is true that more flexibility is built in. The new advance system also operates differently. The social insurance funds now inform their members of the possibilities of reducing the advance. That's right. However, I look forward to the report that will be produced in the second semester. After all, we are concerned with the loser who sometimes pays a week or two weeks late out of administrative forgetfulness. Although these people do not mean badly, the sanctions are still very high. I understand that the administration may wish to retain those percentages in order to have a stick behind the door. However, for those who are a little late due to oblivion or circumstances, it is a fairly large sanction, although they may request forgiveness on some grounds. Certainly at a time when interest rates are low, the penalty is quite heavy. However, I understand that we can expect a report in the second semester of 2018. I will then question you again to see what the outcome of the opinion was.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u33	Minister, I agree with Mr Lachaert's comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u34	Mr President, Minister, on 12 April the European Commission proposed a directive to strengthen the position of farmers and SMEs vis-à-vis supermarkets. In concrete terms, the Directive bans a number of practices that could affect weak suppliers in the chain. In particular, these include late payments for limited sustainable food products, late cancellations of orders, unilateral or retroactive changes to contracts and the obligation for producers to pay for the destruction or processing of surpluses. The enforcement aspect is important here. The Directive provides for the establishment of an authority per Member State, allowing farmers to lodge complaints. The Authority may also initiate investigations and impose fines where infringements are detected. Because it is a directive and not a regulation, Member States are given a certain degree of freedom in transposing it into national law. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, do your services receive regular complaints from farmers today who try to challenge unfair commercial practices from supermarkets? If so, how is this handled? Secondly, how do you estimate the potential effectiveness of this directive to limit the weak position of food producers and the low profit margins or even losses that may result from it? Thirdly, how will you implement this directive? Is a new authority established or is it incorporated into an existing body? What precise tasks will this authority have? Fourthly, how many more people will be recruited for this authority's best-affication? By what time do you intend to bring this authority into effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u35	Mr President, Minister, this question is wrongly under item 8. My questions were wrong and had to be exchanged. European research has shown that farmers are often paid far too late by supermarkets and subject to unilateral supply contracts. Farmers have little to do with this, as they are large in numbers and therefore exchangeable. There is a considerable difference in negotiating power, a problem for which our group has already tabled a legislative proposal. Now, Commissioner Hogan has also drawn up a directive to reduce unfair commercial practices. He wants to ban a number of commercial practices, including the unilateral modification of contractual agreements. The Directive requires each Member State to designate an enforcement authority to monitor prohibited commercial practices and to allow farmers to lodge a complaint. That authority may initiate and sanction investigations where infringements are detected. In the meantime, we know that you, together with Minister Peeters, are working on a draft law that considers the violation of a code of conduct to be an unfair commercial practice. I have the following questions, Minister. How will you translate the European directive into the national level? How will this be worked out in practice, taking into account the initiatives you are working on? How do you see the enforcement authority and by what time should it be operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u36	Mr President, Minister, in the face of certain unfair practices imposed by large-scale distribution and agri-food giants on agricultural SMEs, the European Commission has tabled a proposal for a directive to prohibit unfair practices that are most harmful to the food chain. Among these practices, and in the face of permanent legal uncertainty, the Commission mentions, among other things, sudden cancellations of orders, unilateral changes in contracts and unsold contracts that have been returned while they are rotten. Thus, the European body provides for the creation of a minimum list of unfair practices to be prohibited and a national authority responsible for investigating and imposing sanctions. Such supervisory authorities capable of imposing new rules already exist in some States but not yet in Belgium. Our country will therefore have to adapt its legislation with some flexibility, given that it is currently a proposal for a directive. Mr Minister, you have, however, already been provided for in your general policy note by insisting on your willingness to improve the competitive position of SMEs in economic law, in particular by providing them with adequate legal protection when they are in a position of weakness or economic dependence. Minister, what is the content of this "minimum list" proposed by the Commission? Are discussions on the adaptation of Belgian legislation in this area under way? In the case of effective transposition, what European models could we draw from? Have you ever been able to make progress on this important issue on improving the competitive position of SMEs in economic law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u37	Strengthening the negotiating position of farmers is one of their priorities. That is why I support the European Commission's proposal for a directive on the introduction of a legal framework against unfair commercial practices. The General Directorate of Economic Inspection of the FPS Economy, which falls within the competence of the Minister of Economy, reminds me that so far no mention has been received from farmers of the supermarkets. The food producers' sector and the problems of profit margins are subjects that are of great interest to us. I generally pay particular attention to the fight against the abuse of economic predominance and unfair commercial practices in the context of the BtoB. This struggle is obviously at the heart of my approach. Ms. Jadin referred to it with regard to the Code of Economic Law. As I announced in my policy note, I am currently working with my colleague the Minister of Economy on a bill to prohibit unfair clauses in business-to-business contracts, not just between businesses and consumers, as is the case today, as well as misleading and aggressive business practices. Furthermore, the fight against abusive practices by companies that hold trading partners in situations of economic dependence is also a project that we have opened, in accordance with my policy note. The difference with the European approach is that it is sectoral in nature. We'll get back to it. I would also like to refer to the law that you approved on 22 March, which extends the possibility of collective redress to SMEs. For our action at the level of the Code of Economic Law, we want to take the same approach as that which inspired what we did and did within the framework of class action. As far as the proposal for a directive is concerned, let us stress the reality as it is. At this time, it is only a proposal for a directive. It can still evolve and undergo many changes. It is at this stage too early to talk about its transposition into Belgian law. We will see whether or not the concept of national authority is retained. In any case, I will discuss with the Minister of Economy what is the best option for Belgium, and how we can defend this option in the implementation of this directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u39	Thank you, Minister. It is clear that measures are needed. I feel that everyone is waking up and is finally taking the issue of unfair commercial practices seriously. We do know about the Chain consultation, but especially within the sector everyone has long been asking for a legal stick behind the door. What happens in the Ketenconsultation is rather noncommittal and with this one would have a little more power to use. Of course, the Chain consultation is valuable, no one doubts it, but it clashes with its limits. You have just said that there are a lot of short-term measures, but we need structural measures. We've been saying that for a long time. We need to think about making urgent progress on the transposition of the directive once it is final in order to support our agricultural sector. I'm gonna ask you a follow-up question about it soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. You confirm that the government is well aware of the imminent arrival of this directive, which seems to me to be moving in the right direction. Consideration will need to be given to determining the appropriate measures to be taken in the short term. These are profound and structural reforms. My colleague has said it quite rightly, it is good news. We must therefore continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Verherstraeten's 25256 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u42	Mr President, Minister, almost a year ago, the discussion of the strict conditions and clauses imposed on hotels and accommodation by online reservation centres began. The hotel sector had long had comments on these clauses. They would reduce the competitive opportunities of private operators and the ban on offering lower prices through their own website could also harm consumers. Both your predecessor and your colleague, Minister Peeters, committed themselves to legislative intervention and to banning the clauses, in particular the strict parity clauses. At European level, initiatives have already been taken in France to ban this type of clause. A recent report shows that the European Commission has a number of comments on the draft law, which could lead to its amendment. Minister, what specific reservations did the European Commission express in its report? What changes should be made to the draft law in order to respond to these comments? At what time do you expect to be able to complete the draft law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u43	Mr President, Mr Janssen, as a reminder, this draft law confirms the freedom of pricing of tourist accommodation operators and enables them to set a free rental price regardless of the prices applied by operators of platforms for the online reservation with which they have entered into a contract. The Catering Industry, which was consulted in the drafting of the texts, is particularly favourable to this draft. In its opinion, the European Commission raises first questions on the legal basis of the proposed reform. It also questions the impact of the administrative burden that its application could have on current contracts, both for the operators of accommodation and for the platform operators. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not a question of a reasoned opinion from the Commission. For example, Belgium can continue this reform provided that the comments mentioned are taken into account. In any event, the explanatory memorandum was amended in order to ensure that there was no doubt about the fact that the right-hand side of the reform protects the freedom of enterprise. With regard to the impact of the reform on current contracts, we can assure that the reform will not create excessive administrative burdens. It does not lead to any change in the current contracts, nor does it need to produce any results. Any contractual agreement between an operator and a platform operator that would be contrary to this freedom will be considered non-written and null and void by law. The draft law, co-signed by my colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs, should be submitted to Parliament shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u44	Mr Minister, my question refers to the demand for up-to-date figures on disabled self-employed workers. As you know, I have asked several questions about this in the past and I have also tabled a resolution on it. In the resolution, I call for much more support from the social status of self-employed workers for disabled self-employed workers. In particular, I would ask that we focus on prevention, so that it does not have to come to that. Should there be a preventive part with attention to self-employed people in possible difficulties, there might be less real incapacity in the long term. Effective profits could also be recorded, if we call them profits, within the social status of the self-employed. If much more is devoted to prevention, I believe that expenditure on incapacity for work can continue to decrease. It is therefore both a socially important part and a positive cost-benefit analysis in the long term for the social status of the self-employed. In order to obtain an up-to-date picture of the figures and the evolution of disability in the social status of the self-employed, I would ask for an update of previously requested figures. First, how many self-employed persons were in the primary incapacity for work in 2017 and are therefore less than one year disabled? If possible, I'd like to get the figures for the past five years. By how many percent has the number increased over the past five years? What is the evolution versus 2016? Secondly, how many self-employed persons were disabled for more than one year in 2017? I would also like, if possible, to have the figures for the last five years. What evolution compared to 2016 do you see? Thirdly, what percentage is the number of disabled self-employed persons compared with the total number of registered self-employed persons in the social status? Fourthly, what is the average duration of a self-employed person's disability? What evolution do you see in that? Finally, how many short-term and long-term disabled self-employed people live below the poverty line? Here too I liked the evolution of the last five years. One of the obvious risks for long-term disabled self-employed workers is that they find themselves in financial difficulties. The link with poverty research is therefore very relevant here. I realise that this is an oral question with a lot of figures. If you can give the figures in writing, you can. You don't have to go through them all for me here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u45	Mrs Smaers, I have a series of tables at your disposal because my answer contains many figures. The data for primary incapacity for work for 2017 are not yet available. The number of primary incapacityes of 14 447 in 2016 reflects the number of cases that ended their primary incapacity for work during the first year. There has been an increasing trend over the past five years, with the exception of 2014, in which there has been a slight decrease. The number of disabled persons of 24 749 in 2017 reflects the number of entitled persons recognised as invalids. Again, an increasing trend has been observed over the past five years with annual rates of increase of more than 4%. It is striking, however, that this trend was weakened to + 1,13 % in 2017. If we drop the number of primary disabled persons and disabled persons in relation to the total number of insured persons, we see that both in primary incapacity for work and in disability, the proportion of disabled self-employed persons in the last five years has risen almost constantly from 2.03 % to 2.30 % for primary incapacity and from 3.42 % to 3.91 % for invalidity. This confirms what I have said to the previous two questions. The duration of benefits, both for periods of primary incapacity for work and for periods of invalidity, did not increase between 2012 and 2015. Those data are in the table I keep at your disposal. In your questions, you are also talking about the risk of poverty. Neither the RIZIV nor the RSVZ nor the FPS Social Security Office have figures on the number of disabled self-employed persons living below the poverty line. However, there is one thing I am sure of. Strengthening the social status of the self-employed, as we have done to a great extent in this legislature, is certainly the best thing we can do in the fight against poverty. For example, there is now a right that has been denied in practice for a long time to the self-employed, in particular the right to become ill. I have ensured that the selfemployed person, who had to wait until one month before he could count on a benefit, will be able to receive a benefit from the 15th day of his illness. That is, as you know, the case since January 2018. With the full government we will continue to support the self-employed, not only when he takes the initiative to become an entrepreneur but also in certain circumstances such as illness.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the figures. I'll be happy to look at that table. I do think, in line with my questions on poverty among the self-employed, that it is a pity that there are so few figures in this area. You replied that neither the RIZIV nor the RSVZ have data on self-employed persons with an income below the poverty threshold. For future policies on self-employed workers and their social status, and especially for self-employed people facing poverty, I believe that it is useful to have adequate figures. I therefore propose that this be included for the future and that we look at how more adequate figures can be obtained. I think that is the beginning of a policy in this area. Measuring is knowing. This too would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u47	Mr Minister, there are already a number of flashing lights that allow us to track down companies in difficulty in time to prevent and intervene worse. For example, there is a flashing light when a company is no longer able to pay its social contributions. The social insurance fund to which the company is affiliated often sees very quickly when things are in danger of going wrong and also has a lot of information at its disposal to act as a flashing light. If social contributions continue to be recovered from the self-employed in difficulty, this will only lead to greater problems. A social insurance fund could therefore play a greater role in communicating the information to the RSVZ and to the chambers for firms in difficulty. After all, by responding more quickly to figures and through rigorous information management, we can pursue a better policy for self-employed people in poverty risk and enterprise difficulties. In the context of the data collection for the purpose of detecting firms in difficulty, Article XX.23 of the Code of Economic Law provides that the National Institute for Social Insurance of the Self-employed shall provide the Registry with a list of debtors who have not already paid the social security contributions due for one quarter at the latest one month after the end of each quarter. The King shall determine how such data shall be transmitted. Is that provision already in effect? If so, how does this flow of data proceed? If not, why not and what can be done about it? Are you in favour of imposing a reporting obligation on social security funds to the RSVZ and/or chambers for companies in difficulty when they find that a company is unable to pay its social contributions for a few quarters? Why is that, or why not? A social insurance fund must inform self-employed persons sufficiently about their rights and obligations. In practice, the self-employed still have too little knowledge of their rights as registered in the social status. Unfortunately, I repeat every month that self-employed people do not always know their rights. Are you aware that this is still a problem? If so, what initiatives can you take to ensure that the social insurance funds inform self-employed people better?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, Article XX.23, Paragraph 2, third paragraph of the Code of Economic Law states that, no later than one month after the end of each quarter, the RSVZ must send a list of debtors who have not already paid the social security contributions due for a quarter to the Registry of the court in which the centre of their principal interests is situated. At present, this provision is not being implemented because consultation with the social insurance funds is required. They have the information requested, such as the name of the self-employed who paid late and the outstanding amounts, and we need to see how that information can be provided. The implementation of this measure implies, as you say, that the social insurance funds provide this information which is useful for the prevention of bankruptcy and for the second chance policy regularly to the RSVZ and then to the chambers for companies in difficulty. I fully understand that, of course, the transfer of such data should only be carried out for that purpose. Social insurance funds are already making considerable efforts to inform the self-employed about their rights, via their website, newsletters and targeted letters to specific customer groups. Sometimes that information isn't enough. Therefore, since 2016, self-employed persons have also been regularly informed about the rights of the social status through the dissemination of an information sheet. That information sheet shall be sent once a year by the Social Insurance Fund to all members, before 31 July each. It is also sent to each newly affiliated self-employed person and is made permanently available to the self-employed on the website of the Social Insurance Fund. There is also a lot of information about the rights of the self-employed on the websites of the FPS Social Security and the RSVZ and on the social security portal. Mrs Smaers, despite these many information tools, I am well aware that some self-employed people do not yet have certain rights. It's called the non-take-up. That is why, and this is important, I call for greater automation of rights. Progress has already been made in this area. For example, the procedure for obtaining maternity assistance for self-employed persons, including five service cheques for newly-caught self-employed women, was semi-automatically made on 1 September 2017. The female self-employed person must no longer apply herself. The Social Insurance Fund will now contact the selfemployed woman after giving birth on her own initiative to ask her if she wishes to benefit from maternity assistance. In addition, self-employed women benefit from an exemption from contributions in the quarter after childbirth. This is automatically awarded.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I note that Article XX.23 of the Economic Law Code still needs to be implemented. I would ask you to do this as soon as possible. It can be a good contribution to the flow of information and prevention policies. I also hear from you that you are keen to improve this non-take-up of rights and to further automatise the granting of rights to self-employed persons. That would be a good thing. I support your commitment to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u50	Mr President, Minister, I have already given the impetus to this question in my previous questions. Statistics to measure the risk of poverty in the self-employed are very important. Measuring is knowing. If we want to pursue an even better policy on poverty, including for the self-employed, then we need these figures. According to the 2016 EU-SILC survey, the number of households with a main occupation below the poverty line is 15.3 %. This figure should be interpreted with caution, since the self-employed often do not know their previous earnings at the time of the survey and the sample in the survey is very limited for this group. I believe that good statistics on an annual basis are necessary. However, the figures for self-employed persons with a living wage who retain their business, for example, are not up-to-date. However, this is a very relevant part of the research into self-employed people in poverty. For example, the PPS Social Integration could only give figures for self-employed people with OCMW support with a delay of four years. This raises some questions, since only the natural person and the company number should be linked in order to be able to extract these data from the system. Since you are the minister of both policy areas, both self-employed and middle-aged and social integration, you are the person to do something about it. Do you have any idea how many self-employed persons with a case have used OCMW aid in the last five years? Can you show the figures per year? Why can't the PPS Social Integration provide up-to-date figures about self-employed people with a living wage who keep their business? Will you take initiatives to ensure that up-to-date figures on poverty among the self-employed also become available? If so, which one? Self-employed workers are also entitled to a living wage. For example, an OMCW cannot simply require the self-employed to stop its business before aid can be granted. Are you aware that some OCMWs lack knowledge and therefore do not support self-employed people in the same way? What initiatives will you take to encourage OMCWs to find their way to self-employed people who need help? Sometimes that really is a problem. In each region in Belgium, one or more organisations are active, such as Dyzo and Boeren at a Crossroads in Flanders, which are specifically committed to self-employed people in difficulty. They also conclude cooperation agreements with OMCWs. These are good tools to allow organisations with expertise to cooperate with the OCMWs and to provide support to self-employed people that can only be difficult to provide from the OCMWs. Do you have an idea of the number of OMCWs in the different regions that are going to deal with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u51	Mrs. Smaers, you like statistics. You should know that I can also provide you with such information in writing. I am extremely sensitive to the situation of the self-employed in general, particularly those in difficulty. The statistical data available to the PPS Social Integration are based on the actual reimbursements by the State to the OMCWs. Therefore, in the fully automatic reimbursement procedure that OCMWs are required to use, only the information relevant for the reimbursement should be disclosed. However, this important information about the self-employed can be obtained by crossing the data of the National Institute for Social Insurance of the Self-employed with the data of the PPS Social Integration, via the Datawarehouse Labour Market and Social Protection at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. The average number of self-employed persons using the OCMW in the last five years for which data are available was 889 in 2011, 840 in 2012, 797 in 2013, 758 in 2014 and 792 in 2015. However, my administration cannot simply request and link data itself. This mission has been assigned to the Datawarehouse at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. It is therefore necessary to use the Datawarehouse at the KSZ to anonymise this personal data such as INSZ for statistical purposes. Moreover, account should also be taken of the fact that some time has passed before stable data are provided by the relevant authorities to the KSZ. The regulation of self-employed professions is indeed very complex. The POD Social Integration has therefore, in collaboration with Efrem, Intermediatiep, Ced-W and Ced-COm and in consultation with OCMW employees themselves, prepared a manual for the OCMW's for helping self-employed people in difficulty in 2014. The manual is specifically addressed to social workers to guide them and help them in their contacts with self-employed people who come to ask for help. It includes the explanation of certain terms, explanations of the social rights of self-employed workers, and the way in which an OCMW can conduct an investigation into the possible social rights of self-employed workers. The manual can be found on the website of the POD Social Integration. Furthermore, no data on local situations are available at federal level. This can be explained by the fact that the statistics of my administration are based on actual reimbursements by the State of the aid granted by OCMWs. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all the measures taken in this legislature to strengthen the social status of the self-employed are intended to help the self-employed in difficulty. I am thinking in particular of the creation of a bridging right. That is not just a safety net, it offers the self-employed a real right to a second chance. On that basis, the selfemployed person may claim benefits for a period of 12 months, without losing his right to sickness and invalidity insurance, thus the time to re-launch. In addition, with regard to social security contributions, the government also adopted policies to make the amount of social security contributions more consistent with the economic reality of the self-employed. The reform of the calculation of social contributions has enabled the self-employed to better match their social contributions with the income of the year itself since 2015. If necessary, they may reduce or increase contributions according to the circumstances. The reform was further strengthened in 2018. From this year on, there will be greater flexibility in the reduction of provisional contributions. Four additional reduction thresholds and a threshold for the starter were added. The latter consists of the reduction of the minimum contribution from EUR 694.46 to EUR 358.62 for the first four quarters of activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the figures you could provide. You are laughing a little, but I am interested in statistics, because on that basis we can have a better policy, because figures indicate where it goes wrong and where the gaps are. In any case, there is still a bit to be done with the intersection of the various databases, so that we can work with the correct and most up-to-date figures from the system. After all, the figures of the POD MI are very much behind. You might want to take that suggestion with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u53	Mr President, Minister, in the context of the new European multi-annual budget, at the beginning of this month the European Commissioner for Agriculture presented his plans for the common agricultural policy after 2020. At the beginning of May it became clear that the Brexit will reduce resources for agriculture and that the Commission will also make more money available for new policy challenges such as security. Belgium would lose around €220 million for the period 2021 to 2027, i.e. 3.9 % of income support and 15.3 % less for rural development. However, the Commission provides for more tailor-made and flexibility for Member States. The Commission will continue to lay down the broad lines, but Member States will be able to decide how they want to achieve the European objectives by drawing up a strategic plan. Mr Minister, I have the following questions following this announcement. Firstly, the proposal is currently being examined by our country. What do you think of the proposal? What position will you take on this matter? Secondly, according to the proposal, less money will be made available for agriculture. What position will our country defend at the next meeting of agricultural ministers in Luxembourg on 18 June? Finally, Member States such as France, Spain, Finland, Ireland, Greece and Portugal do not agree to cut the agricultural budget. How do you see the further development of this discussion as the Minister responsible for Agriculture?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u54	Mr Minister, the European Commission has just presented its legislative proposal on the reform of the CAP (common agricultural policy). The latter must now be discussed in the European Parliament and in the Council, where you represent Belgium. In the context of this dialogue, in addition to the questions relating to the available budget allocations and their distribution among countries, it is important that we can change the texts in the direction of greater respect for the environment, a better fate for family farming, less weight for food multinationals, quality production that feeds consumers properly and allows the agricultural sector to feed itself. It seems useful to me to take stock with you of this important deadline. Minister, what do you think are the strengths and weaknesses of the Commission's reform proposal? What is the timetable for negotiations? Who will represent Belgium in this context? How do you intend to involve the federal Parliament in this discussion? What negotiating commitments can you already address the priorities outlined above?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u55	Mr Gilkinet, this is the first question you ask me and you see me very touched! The communication from the European Commission on the next CAP on 1 June has provoked a lot of reactions, particularly between the ministers at the informal Agriculture Council in Sofia from 3 to 5 June. On 1 June, three proposals for regulations were published: a regulation regulating aid at strategic level; a regulation on the financing, management and follow-up of the CAP; and a regulation amending the legislation in force on the common organisation of the market in agricultural products. At the budgetary level, we were aware that the proposal provided for a reduction of the agricultural budget to 5% at current prices or 12% at constant prices, taking account of inflation. You should know that the Flemish regional minister, Joke Schauvliege, was also present in Sofia. I have also been in contact with the Walloon colleague, Mr René Collin, on the basis of the Commission's presentation. You know that for most of the issues that are addressed under the CAP, the role of the federal minister is limited to representing the agreement reached between the regions. On the occasion of this informal meeting in Sofia, which was a preparatory meeting at the meeting on 18 June in Luxembourg, we were able to see quite frank positions taken by some countries. France indicated that it was preparing, in preparation for 18 June, a memorandum bringing together France, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain on the question of this reduction in the CAP budget, but also on other aspects. You have to say it. I'm saying it. There are a number of things that are very positive, and I will come back to that. But the regional, Flemish and Walloon ministers have expressed to me their willingness to join the group led by France in relation to the European Commission's budget proposal. So I executed myself. On the basis of my consultation with the two ministers, I communicated our position on the memorandum to my French counterpart, who was in charge of piloting it and who will present it on 18 June. With regard to the debates on the CAP, Belgium has been working for years on a number of extremely important issues in our view. This is, of course, the direct aid granted to young farmers. The Commission's proposal demonstrates its attention to these. We are facing a huge generational challenge. You know that the average age of our farmers is around 53 years old. In other words, if their cadets no longer receive European support, a major demographic problem will arise. Mr Gilkinet, we have also seen a number of proposals for a "greener CAP", to use the words of some. We naturally subscribe to it. As regards the more strictly budgetary aspect, our experts - both in the Budget Department and in the Foreign Affairs Department and the Regions - are continuing their work. In the run-up to the meeting on 18 June, as some figures have already been noted, they are trying to isolate precisely the loss Belgium could suffer during CAP 21-27, taking into account the proposals currently on the table. Mrs Dierick, Mr Gilkinet, I obviously remain open to any suggestion or debate with Parliament on this issue, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u56	Minister, thank you. Before giving the floor to Mrs Dierick, I would like to remind Mr Gilkinet that the oral questions are put by parliamentarians to members of the government. In general, it is not the chairman of the committee concerned who is being questioned, but since you have done so, I am responding with a little flexibility. I find this debate very interesting, like some colleagues. If you wish this committee, at any time, to study or examine this issue of the agricultural budget, I would ask you to address your request to the secretariat, perhaps with a clarification of its urgency. On a regular basis, we have an agenda item in which the committee decides on its work. As long as there is consensus in the committee, everything can be possible or envisaged. Having said that, we already have an ongoing schedule for the next few weeks. Formally, I invite you to send a request through the secretariat. Like any other request for reflection on topics that are somewhat out of the law, we can discuss them in the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u57	Mr President, as I said, I am ready to discuss anything you want. I am at the disposal of Parliament. However, I would like to point out that the majority of matters related to agriculture are now regionalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u58	We do not escape that, minister. However, for the agricultural component within federal jurisdiction, agriculture is also referred to. So if Mr Gilkinet wants to speak, it is in this committee that he can do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u59	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer. Indeed, the Commissioner's statements have given rise to a great deal of controversy. In itself, it is good that there is more room to respond to more tailor-made and more flexibility for the Member States. However, we must be careful that the pendulum does not go completely out of control and that there is a risk of renationalisation of agricultural policy and an undermining of the internal market. It is therefore essential to ensure that the level playing field is not distorted and that there is still a good balance between economic and environmental challenges. It is also important that there are good transitional measures and that the necessary time for the reform is taken. As far as the pennies are concerned, it will apparently have to be done with much less money. The figures for Belgium are quite dramatic. I am therefore pleased with your reply that you have had a consultation with your fellow Members and that there is an intention to join those countries that do not agree. I am also pleased that you will be drafting a memorandum. That is a very justified attitude. For the rest, it seems that there will be much more requirements for much less money, which seems dramatic to me. So I hope you'll be alert. I have no doubt that you will do what you need to do. In itself, it is good that more attention is paid to young farmers. We are indeed facing a great challenge. However, we must not forget the present generation and the somewhat older farmers. I thank you and wish you every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u60	Minister, as I said in my introduction, the budget is important. But the budget is not everything, and the question of its distribution, and how it is calculated, is essential. It is clear that financing per hectare is problematic, particularly for the small farms that characterise our country and given the fact that the agri-food sector is taking control of the CAP. Some proposals on the table are interesting but there is also a lot of greenwashing. The role of agriculture in the fight against climate change and the preservation of biodiversity should be reaffirmed more clearly. Small producers and quality approaches should be further strengthened. I understand that Belgium will associate itself with the note drawn up on the initiative of the President of the French Republic. Why not? It all depends, of course, on the final content of this note. Given the importance of the subject, Mr.Minister, Mr. Chair, I am calling for more work on it, on the understanding that I am fully aware that federal agricultural jurisdiction is limited to a few things today. Ideally, this should be done in a dialogue with regional parliaments in the context of mature federalism with processes to be reinvented. Indeed, it is not satisfactory to know that it is Mr.Ducarme who represents us, even if he is accompanied by a mother-in-law and a father-in-law at these meetings, and that we ultimately do not have the ability to influence the line that will be defended. I do not plead for the re-federalisation of agriculture – the subject is topical – but I really plead for a dialogue between the federal parliaments and the federal Parliament, so that we are stronger even if there are different characteristics between Flemish and Walloon agriculture. But if we compare with the other states, which have an agriculture that is even more intensive than ours, there are probably common characteristics that we must be able to defend. As ecologists, we are particularly committed to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u61	Mr Gilkinet, thank you. I confirm to you that, if there is a specific request, we will take this into account and the committee will decide on its work, either within the committee or in other ways depending on what will be decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u62	I'll write to you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u63	Minister, on January 1, 2016, the government introduced the lifetime exemption from employer contributions on the first job created by a company or self-employed person. A measure that, coupled with tax shift and corporate tax reform, is supposed to have a positive effect on job creation, especially in very small structures. A study by the Planning Office found that 30 per cent of new employers did not apply for this reduction in social contributions. In addition, 20% of them do not benefit from any of the measures to reduce social contributions in general. According to the report, the main problem would be a lack of information: many employers would not be aware of their rights and of the measures taken. Experts also argue that reductions in social contributions would be more effective in terms of job creation when targeted at low wages, which is not the case here, given that the zero contribution measure is for all types of wage conditions, provided that it is the first new job in a company. Faced with these arguments, you said that the government would release 50,000 euros to launch a communication campaign on the subject. Minister, beyond the figures published by the Plan Office, which areas benefit most from the measure? Are there sectors that are better informed than others? What will be the communication campaign announced by the government? What will the agenda be? Will you target specific sectors? Do you intend to put in place measures to make administrative procedures less burdensome so that SMEs can benefit more easily from the measure? Finally, would it be possible for the measure to become automatic when a first job is created?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u64	Mr.Vanden Burre, as you indicated, the study published by the Federal Office of the Plan in April 2018 on the use of social contribution reductions for the first commitments during the period from 2007 to the third quarter of 2016. This is about zero contributions. These are therefore not reductions on the second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth commitments. The figures on this subject are not available at this stage. I also asked ONSS to communicate them to me because it would be interesting if we could have them. With regard to the measure exempting basic employer social contributions for the employment of a first worker, the so-called zero-conti measure, which entered into force in January 2016, the study covers only the first three quarters. In my view, this study provides good information, but the latter must be completed in so far as the "zero contribution" has been in force since 1 January 2016. However, information is available only for the first three quarters of 2016. This is not enough for this to be considered a definitive assessment. In addition, the ONSS data on which this study is based must be supplemented by the Federal Planning Office, which will conduct a future study on the basis of business surveys and interviews. In any event, I do not criticise the study that is being discussed, which provides good initial information which must necessarily be completed. To be precise, the sectors that benefited most from the measure were the trade sector (20%), the construction sector (approximately 15%), Horeca (approximately 13%), the liberal professions (approximately 12%). This continues in this way. If you wish, I will ask my collaborator to give you the details of the whole. We'll give it to you. There is an impressive figure: 28,266 jobs have been created thanks to the zero-cost measure since 2016. Of these 4,650 are located in the Brussels-Capital Region, 14,739 in the Flemish Region and 8,877 in the Walloon Region. The North-South balance is fairly clear. You were talking about the communication campaign. It is in the process of being finalized. The idea is to produce a campaign complementary to the first commitment, in order to raise awareness among smaller and self-employed companies so that this measure can be fully used. This campaign will provide further information. In this context, we will work with the stakeholders, who have already acted to make this provision known. We must communicate so that everyone can grasp the content of this extraordinary measure. It means zero contributions for the first commitment. We have to seize this opportunity. This campaign will include three promotional spots, a general information leaflet, posters for potential partners and social media announcements. On the agenda, it's a matter of weeks. The campaign should not be general, but should be targeted specifically at its audience. That is how we will have a chance to activate the measure. Questions were also asked about the lack of automation. I can explain this: there are conditions which must be respected and which prohibit making this measure automatic. They concern SMEs and self-employed persons who have never occupied fixed persons or who have not done so for at least four quarters. They must be considered as a new employer in the strict sense of the ONSS. In addition, the first worker cannot replace a worker who was previously employed in the same operating technical unit. There were problems and questioning when the measure was put in place because of this type of phenomenon. We must therefore verify that the conditions have been fully complied with. That's what I could answer by being the most complete without being too long, Mr. Vanden Burre.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-12-54-commissie-ic917x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will read the detailed figures carefully. I think it is important to be able to carry out a precise monitoring of this proposal. In the course of the debate on this proposal presented to Parliament, we asked some questions about those who could have access to this 'zero contribution' measure, such as the possibility of bias between several companies which would create their first job within a few months, one which could benefit from it, the other not, while in the same sector. We had raised all these issues. We supported the measure which we felt was positive but which required safeguards and assessments. That is why we come back to you with these questions. Before the end of the legislature, it would be good to have a new analysis of the Plan Bureau and to conduct hearings of SME officials, etc., within the framework of this commission. In view of the important consequences of such a measure, I believe that it should be carefully assessed and monitored. This may be positive, but I think it is necessary to analyse precisely, sector by sector, the creation of jobs generated, in relation to a situation where this measure would not have existed. We're really looking for evaluation. This must not be done in the coming weeks. You have to be realistic. Let the Plan Office do its job. But I think that early 2019, it would be interesting to have an exchange on this "zero contribution" measure. It had caused a lot of ink to flow and had sparked a lot of debate at the time. An evaluation would be really interesting next year.
