ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u1	Minister, the OCAD has recently published a report examining in detail the teaching materials used for imam training in the Great Mosque. As a member of the Terrorist attacks follow-up committee, I received that report. As the Minister of Justice, I am sure you have been given that. I cannot quote from that report because it was confidential, but it was based on open source material. You will have noticed with me that the texts that are freely accessible are extremely inciting hatred, violence and discrimination against different groups: unbelievers, Jews, gays and so on. The books serve as the basis of a doctrine in which such hatred is apparently continuously propagated. Our country has an extensive arsenal of regulations that incite discrimination, hatred and violence. It goes without saying that this legislation must be applied in order to put an end to these practices. I have the following questions about this specific OCAD report and the practices described in it regarding the Great Mosque. Firstly, has the prosecution launched a criminal investigation following this report which clearly identifies the existence of a number of crimes? Secondly, it is sometimes said that it is difficult to prosecute such practices because these would be merely press crimes that can only be tried by the Court of Assists. Press crimes motivated by racism or xenophobia can be brought to justice by the courts. How do you feel about this problem? What about the crime "incite discrimination, hatred and/or violence"? The material found is used to teach people. It is therefore difficult to say that this is a purely press crime. Are there any objections that make this type of crime difficult to prosecute? Thirdly, the government has initiated the process to cancel the concession of the Great Mosque. I have included a quote from the report by the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the terrorist attacks of 22 March in the written version of my question. You have a copy of that so I do not have to read this. What steps have you taken to transpose this recommendation? How will it be ensured that all currents within Belgian Islam will be represented? Also the Muslim executive state under the influence of foreign countries, including Morocco and Turkey. Are they the appropriate partner to include an important role in the new implementation of the Great Mosque? How can we ensure that a new generation of young imams who confess an Islam congruent with our values get their place in the new Great Mosque?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u2	Mr De Roover, the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office confirms that, following an analysis of the OCAD note, an investigation was opened into possible infringements of, inter alia, anti-racism and anti-discrimination legislation. If the investigation provides sufficient evidence to this effect, it is correct that press crimes motivated by racism and xenophobia can be sued before the proper court. There is therefore no need for an assistive procedure. In the case of discrimination offences, in practice, there are sometimes difficulties in demonstrating the particular intent on the part of the accused as the crime is situated on the thin line between freedom of expression on the one hand and criminally inciting discrimination on the other. It is the judge who will ultimately decide on this in the event of the parole court going to court. A pilot group was set up within the federal government under the co-chairship of Justice and Home Affairs to follow up the recommendations on the Great Mosque. This pilot group, supported by the technical and security services, has repeatedly considered the development of a new structure, a financing model, a new concession and the conditions attached to this concession. Precisely in order to give the greatest possible number of movements, including a new generation of young imams within Belgian Islam, the Council of Ministers of 16 March this year decided that not only the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium can be housed in the mosque but also the local community of faith and possibly also an institute for the study of Islam and/or an institution that exhibits Islamic culture. Since your other questions concern an ongoing investigation, I must confine myself to what I have told you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u3	Minister, you have given a clear answer to a number of questions. Now they have been waiting for the report of the OCAD while the data that has appeared in it comes from open sources. So perhaps we could have performed earlier. Perhaps the parquets could be more active in that respect. As far as the third part of my question on the Great Mosque is concerned, I should like to point out that very recently in the Netherlands there has been some commotion that the impact of Morocco and Turkey on the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium and on a number of religious communities is, of course, clear and that a follow-up policy is certainly more appropriate there. I repeat the essence: there is, of course, room for Islam, but it must be confessed and can be confessed within the congruence of our norms and values. I think we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u4	Minister, this question deals with a number of very topical issues in my province. In Kortrijk, the Islamic community is in the process of purchasing a recent shopping house to house a mosque in it. The cost of the purchase, purchase costs and renovation works would be EUR 4.8 million. Also in Roeselare the association El Nour wants to move a mosque to another location. She has therefore bought a property of 700 000 euros. Together, the purchase costs and the renovation costs will amount to over EUR 1.2 million. It's unclear where the money comes from. In case files for the application for recognition, the justification is usually that there are activities and collections are carried out. These collections would not only take place in the local community of faith, but also in other mosques in Belgium and even in fellow believers in northern France. Of course, it is also known that some mosques receive money directly from Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Qatar. It is typical, however, that in the case of collections, cash is made available to individuals. The circulation of large sums of cash is, of course, also an easy way to launder black money or criminal money. In an article from 2006 in Humo, it was already stated that drug money was used to finance the Pakistani mosque in Antwerp. A Panoreportage of 13 December 2017 was dedicated to the drug mafia in Antwerp. Reporter Stefaan Meerbergen said in De Afsaan the next day: "We have learned from a very reliable source that mostly in the Netherlands mosques are financed with drug money, but also in Antwerp there are mosques that receive monthly money from the drug world. Some even say that this is why some mosques do not apply for recognition, because they must therefore offer financial openness." I have also been told repeatedly that people from the drug trade are involved in the mosque operation. I'm not going to confirm or deny that. Nor am I going to claim that all Muslims are drug dealers or that all mosque authorities are deliberately using criminal drug money to fund their operation. The fact that collections of hundreds or thousands of believers, many of whom do not have a high income from labour, can, in my view, produce such sums, particularly if they are combined with the rumors that drug money is being laundered. In the Netherlands, both in the Second Chamber and in several municipalities, there is currently a debate on transparency and control of mosques funding. I will also discuss this informally with my colleagues in the Benelux Parliament the day after tomorrow. Minister, to what extent are you aware of the claims that some mosques would be financed through so-called collections or activities using drug money? Is there a specific functioning in the federal police, in the public prosecutor's office, or in the security of the state that succeeds it? Are there specific instructions in connection with the construction or purchase of a new mosque building? Following the Panoreportage of December 2017, were additional measures taken to investigate whether drug money is being used to finance mosques? Is the origin of the funds being examined in the case of large expenditure such as the purchase of a building intended for a new mosque? If so, in what way? Do you think there should be more transparency and control over mosques financing? If so, how do you see this? Is there cooperation with the Netherlands or with other neighbouring countries? Would it be useful for local authorities in the future to take certain administrative measures regarding the establishment and operation of a new mosque? If so, how do you see this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u5	Mr Vermeulen, in recent years, the Financial Information Processing Cell reported several files to the parquets in which real estate was purchased by non-profit organisations with a religious-social purpose. The reason for the notification was always the fact that these purchases were made with cash funds deposited in the accounts of an association. The real estate was usually used as a mosque or as a cultural space. Cash deposits are often the result of the donations made by the believers. The exact origin of sometimes extensive cash deposits on an association's account with a religious-social purpose is not always to be found because of the nature of the operation, whatever the reason for the Financial Information Processing Cell to report the transactions to the Public Prosecutor's Office. In order not to harm the investigations, I cannot, of course, provide any further information. I refer you to the annual reports of the CFI. For the time being, the Financial Information Processing Cell has not dealt with any file that clearly showed that proceeds from drug trafficking were invested in the operation of a mosque or served for the purchase of a real estate by a mosque. In the context of its work, the Security of the State has also sometimes obtained information on the alleged criminal origin of donations to religious communities. These were also delivered to the competent authorities at an appropriate time. As regards recognised local communities of faith, a specific assessment of the origin of the funding is carried out. The joint letter of 20 June 2017, which I drew up together with my colleagues on Security and Home Affairs, Finance, Defence and Asylum and Migration, has established a new procedure for this purpose. Thanks to this new letter, several departments are structurally involved in the creation of the new opinion or the re-evaluation of an existing opinion. Each service has a specific task in which the focus is on terrorism, extremism, radicalism, interference, espionage and organised crime. The funding of the community of faith is also examined. On the basis of that opinion, the recognised authority, being the Region or the German-speaking Community, shall decide on the recognition. As far as non-approved religious communities are concerned, there are already up-to-date possibilities for communicating information to local authorities through the public prosecutor's office or intelligence services, on the basis of which the municipality can take measures provided for in the new municipal law. Finally, on the basis of recommendations 148 and 149 of Parliament's Committee of Inquiry into Terrorism, this morning the Prime Minister and I, together with the Belgian recognised religious communities and philosophical beliefs, signed a declaration on transparency. Its aim is to structure the internal functioning of the various religious communities and philosophical beliefs in the form of legal entities, which will keep their annual accounts fully transparent. In this context, we will also amend the rules on companies and associations to ensure that each of these legal persons keeps a list of all donors above a certain amount. That's work for this summer, but the statement was signed this morning. As a result of this declaration, a charter will be drawn up in the autumn between the FPS Justice and recognised religious communities and philosophical beliefs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u6	In your opinion, Minister, the exact origin of cash is difficult, and that is indeed true. In your opinion, no dossier has been known, knowing well that so many rumours are being spread around this theme, whether or not so. Either these rumors are ever destroyed or confirmed. The fact that the claims are not denied seems dangerous to me. I am very pleased with the last part of your reply in which you explicitly refer to the necessary transparency of these non-profit organisations. It is about their annual accounts, but certainly also about lists of donors. The latter is the most important element. One leaves anonymity and from this transparency a number of things can become clear about the legal nature of the money. We will not draw any conclusions in advance, but we will certainly follow up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u7	Minister, this question is now a few weeks old. We have heard that the Brussels court can no longer prosecute suspects by means of quick justice because the fast court hearings of the French-speaking correctional court would be complete. A recent reply from you shows that the number of trials carried out by the Rapid Law in Brussels has increased significantly in recent years, with more than a doubling between 2015 and 2016. Firstly, what is the cause of this capacity problem? How's it gonna be fixed? Why was there no anticipation of possible problems regarding the organisation of these sessions, given the sharp increase in the past? Secondly, is there also a problem or sufficient capacity at the Dutch-speaking court in Brussels to organise these sessions? Thirdly, what is the state of play regarding the disputed transfer of staff from the Dutch-speaking court to the French-speaking court? How many employees are currently active in the French language in the place of the Dutch-speaking court? Fourthly, the application of the rapid duty apparently decreased by 16% between 2015 and 2016, with an exception here and there. In what way do you want to further promote the right to speed up its application so that it increases back? Sixth, what is the average duration of the expeditious procedure between the facts committed, the referral to the court and the effective treatment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u8	Minister, the police and the court can bring a suspect to justice by means of a rapid judicial procedure. The defendant should then be able to appear before the court within two months. At the time of the European Championships one could be tried within the week, but this was subsequently destroyed by the Constitutional Court for procedural reasons. Despite the fact that the time limit instead of a week is now up to two months, the Brussels parish can no longer prosecute suspects by means of quick justice. All sessions of the French-speaking correctional court in Brussels are full. This means that new cases can be dealt with at the earliest in September, exceeding the two-month deadline. Minister, I have two questions. Firstly, what solution do you see for this problem? Secondly, in January 2018, you reported that you were working on a reform of the Quick Law. Is this draft already ready and at what time should the defendant appear before the court according to this draft?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u9	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, Mrs Lambrecht, your questions deal with the capacity of the Dutch and French courts of first instance in Brussels. The Registry of the Dutch-speaking Court of First Instance has an effective 104.2 full-time equivalents for a 112 framework. This is a framework, with the two current appointments, of 95%. At present, four staff members of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance have been seconded to the French-speaking court of first instance, who are charged at the effective of the French-speaking court and, in view of their mandate, have been neutralized in the situation and in the percentage of the Dutch-speaking court. With regard to the application of the law on speed, I have received the following information from the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. Before the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels, the meetings relating to the expeditious procedure, namely the summoning by minutes, were held until 15 June. So far, the public prosecutor has not been informed of any new dates for such sessions. However, the President of the French-speaking court informed the court that he would integrate the hearings in the framework of rapid legal proceedings into the July and August holiday sessions at a higher frequency than during the judicial year. No hearings have been held for the Dutch court of first instance in Brussels. Your question concerning the average duration in quick legal proceedings between the facts, the referral to the court and the effective treatment concerns a question to be dealt with by the statistical analysts of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Given the short timeframe of your oral question, that information could not be obtained. We will soon see what changes we can make to the rapid law within the government. Among other things, there is a reduction in the time limits for summoning by report. These are now laid down in Article 216c of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the convocation at least ten days to two months and for the judgment at two months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u10	Minister, with regard to the unjustified posting of workers, I have asked several questions on this matter. It is a pity that it has not yet been corrected, because it is also illegal. I hope that we will be able to make up for the delay in the holiday sessions and that we will ensure that the matters that have not yet been decided can be dealt with. I'll follow that up. As far as the right of rapid action is concerned, you know that we also have a legislative proposal on this matter. It's ready to be approved. It has already been sent to the Council of State and returned. The comments have been taken into account. I hope, therefore, that we will be able to work quickly on this and proceed to the vote on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u11	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I'm afraid you won't want to answer my question when is soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u12	Mr Minister, Article 731 deals with the reconciliation efforts that are possible for our courts. It is also about the friendly settlement chambers set up together with the establishment of family courts. In some interpretations it is assumed that these chambers are not competent if a full agreement has been reached between the parties whose ratification is requested. Minister, do you agree with the interpretation that the Chambers for Friendly Settlement are only competent if there is another dispute, so not if there is a full agreement? In which districts is this interpretation followed? If this interpretation is correct, where can the parties go for the approval of their pre-concluded agreements?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u13	In accordance with Article 731 of the Court's Rules of Procedure, a dispute may be referred to the Chamber for an amicable settlement with a view to reconciliation for any case which may be settled. This Chamber is composed of a judge who has undergone specialised training. Reconciliation presupposes an active role of the judge, in that he is led to give an opinion on the points of contention and to propose concrete possible solutions which are well understood by the parties. If the parties have already concluded agreements, it is in principle no longer necessary to reconcile their views with the amicable settlement chamber and the parties cannot directly enter into an amicable settlement chamber. In accordance with Article 1043, first paragraph and Article 1733, first paragraph of the Civil Code, a court cannot be heard by the parties for an application for accreditation if there is no dispute, unless the agreement is the result of conciliation. In view of the foregoing, I share the interpretation of the Court of First Instance of West Flanders regarding the possibility of having agreements approved for the chambers for amicable settlement. The reply from the College of Courts and Courts which I received shows that the practice differs from one arrondissement to another. Some accept it on the basis of Article 731, second paragraph of the Civil Code, while others refuse it on the basis of Article 1043 of the Civil Code. It is not because the court for amicable settlement does not understand that the parties can no longer have their agreement validated by the family court. Several similar provisions, including Article 1253ter/3 §3, Article 1255 §1, third paragraph and Article 1298 of the Civil Code, provide that the family court may at any time, during an ongoing procedure, validate the agreement relating to measures relating to children or maintenance obligations, even if those agreements are already included in the document instituting proceedings. However, even in that case, nothing prevents the parties from being referred to the friendly settlement chambers in order to specify the content of the agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I remember that practice can be different. Some rooms for friendly settlement do accept fully comprehensive agreements, other than those not. I regret that because the friendly settlement chambers have been set up to lead the parties to court quickly and cheaply in order to mediate in disputes or to have an agreement approved. I'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u15	Minister, I have already put a number of questions to your colleague, the Minister for the Interior, on how to deal with the smuggling of migrants. In the middle of May, he replied that in the first three months of this year 2 469 transmigrants were intercepted, of which 40% were in my province, West Flanders. Unfortunately, it is also a lucrative business for smugglers. For this aspect, the Minister for the Interior referred me to you and, at the end of November last year, the Council of Ministers decided to transfer the budget of the specialised reception centres for victims of trafficking from Equality of Opportunities to Justice. In addition, until 2019, the centres of both departments could use EUR 250 000 of additional funding each year. At the beginning of February of this year, you announced your intention to push up the fight against smugglers by trying to hit them mainly financially. Last year, Justice of smugglers seized more than 110 000 euros, compared to 18 000 euros in 2016. It is mainly about sums of money, real estate and cars or trucks. This was done by so-called picking teams of the federal police, which are responsible for the property investigations and seizure of the human smugglers. Good cooperation with the banking sector should also speed up the exposure of smugglers' money flows. Mr Minister, can you give up the number of violations of human trafficking and, possibly, the number of convictions for 2016, 2017, and possibly the first quarter of this year? What is the state of play regarding the transfer of specialised reception centres for victims of trafficking in human beings? Is that where the victims of smuggling of migrants end up? If so, what is the evolution in the figures? What are the current figures when it comes to financialising the smugglers? What additional resources are you considering?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u16	Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, in my reply I give the figures that are directly available to my services, as it is not possible to collect all the information in the case of oral questions within the prescribed time limit. In general, the number of cases of smuggling opened by the public prosecutors has increased in recent years. There were 367 files in 2015, 415 in 2016 and 467 in 2017. The facts are mainly established in Brussels, East Flanders and West Flanders. In practice it is also found that networks move according to the checks carried out. Certain car parks along the motorways in Wallonia are new cruising sites, which are also subject to checks. The number of sepots was 67 % in 2015, 50 % in 2016 and 40 % in 2017. The dismissal is a provisional decision to waive prosecution and may result from the absence of evidence. As regards the convictions, there were 90 finals in 2015 and 127 finals in 2016. Data for 2017 are currently being verified to avoid double counting. Victims of heavier forms of trafficking in human beings are effectively received by specialised reception centres. This requires cooperation in the investigation as well as for victims of trafficking in human beings. According to the Foreign Affairs Office, 14 new victims of heavier forms of smuggling entered the guidance procedure in 2015 compared to 13 in 2016 and 19 in 2017. I can confirm that the federal government has committed itself to financing three shelters. As indicated in the Integrated Security Framework Paper, combating trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings is a priority for us, as is the case with the College of Attorneys General. Of course, the necessary attention will be paid to intercepting the financial proceeds of these crimes. This is addressed extensively in training of the various actors involved in the fight. The global approach to the phenomenon is described in detail in a letter on criminal policy dated 2011, which is currently being updated. Furthermore, under the chairmanship of Justice and in cooperation with Febelfin and the Financial Information Processing Cell, a awareness-raising brochure has been developed to familiarise banking institutions with indicators of suspicious financial transactions relating to trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u17	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u18	Minister, on Tuesday 29 May, investigators from the Brussels court invaded the Federal Agency for Food Safety and the Food Chain. They did so in the context of a judicial investigation following a suspicion that incorrect information was spread over infected eggs in 2017. First of all, in what way and at what time were you informed about the search at the BFSA? Secondly, does it mean that the investigation into the fipronil crisis was not completed? Thirdly, what was the reason for the invading of the Brussels court at the BFSA? Fourthly, what has the new action of the court brought about additional useful information on food safety during the past fipronil crisis? Fifth, are there any indications that the CEO of the BFSA lied at the special committee meetings in Parliament in August 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u19	Mrs Lambrecht, the following information was provided to me by the Brussels Public Prosecutor General. Since your questions concern an ongoing matter, I shall confine myself to that. The safeguarding of the ongoing investigation, the secrecy of the investigation and the principle of the separation of powers do not allow you to give more detailed information at the moment. A search was indeed carried out on 29 May 2018 in the premises of the BFSA by a Brussels investigating judge. The state's attorney's office was present. The subject of the judicial investigation is the possible spread of false information on the fipronil contamination of eggs during the year 2017. The documents seized during the search are now being examined and analysed. The investigation is ongoing. The result must be awaited.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u20	Minister, the Royal Decree of 20 December 1999 provides that lawyers in charge of second-line legal assistance shall be reimbursed according to a point system linked to their performance. It shall also lay down detailed rules for the calculation of the grant to finance the costs incurred in organising the legal assistance offices. So far, the value of the item has been calculated within a closed budget envelope. The government wants to increase the value of the item in the future by allocating new budget appropriations. To this end, a draft Royal Decree is being prepared to amend the Royal Decree of 20 December 1999. That draft aims to enable the value of the issue of a judicial year to be determined on the basis of the resources available during the year following the end of the judicial year in question. The Council of Ministers of 30 March 2018 decided to upgrade the point within the framework of legal assistance to a minimum of 75 euros. In its report, the Court of Auditors has serious doubts as to whether sufficient funds have been made available to finance the upgrading of the value of a point up to EUR 75. Hence, Minister, my questions. Do you agree with the Court of Auditors' conclusions? If not, why not? If so, what will you do to ensure that the lawyers in charge of second-line legal assistance will still receive their promised 75 euros per point?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u21	Mrs Lambrecht, lawyers' fees under the second-line legal assistance were paid to the counters on 6 June for a total amount of EUR 102.29 million. That amount corresponds to a point value of EUR 75, which was thus guaranteed within the available appropriations. In order to respond to the comments of the Treasury Inspectorate, an amendment of the Royal Decree of 20 December 1999 laying down the modalities for the charging and payment of these fees was adopted. The adjustment regularises a long-standing practice of counter legem, where the payments took place in two times by spreading them over two years. From now on, commitments and liquidations will be better aligned. Commitments and liquidations shall be charged simultaneously on the year in which the payments are made. For 2018, commitments already partially implemented in 2017 were last used and the balance was committed on the 2018 commitment appropriations. This explains why less commitment appropriations were needed in 2018. The same commitment and clearance appropriations for the same financial year will be available in future. In the meantime, the additional information requested has also been provided to the Court of Auditors' services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 25788 by Mrs Smaers and 25806 by Mr Van Hecke are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 25824 by Mr Vanden Burre and 25846 by Mrs Van Cauter were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u24	Mr President, Minister, last year you introduced the supposedly extended penitentiary leave, which allows prisoners to alternate a week at home with a prison sentence of up to ten years. After the drama in Liège, you suspended the instruction on the extended penitentiary leave for a week, pending an evaluation. Until the results of the evaluation are known, no further extended penitentiary leave would be granted. However, prisoners who had been granted penitentiary leave before 7 June would remain in this regime. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, has the evaluation of the system of prolonged penitentiary leave been completed? Secondly, what has been the outcome of this evaluation? Thirdly, is the suspension of the instruction extended? Fourthly, is the system of prolonged penitentiary leave being adjusted? If so, in what sense? Fifthly, what happens to the prolonged penitentiary leave granted before 7 June?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, I was a little confused because Mr Maingain had also tabled a question and my answer was drawn up in French. I'll try to translate it. My decision to withdraw the extended penitentiary leave for the time being has impacted a total of 13 inmates. Since the prolonged penitentiary leave is not a condition prior to the granting of an early release, the suspension of these penitentiary leave has no impact on that early release. The evaluation of the measure will be submitted to the Council of Ministers shortly. In the meantime, the measure will remain suspended. Whether or not it will be adjusted will become clear after the evaluation we will make. I'll continue in French, otherwise it's too dangerous. With regard to the number of prison leave granted from 2015 to 2017, I can provide you with the following figures. In 2015, 4,917 leave was granted; in 2016, 4,693 leave was granted and in 2017, 4,696 leave was granted. In 383, 489 and 660 cases, respectively, or 7.8 per cent, 10.4 per cent and 14 per cent, the leave was revoked as a result of non-compliance with the conditions before or after the leave. The detainees were also summoned before the leave, because of our Pot-Pourri II. In one in five cases, if you divide these percentages by five, having committed new offences was the basis for revocation. The recidivism rate therefore floats between 2 and 3 per cent. With regard to extended leave, 854 detainees have so far benefited. In 126 cases, the extended leave was revoked, resulting in a failure rate of 14 per cent, comparable to regular prison leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u26	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I tried to write down the numbers, but it happened really fast. Can I get the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u27	We'll transfer it to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u28	Mr President, Minister, on 16 May I asked a number of questions about the new directive which would allow lawyers to no longer make copies of pending criminal records. You replied, I quote: 'The legal argument that overwriting would allow with the pen and would not allow overwriting with modern technology, I do not think. In my view, this is either a teleological or an evolutionary interpretation of the law, which insists on it. The purpose of the right of access is to allow the person who is granted the right of access to the file to obtain maximum knowledge of the file. By making this material unnecessarily difficult, we do not serve the purpose of the law. At present, there is only a provision of criminal law which regulates the misuse of information obtained through access and copy in a judicial investigation. As you know, access and copy rights are also possible in the investigation. It is probably useful to clarify legislatively that the secret of the investigation is also fully valid in these investigations as regards the alleged abuses. Although I do not think it is necessary, we may be able to use the opportunity to legally anchor copying or accessing with more modern technology and thus restore peace. I will consult with the College on this matter and, if necessary, take legislative initiative." I have just one question, Minister. Have you had any discussions with the College about this? What are the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, my services are working on a draft law that can bring clarity and peace to the ground. Taking into account the position of the College which agrees with the use of contemporary technology, but considers legislative intervention necessary, I assume that the College will support the legislative initiative. My services will consult on this matter with the College's support service on Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u30	Minister, more than seven months ago, the squatting law was finally adopted here in Parliament. We all know there was a lot of fuss in the Ghent arrondissement. There were incidents during the cracking of both inhabited and uninhabited buildings. Together with the whole of this committee, we have tried constructively to put this law together. I would also like to thank your cabinet once again for its constructive role in the drafting and subsequent follow-up of that law, which is also important. I understand that there has been a very good contact with the court in Ghent about the application of that law. That's where the law is strictly applied. I have also seen numbers passing through the media and on police websites. It is indicated that since the entry into force of that law the squatter has been able to stop and that the deadlines laid down in the law are applied very consistently. Recently, however, I was told that citizens who, through the police, are addressing the Brussels court have the answer that the public prosecutor does not apply that law. For this purpose, reference is made to the appeal before the Constitutional Court brought by a French-speaking organisation which opposed that law. That appeal shall not have suspensory effect. Did you know about that? What is the attitude of the Brussels parquet? Can you explain to me more about the attitude of the public prosecutor in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u31	Mr Lachaert, the College of Attorneys General states that the application of that recent law has not so far caused any particular difficulties. The College states that the rumours that the Brussels court would not apply the law are unfounded. Since the entry into force of the law, four cases have already been opened in Brussels at the courthouse, which are personally followed up by the King's Attorney. In three of those files, there are still investigative acts in progress. One file was dropped after the situation was regularized. The College of Attorneys General is currently preparing a uniform directive based on the directive of the Procurator of the King of East Flanders of 14 November 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u32	I am pleased with your answer, Minister. A citizen had pointed out to me that he had received a different answer. I'll take that case back on. I am very pleased that there are already four dossiers in the Brussels arrondissement which can be solved by the squatter. In addition, in the province of Oost-Vlaanderen a real trend break has been achieved by the application of that law. Thank you very much for the information and the reassuring answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u33	Minister, the European preliminary agreement to reduce the cost of telephony between EU countries brings to the attention of the prisons the high telephone charges. In your reply to my question of 9 February this year, you indicated that an adjustment of the rates would only take place after the installation of PrisonCloud in the prisons, which would be expected by 2020. Meanwhile, the difference between the rates applied inside and outside the prison continues to rise. I cannot understand why the current rates cannot be adjusted in the meantime. They date from 2002. Even penitentiary officers offer the prisoners to buy cell phones for them to bypass the high rates. Minister, are you still considering taking initiatives to make prices market-oriented, regardless of the roll-out of PrisonCloud? If yes, within what time limit do you expect the desired result? If not, why not? How is the award procedure for PrisonCloud going? What is the current state of execution in the various prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u34	Mr Van Hecke, I had your previous question examined. With regard to the implementation of PrisonCloud, I believe there is confusion in the reference to that question and my answer. As a digital platform, PrisonCloud does incorporate a telephony module, but the telephony file is independent of that. In the course of 2017, the penitentiary administration launched a public tender with the aim of offering telephone services in prisons at market prices up to the level of the cell. That tender has been completed and the file has been awarded. All we have to do is wait for the deadline within which the candidates who were not awarded the file are given the opportunity to challenge the award. As soon as these deadlines are over and there is no longer any dispute, the entrusted undertaking will be instructed to start installing telephone equipment in prisons. There is a period of 120 days between giving the initial order and the actual start-up of the works, prison per prison. A cabling programme has already been started in preparation, which means that a large part of the prisons have already installed telephone cables up to the cells, allowing the final telephone connections to go smoothly. In others, the new telephone equipment will still be installed in the corridors. With the actual realization of the project, the adjusted rates will come into force as the new installations are completed. The entire project will take three years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u35	Minister, there was clearly a misunderstanding. Based on the reading of your answer, I assumed that this was linked to the introduction of the Prison Cloud and that it was therefore related to the work of cabling, among other things. It is good news that a solution to the problem is not linked to it. I hear the rollout in all prisons can take up to three years. That's gonna be a huge job. In any case, I hope that it will happen as soon as possible and that some fairer rates will finally apply. It cannot be defended that prison rates are so much higher than outside. Those who serve a sentence should not be punished twice by paying excessive telephone charges, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u36	Minister, you have received a letter from a visitor from Merksplas prison, co-written on behalf of other visitors. This open letter was sent not only to you, but also to a number of Members of Parliament and to the media. It describes a number of abuses in Merksplas prison. It's a pretty long letter. The stress and uncertainty that this causes is much worse than the deprivation of liberty, which should be the only punishment. I will not read it completely, but it is about rejecting a VLV request without the person in question being heard, about the long waiting list for psychological help, about poor hygiene conditions in Merksplas, is that in some places still the bucket about how female visitors are sometimes treated during undisturbed visits. Of course, the media found this last aspect most spectacular because the ladies got safety deposit box 69. That is only one of the many comments mentioned in the letter. There are also the ubiquitous drugs, including heroin that are sometimes smuggled in by penitentiary officers. The letter is very detailed and written in a serious way. Honestly, I knew things were going wrong in the prisons once in a while, but when people see this framed like that, they really can't. All this is also a confirmation of what the Council of Europe's anti-fouling committee signals. In its report of 13 July 2017, it indicates that it has never found such a bad situation as in Belgium, anywhere in the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe. Firstly, what is your concrete response to the content of this letter? Secondly, will this be seriously investigated? I hope so. I do not know if all the complaints are well founded, but there are sufficient reasons to investigate this seriously. Thirdly, by when will there be any clarity? Fourthly, what measures will you take if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u37	Minister, I also received that letter. I know Merksplas. I was allowed to be a lawyer at Turnhout's desk for years. I got there a lot then. I'm aware of the state of the prison back then. I must say, I'm shocked by the contents of the letter. Mr Van Hecke has already outlined the situation. We've been hearing things from the press, too. This is a distressing situation: delays in social services, not only uncertainty, Mr Van Hecke, but also delays or important dates in the context of early release, limited assistance in prison, long waiting times for psychosocial assistance, no therapy. We all know it's an old building. It's been a long time. That was an old building back then that's only aged. Phones that fail, making contact with the outside world difficult. Drugs, as Mr Van Hecke said. Sanitation that's not okay. Clothes that aren't okay. A roll of toilet paper a week. I can go on like this for a while. Not only the problem of housing, but also the attitude of some penitentiary officials opening the exchange of letters. There is also the locker 69 if one wishes seclusion. I don't think it's easy to visit his partner in prison anyway. Then there are also the strike days and the rights of the detainees who disappear. I know that you are working on solutions in this area. So there are a lot of comments. We're not falling out of the sky. We know it's serious. We know the reports, but what is in this letter is very extreme. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of these situations? In the meantime, this has been widely discussed in the press, so you know that by now and you probably knew it before that. Much more important is the next question. What are you gonna do about it? What is the DG EPI going to do to address these abuses in Merksplas with some urgency so that living conditions can be improved? This applies not only to this prison but also to other prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u38	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, Mr Van Hecke, I found the anonymous complaint letter in my mailbox last week and had it delivered as a matter of urgency to the administration of the prison system. I take such complaints very seriously and have asked for further investigation. The investigation is ongoing. Generally speaking, the infrastructure of Merksplas is outdated and undersized. I have been able to see that on three occasions. That is why the total renovation of the prison is provided for in Masterplan III and why I have also fought to release the necessary funds for this. The renovation is in full preparation. The study office is busy. As stated earlier, the works will be carried out in stages until 2027, because the prison must in the meantime remain operational. Other complaints about detention conditions and the behaviour of staff are examined centrally and locally by the services concerned. On the basis of an initial analysis, measures have already been taken for some problems. Some complaints were also found to be unfounded. I would like to tell you the following in detail. The toilet on the parking lot was closed because it does not meet the hygiene requirements. Inside the establishment there is sanitary facilities for visitors in the visiting rooms and in the hallway with the lawyers' rooms. It is correct that the condition of the showers in the interior is substandard. This too is part of the renovation. The lack of sanitary infrastructure is practically maintained by local services. In order to ensure that prisoners have sufficient toilet paper, additional toilet paper will be provided at no extra cost to inmates who request it. Indeed, it appears that safety deposit box 69 is assigned to visitors for undisturbed visits. The board wasn't aware of this. It is clear that such a way of doing things cannot be tolerated. There is no lack of clarity in the teachings given. After an electricity span at the beginning of the week there have been problems with the telephone supply. They've been solved by now. There is therefore no question of the regular failure of these facilities. As far as the complaints about the physician are concerned, it is not correct that there is a problem with his license. Three doctors work in the establishment and they are all registered with the order, as required by law. After internal investigations, the complaints appear to be unfounded and their origin is in the fact that the physician is trying to limit the abuse of medication. The prison director will be careful to make the cafeteria list more budget-friendly to allow the prisoners to purchase products from cheaper brands. As far as the drugs problem is concerned, the prison management organises checks in accordance with the current directives on fouilles. Every month, in cooperation with the police, a sweep takes place with drug dogs. As regards correspondence to and from the detainees, the instructions regarding their opening are clear and in accordance with the basic law, the internal rules of the establishment and an internal directive. The correct application of this will also be further monitored. As regards complaints about the handling of files in the context of prolonged penitentiary leave and other leave, I can tell you that there can only be a limited delay in those files for which the psychosocial service should base itself on the judicial bundle containing a psychiatric expertise report and which should be provided by the judicial authorities. With regard to the complaint about the expiry of early release dates, I refer to the law on external legal status and the counter-indications. An early release shall be granted by the criminal execution court. The submission of the necessary opinions by the Director and the Public Prosecutor to the SURB is subject to legal deadlines that must be respected. The same applies to the PSD report. As regards the assistance and services to prisoners, the department of judicial welfare and the Centre for Mental Health is part of the Department of Welfare and Society of the Flemish Community and therefore does not fall within the competence of the FPS Justice. The competent services have been informed of the complaints made and have indicated that they will be further included.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u39	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I knew you'd take such matters seriously. Any minister should do that. I think you did the right thing by asking for an investigation immediately. I take note of the fact that the first elements of the investigation show that a number of complaints are justified and others are not. A number of things are indeed known, such as the problem with the toilets and the showers. You have replied on this point. Solutions are already being sought for problems that the management was not aware of, such as the use of the infamous locker. Such matters are important, but they are mainly about attitude and how people and visitors are treated. A lot of regulations, rules and letters can be drawn up and explained, but in the end it must also be applied in practice. It is important that complaints are heard, not only when they are in the media, but also before that. When people emailed me and I suggested that they send a letter of complaint to the Supervisory Board, which should be the first logical step, they replied to me that if they do so by name, that is delicate, because if anyone has filed the complaint, there may be repercussions, and if they do it anonymously, the complaints will not be accepted. I'm sorry about that. The complaints have also ended up anonymously with you and me, and then they will be followed up. I understand why people report what goes wrong anonymously, but is it not advisable that anonymous complaints should also receive the necessary attention? We will have to wait and see what the final investigation will show. In any case, I hope that this cry for help will improve the living conditions and ensure that the basic law is applied correctly, not only in Merksplas, but also in every prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u40	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am pleased that you have been able to check part of the complaint so quickly and that a number of matters can be resolved. I think this is necessary. You know our position on execution. Punishment is a matter that must be done in a human and correct way is another matter. It is clear that these two must go hand in hand as much as possible. I am very pleased that you take these concerns to heart and that a solution can be found, pending the further development of Master Plan III.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u41	Mr President, the question has been wrongly formulated. This is more precisely the average hourly loss allowed in casinos. Minister, it appears from an article in The Last Time on Monday, June 11 that for players in casinos, the average allowable hourly loss for gambling on slots has increased from 75 to 102 euros. The increase in this amount would be the result of an agreement between the sector and the gambling commission, or rather of a concession from the latter to the representatives of the casinos. The sector's requests are likely to be accepted through this measure. On the other hand, it is much more difficult to understand the societal interest in increasing the level of loss of players, which is the counterpart of the casinos' winnings. With an increase of 27 euros, we are far beyond simple inflation and we can fear that more players will find themselves in difficult financial situations. Mr Minister, what are the exact terms of the agreement reached between the sector and the gambling commission? As the appropriate minister, have you been consulted prior to this agreement? Have you validated this one? If so, what were your motivations? What is the gain expected by casino managers from this ceiling increase? What is the potential counterpart to this recovery? Is there a commitment from casinos to improve their process of fighting pathological gambling? How has the interest of the players been taken into account in this measure? Does this agreement seem acceptable to you in particular with regard to the fight against gambling dependence and the over-indebtedness of players?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u42	Mr Gilkinet, allow me to correct an error in the press article to which you refer. The hourly loss in casinos is not 75 euros but 70 euros, and the factor 1.36 will value it to 95.20 euros. One of the casinos' requests, at the annual meeting with the sector, was to apply the same measure as applied to coffee shops. By analogy and in the interests of fairness, the Commission decided to accept this request, as there were no objections to this change in 2014. The chosen factor is the same as that applied to coffees in 2014. It is lower than the index. The Minister of Justice has two representatives in the Commission, like each of the other five ministers responsible for the matter. Article 20 of the Act of 7 May 1999 provides that the Commission shall monitor the implementation and compliance with this Act and its implementing orders. Article 10 § 6 of the same law provides that the Commission shall carry out its tasks independently. It was felt that this increase in the ceiling was necessary in order to remain correct in the face of the legal market and that the various payments due to the State, the Regions and the municipalities were also increasing. The protection of the player remains guaranteed despite this measure. Indeed, the player's budget has been increased over the years through successive indexes. The factor 1.36 awarded is significantly lower than the current index. The player will lose less than at the beginning of the entry into force of the law of May 7, 1999. This measure does not call into question the other rules contained in the law and its implementing orders. If it is not possible to offer a regulated legal market to players and to some extent viable for the sector, players will turn to illegal unregulated games, without us being able to protect them. I supported the strengthening of the Commission through a staff plan. Its implementation must lead to better protection and more controls. I'm still in Dutch for Mrs Lambrecht. The new protocols, which contain the changes and become active in September, are published on the website of the Gaming Commission and are accessible to everyone. A note containing the technical changes is available on the Committee's website since 1 June 2018. The link to this note is: https://www.gamingcommission.be/opencms/export/sites/default/jhksweb_en/law/protocol/metrol/Update-TE_2017_en.pdf. Indeed, the note states that a factor of 1.36 will be applied to the calculation of the legally recorded maximum average hourly loss for the automatic games in the gaming rooms and casinos. The Royal Decrees of 8 April 2003, concerning the technical rules governing the operation of automatic gambling, the operation of which is permitted in the gaming equipment classes I and II, form the basis of the Protocol. These royal decrees implement Article 8 of the Game Act, which provides for an indexation of the amounts of gambling.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u43	Minister, you know my concern about gambling dependency and the resulting over-indebtedness. That is why I ask you this type of question on a regular basis. I will continue to do so, so as not to say that no one has objected to the increase in the maximum hourly loss or has called it into question, when we still want to increase these amounts in the future. Indeed, that is one of the arguments you have used. I also know the arguments of casinos and other gambling operators. This is the eternal debate on the conduct of the game of chance in the context of licensed games and controlled versus the risk of addiction. The next question will also be to get you to be even more vigilant about this, and to give the gambling committee more power to limit the risk of addiction as much as possible. Playing in a measured way with the possibility of losing money can be a personal choice, but for many citizens it is no longer a choice but a real dependency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u44	Minister, in their June 9 edition, Het Laatste Nieuws and De Morgen reveal that for the past five years, slot machines placed in cafes have no longer been subject to control by the gambling commission. This would result from a dispute between the tax authorities and the Commission. The President of the latter also expressed regret at this situation and pointed out that the use of slot machines poses even higher risks than machines installed in casinos. In fact, beverage establishments are not as controlled as casinos. It also seems that these machines do not provide a limit to the losses of players. The two daily newspapers estimated the gains generated in this specific segment of slot machines placed in beverage outlets at EUR 120 million, which is not insignificant. Given the height of the amounts in question, the lack of control is totally incomprehensible. There is also the question of whether it is not minors who play or people who are forbidden to play to name just a few issues. Minister, do you confirm that slot machines installed in coffee shops have not been controlled for five years? If so, how do you explain this lack of controls? What is the nature of the disagreement between the FPS Finance and the gambling commission? What initiative have you taken, as the supervisory authority, to resolve this disagreement? What data do you have on the turnover of this business segment? How has it evolved over the past five years? Do you confirm the figure of 120 million euros quoted by the press? How do you intend to resolve this flaw quickly? How long? Do you intend to restrict the conditions of access to these devices, in particular by introducing and verifying a minimum age and a ceiling on bets and losses? Will your administration, in this case the Control Board, receive the appropriate means to carry out these checks?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u45	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, the machines described in Article 3, paragraph 3, of the Act of 7 May 1999 are not regarded as games of chance and are therefore not within the competence of the gambling commission. They fall under the responsibility of the FPS Finances, which receives tax revenues through the stickers affixed to these machines. Under the current legal framework, the gambling commission may not impose on the FPS Finance any obligation in respect of the placing in operation of these machines referred to in Article 3(3). Nevertheless, the Commission intervenes when it is aware of the fact that machines of this type are in fact slot games that fall under its jurisdiction. Coffees are regularly checked by the Commission and sanctions are actually imposed. The new legislative measures envisaged will create a more transparent legal framework. The Royal Decree and the Bill will set the minimum age at 18. The number of machines allowed will also be fixed. The base bet will be set at 25 cents and a maximum gain of 6.20 euros per game will be introduced. These texts were transmitted to the Council of State last week. The Commission does not have financial amounts at the moment, as it is not yet competent in this regard. I recently approved a personnel plan that will provide the Commission with additional resources to carry out field checks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u46	Minister, the legislation that is currently in the Council of State will make the Commission competent for these machines, whereas today they are dependent on the FPS Finance. Do I understand you correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u47	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u48	That seems important to me. I will question the Minister of Finance until the law is enforced. If you know a little about the phenomenon of gambling addiction, you can't ignore that what happens in beverage establishments is at the more addictive limit than what happens in casinos. Social control is much less, and human supervision is very different. Revenues for the managers of these beverage establishments are related to these games. The federal state also benefits through taxation, but this is not satisfactory. It is one of the major sources of gambling dependency and debt. I am afraid to obtain confirmation that only episodic controls were taking place on these types of games, and to learn that the Commission was not competent. If the law corrects this situation, we will certainly be able to support the articles that will make the Commission competent. This lack of control, as well as the consequences for the people concerned and their families, is a matter of concern to me and my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u49	Minister, on 17 May 2018, the law on the reduction and redistribution of workload within the judicial order was adopted in plenary. This law contains, inter alia, provisions relating to the Law of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in court cases. In the meantime, these provisions affected the moods in Flanders. Among other things, the spokesperson of the OVB even wrote an opinion piece entitled "Dutch no longer needs to be in the Flemish courts." During the discussion of this law in committee, the N-VA Group raised a number of questions on this subject, but perhaps it would be useful to provide some clarifications. Firstly, what infringements of the law of 15 June 1935 can be automatically annulled by the court? What offences will one of the parties have to invoke? Secondly, is it true that the violation of the law can only lead to sanctions if there is evidence of damage to interests? Is it true that a person in Flemish Brabant can be subpoenaed in French and that nothing can be done about it if the person concerned does not invoke it himself? Thirdly, during the discussion of the draft law, we were assured, following a remark made by Mr Uyttersprot, that the amendments relate only to purely formal violations. The bill did not want to change the law in relation to material violations. Can you confirm this interpretation, as can be seen in the report on page 30? Fourthly, what is the meaning of the new Article 794 of the Code of the Court of Justice of the European Communities? Is this about subpoenaing? In any case, this cannot be the case for us. Or are you talking about small words? In other words, what do you mean by "louter formal misconception"? Fifth, in practice, was there a problem in the case law, which is resolved by these provisions around the law of 15 June 1935? Will you proceed to a repair which will clarify these provisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u50	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the technical nature of your questions calls for an unusually long answer. In your first two questions, for a good understanding, it should be recalled that the first Potpourri Act of 19 October 2015 harmonised the sanctioning of the formal rules in the sense that the formal defects previously sanctioned with so-called absolute nullity are now treated in the same way as the formal defects which result only in relative nullity. The amended Articles 860, 861 and 864 of the Code of Justice show that the nullity of the procedural act or the penalty for non-compliance with a period prescribed by a penalty of nullity cannot be ruled if the defect or irregularity has not affected the interests of the party claiming it, Article 861, and that such nullity is covered if it is not proposed in limine litis for any other plea in accordance with Article 864. This important reform is approved by the Constitutional Court in its judgment in 62/2018 of 31 May 2018, B58 to B68. In the law of 25 May 2018, the so-called work load reduction law, this deformalisation continued, partly on the basis of proposals from a committee of advice. In accordance with the suggestions made by that committee, more specifically, provision was made for, on the one hand, the restoration of formal defects by order of the court, even where there is still damage to interests, to supplement Article 861 of the Code of the Court of First Instance, and, on the other hand, to avoid discrimination, to ensure that the infringement of language rules is treated in the same way as other procedural defects, as a result of an amendment to Article 40 of the Law of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in court proceedings. It follows from all this that the sanctioning of procedural errors in language legislation will henceforth be subject to the principles applicable to the other procedural rules. Those principles are usually referred to as: 'pas de nullité sans texte', Article 860 of the Civil Code, 'pas de nullité sans grief', Article 861, first paragraph of the Civil Code and 'ius est vigientibus', Article 864 of the Civil Code. The law of 25 May 2018 adds to that the possible court order for recovery of any damage to interests, see Article 861, second paragraph of the Civil Code. On the part of your second question about a possible theoretical scenario, I can answer you that it is obvious that the previewed scenario whereby a plaintiff deliberately subpoenas or takes a conclusion in the wrong language and relies on the defendant's accomplice to let this pass, read not to protest and thus oblige the judge to act as if his nose is bleeding and the dispute still to be settled, is based on bad faith and is, moreover, unrealistic. Parties who want to win their trial will not dare to show such disrespect to the court. Moreover, they would probably be guilty of abuse which, pursuant to Article 780a of the Civil Code, could be curbed by a civil fine. Both the judge and the Registrar, even if they are multilingual, have as much interest in being addressed in the correct language of proceedings as the defendant. However, this, although unrealistic, is theoretically conceivable on the basis of a restrictive interpretation of Article 861 (1) of the Code. Although, of course, the adage "pas de nullité sans grief" expressed there has a wider scope, that provision restricts the damage of interest to the interests of the party who raises the objection. A contrario therefore does not apply to the interests of the other parties involved in the proceedings. Next, both the words "who raises the objection" and the abolition of the absolute nullities imposed on the court to intervene of its own motion give the impression that, in the absence of protest from at least one of the parties, the court is powerless and cannot, therefore, remedy the disadvantage of its own interests or, more broadly, can prevent a formal error from endangering the administration of justice. Because I fear that this interpretation will be persevered, it seems to me appropriate to remedy this theoretical scenario and I will take a legislative initiative. I'll be right back. With regard to the third and fourth questions, I can give you the following answers and clarify them. These questions seem to be based on a misunderstanding. The addition of purely formal misconception to Article 794 of the Court's Code, which followed the opinion of the Council of State and the discussion you mentioned in the Committee on Justice, relates solely to Article 794, which refers to improvements to the judgment and thus only to the correction of formal errors committed by the judge. As a result, the same or another judge can now, for example, improve a quote or an address statement in the wrong language, i.e. translate it, but not repeat a judgment given in the wrong language as such, which has been explained by the distinction between formal and material denial of the language law. However, this is also a deliberate violation of the language law by one of the parties, to which the ordinary nullity rule applies. The procedural document is unlawful, in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 40 of the 1935 Law on the use of languages in court proceedings. If that illegality involves damage to interests, that document shall be null and void, in accordance with Article 861, paragraph 1, of the Code of the Court of Justice, although it may be ordered by the court, if possible, to remove the damage to the interests by re-initiating the act in question in the correct language, in accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 862 of the Code of the Court of Justice. The latter possibility is, moreover, traditionally available under the regime of the 1935 Law because, even if declared invalid, the time-limit and the time-limits imposed on it, in accordance with Article 40, second paragraph, of the Steel Law, are interrupted. In other words, those documents can be re-written. To your fifth question whether a problem had to be resolved, I answer that, as set out in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law that led to the law of 25 May 2018 and as Mrs Uyttersprot recognised in the Chambers Committee, it was no longer sustainable after the abolition of the absolute nullities of the Court's Code, to sanction any possible violation of the principles of equality and discrimination with absolute nullity of language legislation, even if the procedural error in question does not involve any damage to interests and in the event of damage to interests without the possibility of repairing that damage. This was the sole intention underlying Article 5 of the Law of 25 May 2018, as stated by a unanimous proposal of an advisory committee of experts. This was not based on the possible bad faith of trial parties who, not in order to win a trial but for other reasons, would deliberately violate language legislation. Your sixth question was whether a repair law could possibly clarify the situation. That goes without saying. If it is feared that the unrealistic scenario described, which, moreover, constitutes an abuse of procedural law, I fear that it will also be necessary to specify Articles 861 and 864 of the Code of Justice in order to ensure that there is no doubt as to the automatic intervention of the court if the administration of justice is compromised. This is, of course, the case when one of the parties deliberately addresses the judge a fortiori in a language other than the procedural language. Mr President, thank you, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your very detailed answer to my question. I'll check the answer carefully. For me, an adjustment is in any case necessary. I can speak in my own name. In my opinion, we should completely undo it. After all, it is very strange that we are saying here that language law can no longer be upheld as it was. In practice, I do not hear any problems about this. It's also a special law here with us. I look forward to the solutions that will be provided by law. We will, of course, keep a close eye on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-13-54-commissie-ic923x.u52	Questions Nos 25752 and 25753 by Mr André Frédéric were postponed. Questions Nos 25863 and 25864 by Mr Philippe Goffin are transformed into written questions.
