ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u1	Minister, this question dates back to February. You announced that you wanted to work on floating solar panels off the Belgian coast. At that time there was an investigation into a suitable location for that pilot project and then large-scale construction of solar islands. You're also working on the Marine Spatial Plan. Last Friday there was good news about this: it was submitted to the government and it had given the green light. We can only be satisfied with that. Firstly, what is the state of the investigation into a suitable location for solar islands? Which zones are eligible? Secondly, how do you see the timetable for the pilot project on the final construction of the solar islands? Thirdly, the communication indicated that DEME would be interested in participating in the pilot project. Can you explain how the pilot project will be implemented? What parties are allowed to participate in this? How will it be financed? How will the parties be selected? Fourthly, how will the further operation proceed? Will concessions or tenders be used? Do you have an estimate of the intended capacity? Fifth, according to information gathered, the efficiency of solar panels at sea would be higher than on rooftops. Can you confirm that? Will there be a cost-benefit analysis of the installation of solar panels at sea?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u2	Secretary of State, it is up to us that you want to install photovoltaic panels in the North Sea very soon, in the form of pilot projects, as part of your new plan for the development of marine spaces. According to the press, you plan to place these signs optimally in waters prohibited from navigation, between wind turbines placed at sea. Several Belgian companies such as Deme, Sioen, Colruyt, Jan de Nul and Tractebel are also at the initiative of the project. If floating solar farms already exist in the world, placing them in marine waters is an innovation and requires a survey to investigate the feasibility of the project. By admitting that this innovative project can succeed before that of our Dutch neighbours, Belgium would therefore be the first country in the world to have such a park at sea. If our country obviously needs such innovative initiatives to promote its know-how and technological advances abroad, this project could also enable us to develop an energy distribution network other than that of wind turbines. We therefore also see it as a good alternative to nuclear energy. So, in order to complete our information, I would like to ask you the following questions. Could you confirm this information published in the press and, therefore, the status of the feasibility study of this project and, if necessary, the timetable for its implementation? What is the outcome of your interviews with the various stakeholders in the project? Have other companies joined the working group on the feasibility of this project in the meantime? Have joint meetings been held between you and your Energy counterpart? What has emerged from these meetings? Finally, at this stage, do you have more precise information on the overall cost of installing such a system and, therefore, on the share to be borne by the public sector on the one hand and the private sector on the other? In advance, thank you for all your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u3	The revision of the Marine Spatial Plan is under way. We approved it last Friday at the Council of Ministers at first reading and now the public consultation will follow. During the preparation of the new plan, we received more than 40 requests from different actors, mainly from the private sector, but also from the public sector, for commercial or industrial projects. We have tried to answer these questions by creating five project areas, where different commercial projects can develop. We are also planning an offshore area, which is already under development, and we have planned an additional area for renewable energy. We specifically give the possibility to create innovative projects. Scientific testing will continue to be possible throughout the North Sea. Various projects can therefore be carried out. For the allocation of renewable energy zones, we are initially switching to a tender system, with which we move away from the old concession system. A new procedure will therefore have to be developed to see how the solar islands can be realised, if they are already there and if the cost-benefit analysis is therefore positive. This will only be possible from 2020 anyway, as the new MRP will come into force and only then will new areas be used. You have both underlined in your question that our Belgian companies are truly at the top of the world in terms of the development of renewable energy and of innovation at sea. I am therefore not surprised that in the contacts I had with various private parties, some of them have indicated that they really see the future in those solar panels at sea. At least they're willing to run a test project. Of course, it is not my job to determine who are the good and the bad and what can and cannot be done. However, we need to establish a clear legal framework for this. That's exactly what we're doing with everything that has to do with Blue Growth in our Marine Spatial Plan. At the same time, it is clear that we need to further develop the procedure before completing the Marine Plan. We must, for example, measure the impact on the environment. It is therefore difficult for me, for the time being, to see how we will develop the capacity of the various solar panels. The return is higher, though. That was clearly given to us. There were also test projects in the Netherlands and in China, although on calmer water, namely on lakes. There the efficiency is much higher due to the reflection of the water. We could therefore assume that the rate of return will also be higher in our North Sea, around 15%. But this requires a new cost-benefit analysis. After all, by using the plant on salt water, there may be more corrosion. The companies are in the process of testing the environmental impact assessment, the cost-benefit analysis, the feasibility and the returns against expectations. It will then be possible to submit dossiers for projects in the new project areas or between the new renewable energy zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u4	I understand that, if there are islands, they will enter the pilot areas, as they are currently being proposed, and the tender system will be chosen. We can only welcome that. I am also looking forward to the various feasibility and return studies that have yet to be carried out. I'm sure it's worth looking into. It's definitely a good slope.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u5	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your clarification. We will of course remain attentive to the evolution of the case, for which you of course receive our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u6	Madam President, Secretary of State, an article published in Le Vif on February 1st of this year deals specifically with the problem that I would like to talk to you about today. It is reported that the European Environment Agency (EEA) has taken a closer look at pollution from maritime transport by explaining that ships are more polluting than cars and that they have an important role to play in premature deaths from pollution within the European Union. The problem of ships is all the more crucial since the number of megalopolises is port, thus directly exposing thousands of people to ship pollution. These people may be prone to cardiovascular problems, asthma, allergy and are generally much more sensitive than others. Mr. Secretary of State, have you been aware of this investigation? What is the flow of ships sailing on the Belgian part of the North Sea? Can the pollution caused by these vessels be quantified? Are studies conducted on a regular basis? What are the European standards in this field? Are they respected? Is ship pollution regulated and controlled in Belgium? I wonder if it can be in Belgium. I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, I am well aware of these concerns not only as a scientist but also as the father of a little girl and a resident of Antwerp. I know very well that port spaces and ships have a responsibility to take in the protection of nature and our environment. We are therefore trying to encourage the conclusion of agreements both at European and international level. Moreover, as you know, the sector is not directly affected by the Paris Agreement. This is why Belgium, together with the large Belgian companies, has pushed the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) to have a real agreement here too. We have set up an international steering group, the High Ambition Coalition, with some islands but also some European partners, to reduce the various elements that have an impact on our environment. Two weeks ago, IMO decided to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2050. This is the first time that we have been able to achieve such an ambition, with a clear and transparent agreement. Belgium played its part in this steering group. The next step will be to reduce emissions to zero. We are encouraged by our shipowners. We insist at the international level on having a stricter framework. There are already European standards. The maritime sector is, by nature, international and regulated mainly by international or European agreements. In Belgium, the SPF Mobility and Transport and the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences have the competence to control the sector. Belgium has already ratified Annex 6 to the Marpol Convention, which deals specifically with air pollution in 2006. It is clear that we are able to control. We have also invested in new tools to enable the FPS to carry out faster and more effective controls. It's important. I'll give you a picture of all the rules and systems. The most important thing to know is that the North Sea is included in the SECA area. This means that stricter rules already exist. For example, in our country, the sulphur emission rate from ships' fuels has been capped at 0.5% rather than 3.5% outside the zone. For NOx, it's more complicated. The controls are more complex (controls at different speeds, etc.) But here too, we are working together with the other European countries. The North Sea is one of the most frequented seas. In 2017, more than 100,000 trips were made. It's not nothing! There is the port of Antwerp, that of Zeebrugge and also of Ghent but also all the travelers who pass to England, Rotterdam or Le Havre. For us, it is important to carry out on-the-spot checks, to be able to apply international rules and to continue to reduce emissions in this sector. Indeed, it plays a crucial role in protecting our environment. These are some of the things that answer your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u8	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, for your very detailed answer. I can only encourage you to continue in this direction, namely to be somewhat at the forefront of environmental protection, including for port areas and in efforts to reduce pollution peaks. It's very important. I also hear that controls are taking place to have a more regular view of the types of vessels entering and leaving our ports. A very small question, Mr. Secretary of State. All these efforts – and we have allies at European level – what could they eventually achieve? As you said yourself and we know, this is an issue of an international nature and is the subject of many international treaties. It is also known that Belgium is not the global player in this field either. What are the real chances of achieving something significant in terms of reducing the pollution of ships? I think that's really an interesting question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u9	With regard to the last question, it is important to say that in the context of the International Maritime Organization, we have reached an agreement as strong as the Paris Agreement. Belgium and our shipowners have really played an important role at the international level. This is the first time a standard has given us the opportunity to push for a decline in the sector; this is the first time we have managed to achieve such a result.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u11	Secretary of State, the project to build three new marine wind farms will be implemented by 2020. With 58 new wind turbines, Belgium's energy capacity will increase considerably in line with the European targets to be achieved by 2020. The press reported that the future wind turbines at Mermaid and Seastar Park, located 60 km and 38 km from the coast, would have a diameter of 167 metres, or blades of more than 80 metres! These two parks would produce green electricity for 485,000 households by 2020. As you confirmed in a previous answer, the future composition of the North Sea wind farm will depend on the Marine Space Management Plan (MEAP). At this stage of the project, you informed me that the revision of this plan was under consideration. Secretary of State, do you confirm the impressive model of future wind turbines? So, do you confirm that it is 485,000 households that will benefit from the green electricity generated by the two new parks? Is this template currently authorized under the MEAP? Are you considering changes to the MEAP to take into account the structure of new wind turbines to be built by 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u12	Dear colleague, thank you for your question. Indeed, the turbines retained for Mermaid and Seastar are very large. This offers us the best energy and economic returns. I think it's a step in the right direction. The volume of electricity produced is in fact of this order of magnitude, but it is almost impossible to determine whether it will benefit households or businesses. The electricity is injected onto the grid. It is difficult to know the position of the electrons. But the order of greatness is the one you have quoted. We also negotiated with the three parks that have now formally committed to commissioning by 2020. There is still the case of force majeure delaying the full commissioning of the MOG. Connection is also important. The legislative framework exists and is clear. Both parks have also already obtained the federal concessions and environmental permits required for the construction and operation of their park. The size and power of the turbines are defined in the Ministerial Order for Federal Concession and Environmental Permits. Here too, we have clarified things. Concessions and permits are already issued, pursuant to the Royal Decree of 20 March 2014. There is no need to modify the plan for the development of marine areas. The renewal we announced on Friday concerns the future park. Here, we are still talking about the last three parks, the first offshore area we have in the North Sea. For this one, they can continue and build their parks before 2020. Everything's in order now. I think it would be good if we could build the nine parks before 2020; and then create future opportunities for investors and the offshore sector in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u13	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answers. I particularly note that you are talking about economic efficiency and energy efficiency. It is true that these large wind turbines have significant yields, much higher than the onshore wind. I would also like to add that in the North Sea this does not generate visual pollution as with the onshore wind, which greatly restricts the possibility of installation. If we can continue to develop offshore wind as much as possible, it will certainly bring us many good things for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u14	Mr Secretary of State, the Marine Space Planning Plan (MEAP), governed by the Royal Decree of 20 March 2014, defines the spatial context of the North Sea, including areas for energy, cables and pipelines. In 2013, the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment organized a public consultation as part of a revision of this plan. On the basis of the 140 comments and proposals, a long-term strategic vision had been established, leading to concrete targets for the period 2014-2020. Reactions included fishing, navigation and conservation of the seabed. The purpose of my question derives from the comments on the impact of the development of new activities such as energy atolls or the offshore grid (Modular Offshore Grid). As a result of the 2013 consultation, changes were made to the plan, including the relocation and reduction of the energy storage area on the Wenduinebank and the reduction of the area for offshore capture. On the other hand, the rejection of the extension of the wind zone was not taken into account. Mr Secretary of State, what is the status of the consultations in the context of the review of the MEAP for the period beyond 2020? What will be the practical arrangements? Can you tell us when the new marine planning plan will be available? Finally, the draft revision of this plan currently provides for an additional 180 km2 to establish new energy parks. What about changing the storage area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u15	Mr Secretary of State, on Friday 20 April a new marine spatial plan was approved by the Council of Ministers. I will not repeat its contents. After all, the colleague has already done so. I'll go straight to my questions. Firstly, can this plan be forwarded to the secretariat and then to the members of the committee? After all, I think it would be interesting to have the Plan. Secondly, we hear the comments of nature associations through the media. They announced through an opinion in De Standaard that they regret being involved only when the Spatial Plan was already largely established. Can you give some explanation of the consultation procedure? Who was involved in the development of the plan when? What studies were made and when were they completed? Thirdly, according to the nature associations, the new zone for wind at sea is located in sensitive natural areas, while according to them there is still room in the barely used military zone. Was that military zone considered? I understand there were problems there because she is very close to the other park. If the military zone was not taken into account, what was the reason for that? Fourthly, 221 km2 for wind at sea seems tight. The BOP had requested a low park density for the new zone, 5 to 6 MW/km2 instead of the current 12 to 15 MW/km2. What will be the park density according to this new Plan? Fifth, do you consult with the Minister of Energy and with Elijah for the timing of the development of a Stevin 2? Finally, my question was made before we heard you on the radio. In the meantime, we know that you will be negotiating with the offshore sector on the framework conditions of the tender. I understand you want to evolve into a zero grant. Then the government is likely to have to assume a number of development risks, such as geotechnical seabed surveys, wind and meteometry, environmental impact reports, permits required, etc. The question is how you will work. Surely some will be shifted to the offshore sector itself? In what way will the whole operation be brought to a successful conclusion, as we all hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u16	The formal procedure for revising the marine plan was preceded by an informal consultation. A start-up day was organised on February 8, 2017. Subsequently, a questionnaire was sent to all relevant authorities and stakeholders. So everyone was lucky enough to participate. Some 40 contributions were collected and, on the basis of new bilateral contacts, the preliminary draft of the marine plan was submitted to the Advisory Commission, which delivered an opinion on 14 December 2017. The preliminary draft was approved by the Council of Ministers on 20 April. The next step will be a new public survey planned from July to September. Regions, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, the coastal guard structure and riparian countries will also be consulted. The procedure is provided for in the law and requires consultation, but we have invested a great deal in various bilateral consultations and contacts with all interested parties. If one waits for July, it is that an environmental impact assessment must be carried out according to the different scenarios. It is currently taking place and is expected to be completed by the end of June. Then everything will be made available to the public and to the various actors, including NGOs or Parliament, of course. You will therefore have all the elements to have a global view of this revision. The additional areas are now 221 rather than 180. Those devoted to the offshore were increased. For storage, the possibility of integrating it into project areas is being explored, but this needs to be considered in terms of cost-benefit ratios and environmental impacts. So much for history. You can see that we have already consulted a great deal. Mrs Temmerman, I also read the article of a number of nature associations on Friday morning. Greenpeace wasn't part of that. They were very positive about the marine spatial plan. The article surprised me, for several reasons. We have spent a great deal of time in consultations over the last few months. I can also refer you to an article about a month ago in Natuurpunt on the website and in their magazine. They literally say that they are optimistic and look forward positively to the marine spatial plan. They cite a number of elements in that plan. This strengthens me in my belief that they already had the plan and that they also judged it positively. I believe that this fits in with their communication to point out that they did not bring in everything they had asked for. That's right, but I think this applies to almost all partners. We have really done our utmost to take account of all the elements, aspects and questions we have received - we have received more than 40. With more than 40 questions one actually puts a very large puzzle in a very limited space. One sometimes compares with the Netherlands, but the areas available to the Netherlands are several times larger than what we have. I regret that communication, but I believe that we will also be able to give their concerns a place in the public consultation. We have already taken on board a number of aspects of their concerns. That seems to me to be a good thing. The public consultation is currently under way, and we will see how we can deal with this further. The next stage, after completing the planned impact study on the environment, concerns the public consultation. There is a lot of discussion about the new offshore zones at the moment. We were there effectively with a number of conflicting interests. The offshore sector said a few weeks ago that they wanted to double what they already have, i.e. more than 400 square kilometres. The current zone of the nine concessions is 225 square kilometres. We have put a doubling against that. However, I am not going to fill the North Sea with windmills. We only have a small part and there are also shipping, fishing and other projects. I think we have a good location there, close to France, with a lot of wind. Indeed, we have also placed a number of zones in Natura 2000. That's also perfectly possible. An environmental impact study should be carried out for this purpose. A number of zones are located in that area, while most of the areas are outside. We have also looked at other options. For example, we've consulted with the Navy. In the centre of our North Sea we have a rather large detonation site. They have put this in place so that we have been able to include a number of pieces in the new zones in order to make more space outside the nature reserve. On the other hand, they could not completely abandon that zone because they are exploding there and a sufficiently large safety perimeter is needed. Both the Navy and the sandfields, which are also important for the sandbanks, we have consulted and tried to use them as much as possible. This has been achieved in some areas, but in others this is not the case, for example because there is still plenty of sand mining or because there is a need for a safety perimeter for certain activities. It is important to note that we have consulted with all stakeholders active in the North Sea today. The same applies to shipping: a number of shipping routes are internationally defined and are particularly difficult to change. They are of course also important for our economic life, so we have had to take that into account. As far as offshore energy is concerned, we are now in the process of reworking the tender procedure. As you know from the past, we have had to conduct difficult negotiations to bring the price down. In the future, there will be a framework, worked out together with Minister Marghem, in which a tender procedure will ensure that those who offer the lowest price achieve it, although the value for money of course remains important. That is why we are now consulting with Germany and the Netherlands to see how they have done so. You are right that the public authorities take a number of risks in the tenders, which can lead to lower prices. Contacts with the Netherlands and Germany have been going on for a few weeks. In this way we think we can come up with a system for the tender to take place, but of course we have to look at what costs we, as a government, take on us and what impact it has on the price. In the conclusion of the Energy Pact of a few weeks ago, a clear timing was agreed for this. A memorandum of principle on this subject will have to be examined before the summer, and the concrete design will be examined in the following months. As I have also said publicly, the agreement within the government on this is to get the entire legal framework of the tender completed in the current legislature, so that there is legal certainty about the procedure and the necessary time. At the same time, there are conversations with Elijah and other partners to ensure the connection to land when the park will be realized. In this respect, too, there are certain lessons learned about stakeholder management in order to avoid additional delays, which permits are needed and how best to deal with them, what is the cost of the connection, how the connection should be technically achieved. There will be a MOG, a Modular Offshore Grid or a marine outlet, for the current parks. To connect the new park we will be able to use the same systems. In this way the lessons learned can also be used to avoid too much delay. The timing by 2025-2026, the end of the next marine spatial plan, therefore seems realistic to me, and that has also been discussed with some of the parties when all the elements fall into place. For the present legislature, we will certainly present a memorandum of principle on all these elements before the summer and will ensure that they are drawn up. At least that's the ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u17	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. I note that a very broad consultation has been held with regard to this development plan. Similarly, I note that the environmental impact of the different scenarios has been measured through a new public survey. We can therefore say that the revision of the plan has really taken into account all its possible effects. I also note that the area will not be 180 but 221 km2. This extension is worth it. It is certain that we cannot immediately move to 400 km2. Finally, as far as the storage area is concerned, I understand that its environmental impact will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u18	Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Mr Secretary of State. In any case, I am very pleased that you are referring to the Energy Pact. This means that it is still lively and perhaps someday it will be implemented effectively. I understand that there has been a consultation round, but apparently there are still a number of associations that do not feel heard. However, you still want to do so in the future. With regard to the conflict between Natura 2000 site and the marine zone, there might still be a possibility, but the military zone is quite close to the current parks, which means that there are not really many opportunities to shift. The consultation process is important, including for the public. You have not yet answered the question about making the plan available to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u19	We are now working on the impact study on the environment. If we can merge that at the end of June, then everything can be made available. Everything can then be worried at the same time, so that there is full transparency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u20	I also had a question about the park density for the new plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u21	Indeed, you should know that on the current 225 km2 the park density is between 10 and 15, depending on the concession. There is now about 2.2 gigawatts produced, when everything will be operational. For the new zones, which are about the same size, 221 km2, we need only 1.6 or 1.7 gigawatts to meet our commitments, which means that we will produce 20% to 25% less in the same zone as the current zones, which will allow the park density to shift. The development of park density will also partly depend on the tender procedure we are preparing. We need to think very carefully about the parameters and the limitations that we will use in this procedure to determine which park density we allow. We know that a much higher park density ensures that winds are more dependent on each other and therefore less efficiency, higher costs and support, which might then prove necessary. As part of the process of drawing up the tender procedure, we are in the process of discussing how we can, hopefully, come to a zero prayer, so as to ensure that the best parties in terms of price-quality ratio can produce these parks. For example, if you want to get to a park density of five, as the BOP points out, you need 440 to 450 km2. You can see for yourself on the maps what impact that has. I then again come into conflict with the Navy, sand extraction, nature reserves and maritime routes. In all the jigsaw puzzle taking place in our North Sea, I think we have made the best possible efforts to define once again a good, sturdy offshore windmill zone that can also be placed on the market, because several interested parties are interested in its development. We will have to think very carefully about the parameters in the tender. The fact that there will be a lower park density is already established, because from 2.2 to 1.7 is already a significant decrease.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u22	We will see with the committee secretariat whether we are taking a moment late June or early July to take stock of the situation on the basis of the different scenarios.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u23	Madam President, I think we need something more than just a little Question Time. There should be some sort of exchange of views with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u24	We will have to have the documents before we exchange them. We'll contact you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u25	Madam Chair, Secretary of State, I come back to you with one final question about the construction of the three new parks, Northwester 2, Seastar and Mermaid. The total energy capacity of this project would be 770 MW, the guaranteed price of which for 16 years is set at 79 €/MWh produced. The federal government has agreed to €2.2 billion in support and these three wind farms are planning to close by the end of the year. The file is progressing, however, the legal framework is not yet established. The adoption of a royal decree is necessary to implement this mechanism. It would be at the drafting stage. This takes time to obtain the final text, which will also have to be approved by the European Commission. All this may take some time, but the deadline for the offshore wind farm is 2020. So, Mr Secretary of State, here are my questions: can you tell us what is the status of the adoption of the royal decree text and the date on which you intend to submit it to the European Commission, the Inspectorate of Finance and the Council of State? What would be the road map planned to keep pace and ensure that this project will be implemented effectively in 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u26	It is the competent Minister Marghem who must present the various royal decrees to the Council of Ministers. This is normally planned for the end of April or even early May. The draft Royal Decree in question will amend the Royal Decree of 16 July 2002 on the establishment of mechanisms for the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources. We have also had discussions with the three parks at the technical level to determine the procedure and we have already obtained the advice of CREG. We can now move forward. We will present this draft royal decree to the European Commission and, at the same time, to the Concertation Committee in order to have the input of the different regions. I hope to obtain a positive opinion from the European Commission in a few weeks' time. The three parks have always indicated that they can build their park by the end of 2020 and so we keep this timing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic873x.u27	I therefore note that the royal decree will be presented incessantly. It will be necessary to go through the other opinions and then it will make it possible to move the project forward very quickly. Thank you, Secretary of State.
