ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Frédéric François, a former member of the House of Representatives, died on 27 November in Namur. He was 85 years old. Frédéric François was born in Jette on October 22, 1932. As soon as his humanities were over, he carried the daily life of the French-speaking Christian Democrats, La Cité, on the baptismal fonts. In 1960, he joined the former RTB where, as a radio journalist, he covered major events abroad, such as the construction of the Berlin Wall in 1961, the Algerian war of independence in 1962 and, above all, the unrest in the Congo in 1964. In that year, Frédéric François entered the RTB television news, for which he initially produced reports on the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi. In 1966, he created a separate department for domestic politics at RTB and shortly thereafter he launched the political debate shows Make the Point and Face the Press. His love for politics was so great that he decided to participate actively in it himself. From 1974 to 1977 he was a provincial senator for the PSC, and after that he was a Member of Parliament for four years. After a second mandate as a provincial senator, from 1981 to 1985, Frédéric François returned to his old love, journalism, and went to the news service of public service. Until his retirement in 1997, his main focus was on Central Africa, especially the Zaire of President Mobutu, whom he was able to interview several times. Frédéric François mastered his profession and had a great love for his profession. This earned him a great esteem from his fellow journalists, politicians and the general public. On behalf of the House, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his wife and family.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u3	Mr President, Frédéric François has been a political journalist, social-Christian senator, restorer, writer and international reporter. His professional career has been very long and has highlighted the many facets of a man who has marked both the political world and the journalistic world, which he has frequented for so long. After being an incisive journalist, who called the ministers out of the Council, and practiced what he himself called "disturbing journalism," he created several programmes of political debates. Very closely followed, they marked the political-media agenda. Frédéric François then turned, a few years later, to politics, committing himself to the PSC. He, who had often covered Community crises, social and industrial difficulties, political upheavals, wanted to take an active part in the debate. He loved politics so much that he wanted to taste it in his turn, which was the case for a dozen years, since he was a senator and then a Member of Parliament. He will be re-elected three times, until 1985. In 1987 Frédéric François decided to return to his first love, journalism. From then on, he is exclusively involved in the making of international reports. For the RTBF he often reports on Africa, especially on Zaire. He interviews several times President Mobutu, which stirs up a lot of dust. On behalf of the government, I join you, Mr. President, in extending our deepest condolences to his wife and family. We wish them much courage in this ordeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to observe a few moments of silence in memory of our late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u5	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, Michel Dighneef, a former member of the House of Representatives, died on 5 December in Herstal. He was 81 years old. Michel Dighneef was born in Tilleur on 20 September 1936. After studying at the École supérieure de commerce et d'administration de Liège, Michel Dighneef entered the service of the Federation of Socialist and Trade Union Mutualities of the Province of Liège. During the second half of the 1950s, he was a professional footballer at the Royal Tilleur FC, the club where he played since his early childhood and which, at the time, was in the first division. In 1960, at the end of his football career, Michel Dighneef returned to the Federation of Socialist Mutualities. After climbing the various levels of the hierarchy, he became secretary general of the Federation in 1985. He was also the head of the cooperative society Les Pharmacies du Peuple. In December 1991 Michel Dighneef became a provincial senator for the PS and in 1995 he was elected MP. As a specialist in social security, he was very active in the Social Affairs Committee. He showed himself to be an tireless supporter of solidarity in the broadest sense of the word. From 1995 to 1997, Michel Dighneef was also chairman of the Liège PS Federation, where he was highly appreciated for his mediation and reconciliation skills. At the end of his parliamentary career in 1999, Michel Dighneef remained closely involved in the political life of Liège for another 15 years. On behalf of the House, I have offered my deepest condolences to her daughter Laurie and her family.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government joins the tribute paid by the House in honour of Mr Michel Dighneef, a former member of the House. Throughout his parliamentary career, in the Senate in 1991 and later in this assembly, he was able to take advantage of his many qualities as a former athlete – rigor, effort, discipline – but also his qualities as an outstanding technician, after a journey that brought him to the top of the Federation of Socialist Mutualities in the province of Liège. Recognized for his social commitment, this fervent defender of social security was also a warm man, a good living, avowed ine tiesse di Saint-Lambert, as they say in Liège. As former chairman of the Liege Federation of the Parti Socialiste, he remained very active in local politics. Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the government, I join you in conveying our deepest condolences to his family and loved ones. We show our full support for them in this ordeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to observe a few moments of silence in tribute to our former colleague? The Chamber observed a minute of silence. The Chamber shall observe a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u8	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 January 2018, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law laying down various provisions on work, Nos 2768/1 to 7; - the names of the motions submitted to the conclusion of the interviews Nos 245, 246, 247 and 248 held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 22 December 2017. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 January 2018, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the bill on various provisions on employment, Nos. 2768/1 to 7; - the nominative votes on motions tabled at the conclusion of inquiry Nos. 245, 246, 247 and 248 developed at the public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service of 22 December 2017. After consulting the chairmen of the political groups, I propose that we vote on these motions immediately after the oral questions. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u9	I have received amendments to the draft law on postal services, Nos 2694/1 to 10. I have received amendments on the Postal Services Bill, Nos. 2694/1 to 10. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 January 2018, I propose that the draft bill be sent back to the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises in order to discuss these amendments. In accordance with the advice of the Conference of Presidents on January 10, 2018, I propose that the bill be referred to the Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises Committee to allow for the consideration of these amendments. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u10	Prime Minister, we could have hoped to begin the new year on a basis of serenity and with the hope that your Government will bring an appropriate response to the painful issue of the expulsion of people from Sudan, or even other regions subject to dictatorial regimes. We had an end of 2017 when, in the end, a secretary of state demonstrated his contempt for the institutions and made statements about you that no prime minister could have tolerated without demanding an immediate resignation. I would say that this is not to be overlooked, but we get tired of the repeated drifts that one of your partners imposes on you. What cannot be allowed to pass and what cannot be admitted is the fact that the entire Government has not taken into account the indignity of its position with regard to expulsion measures which have been ordered for a period of time in respect of persons who were not to be expelled under international law. No one can ignore the situation in Sudan. From United Nations Security Council resolution 1556 to the United Nations reminder in early 2017, which described the human rights situation in Sudan as one of the most horrific in the world, all signals were given. All the alarms had sounded to say that a government that respected international law could not under any circumstances engage in collaboration with the political authorities of a State so denounced by the international community. You have done so in disregard of the country's highest democratic tradition. There is a question, Prime Minister. You have ordered investigations that you are awaiting, as if we were to know what the risk is for those who would be evicted to Sudan. There is no international human rights NGO that does not denounce the threat to the evicted. And that's the risk that needs to be taken into account! We must not wait to see cases of torture in order to refuse expulsion. Prime Minister, this is a crucial moment in the political life of this country. It's a turning point and you know it! There is a public opinion that still has a sense of dignity and that asks you to make two fundamental commitments. The first is never to collaborate again with the services of a dictatorial regime and, a fortiori, that of Sudan. The second is not only to suspend, but to renounce, in accordance with international law, any expulsion that violates article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Theo Francken's position is not subject to discussion today, neither tomorrow nor the day after. He applied the law. This is the only real political response we have heard since we learned, on 22 December 2017, that Theo Francken had lied and that he had led you to lie to parliament and therefore to the Belgians. It is not you who give this political answer, but the president of the N-VA. Who is the true Prime Minister in Belgium? This is my first question. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be mistaken! The political question that has arisen for the past three weeks is not whether the Secretary of State has lied - I think few people still doubt it - or whether he still has a place in the government. The real question is who will take responsibility for this policy, the responsibility for this collaboration with the Sudan, which may have led men to torture. In the midst of lies, half-truths and contempt for parliament, however, there is a truth that you never mention, Prime Minister, the judgment of the Court of Appeal which finds Belgium's violation of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which points to the responsibilities of the Office for Foreigners and Mr Franken. On December 21st, you told us loudly about an investigation that would determine the responsibilities in this case. What is the status of this survey, which, in your opinion, should give its first results at the end of January and which, according to other sources, has not yet begun? Even though my hopes are weak to see political responsibility assumed, since Bart De Wever said: "If Theo goes away, I unplug the catch!", What exactly are the circumferences of this mission? Who's going to lead her? Did anyone go there, as the Secretary of State had also told us?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium is therefore cooperating with a dictatorship. It was initially a policy led by Theo Francken. Today, for the past few days, Prime Minister, you have taken full responsibility for this position. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not always thought that way. We will read the program you introduced to your electors in 2014. Page 474: "We would like to strongly recall that certain values inherited from the Enlightenment that led to the advent of democratic societies are universal in scope. These are the values that every democratic State needs." That's what you said in 2014. Sending Sudanese nationals back to Sudan, but also involving the political police of Omar el-Bashir in identification missions in Belgium, is this in line with the values of the Enlightenment? No! Second excerpt: "We obviously do not turn our backs on our international and moral obligations in terms of asylum or immigration". Page 447. Is this part of the programme compatible with the return of Sudanese nationals from Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kardofan to Sudan? No! The Secretary of State is lying to you. He knowingly lies to you and recognizes it here. However, you apply its point-by-point program. You now assume its point-by-point program. Ladies and gentlemen, you are renouncing your programme point by point! To remain the prime minister of a majority called Swedish, you must be the hostage of the N-VA. You are suffering, Prime Minister, from a much more serious syndrome, that of Stockholm! My question is simple. What's the status of this investigation you promised us here two weeks ago? Do you give all the material and human resources to complete this investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I am not going to go back to your Secretary of State's behaviour, his lies, the way he treated you, calling your words absurd, and the reasons why we have tabled a motion of distrust of him, calling for him to be removed from your government so that he may retain his dignity and credibility. I'm going to go back to your own commitments. Prime Minister, you told us here three weeks ago: "We are going to conduct an investigation. Stop your criticism! We want a counter-expertise, independent, fast, effective." The next day, your Minister of the Interior told us how this was going to be done. It had to be done just after Christmas Eve. That's what he said. That would be effective, very fast, we would have the European Commission and the United Nations agencies. We are three weeks later and since then you have said: "Stop your criticisms! You will have the clarity, the investigation is under way." There's no investigation. It's three weeks later. The CGRA has not left; Mr. Van den Bulck didn't leave. I hear we're always wondering how we're going to conduct this investigation. The diplomatic services of Mr Reynders are not there; our ambassador in Cairo, who should have been there already at the time when these Sudanese were expelled, did not mobilize. The European Commission is very surprised because it was not approached by the Belgian government, neither before the statements to Parliament, nor today. So, there's no investigation. Then the case is well done. You tell us to wait for the critics and you sit on it. Prime Minister, I ask you to be serious about your remarks in Parliament, as well as your Minister of the Interior. There must have been a quick investigation. You still do not know, you say, what has happened to these Sudanese nationals; you have not yet begun this investigation. You should have taken the first plane to find out what happened to them, if they had not yet been abused, in order to draw the political conclusions. Now I ask you when this investigation will be carried out, who will conduct it and when we will achieve its results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, you must be a satisfied man. You have almost the stupidest opposition in Europe and around here in the hemisphere. For three months already, a riot is cultivated that is not there. In my view, and in the eyes of most of the Flemish and, by the way, Walloon voters, the Secretary of State has made the mistake that he has turned out too few Sudanese. Apart from that, I believe that the most important thing to be done in the end is to mask and act as a smokescreen for the fact that the current government has absolutely no firm or strict immigration policy. The opposite is true. Prime Minister, Secretary of State, the riot gives her the chance at least to give her the impression and to create the perception that she is going against it very hard, very strict and very firm, which is not the truth. I'm just giving you three digits. The recognition rate for asylum seekers in this country was three out of ten under De Block Di Rupo, whereas that rate is six out of ten under Francken and Michel. For the number of illegals released, including some Sudanese people, we spoke under De Block Di Rupo about 81.5 % releases. Under Francken and Michel we are talking about 84.5% release. Mr President, the last figure concerns global immigration in this country. Take a good look. Under the Block Di Rupo we talked about an average per year of 125 000 new foreigners. Under Francken and Michel we talk about an average of 134 000 foreigners, which is 7% more than Di Rupo and De Block. Mr Francken, that is the reality of the foreign policy in 2018. There is no other. In conclusion, I would just like to say the following. The left-wing opposition wants to make you a kind of Flemish version of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban. However, you are not. You have not yet reached the ankles of Viktor Orban, who has a genuinely firm immigration policy. You are going further on to the immigration policy of the past, especially of the socialists and the traditional parties. You only have the merit of the perception and merit of making the opposition of you a knight in the fight against immigration, when in practice you are not and never have been.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Sudan deal has missed everything and it was actually written in the stars. On Facebook, you tried to dot the i, but you didn't get any further than a caricature that had to hide the fact that this federal government should have done better. For the record, this is not a story before or against Theo. It's not a European story either. The European Commission does not even want to be involved in the investigation. It's a matter for this government, Prime Minister. It's your case! You say that a deal was made with Sudan in other countries too, and that is true. However, the circumstances are completely different. Your secretary of state didn't know this. In September, he thought he was the first to make such a deal. We had to tell him that there were deals and that he might want to take a look at the best practices. There was none of that. There was no preparation. Zero. Prime Minister, you say that the opposition wants all Sudanese people to be recognised. That's not true. We want a proper return policy. You referred to Article 3 of the ECHR as a sacred principle. Then explain to us the circumstances and conditions under which you believe that this federal government should deport an African Sudanese from Darfur. Tell us! Make it clear to us if we do not understand! You say there is no alternative. From September onwards, we have sometimes repeated a number of things in every committee, including the majority. An interpreter had to be present, because DVZ did not understand what the identification committee did during the interviews. You've given Sudan control and lost control. Therefore, please do not say that you have shown the greatest possible caution in the return operation to Sudan. I have a number of specific questions about this. You announced an investigation with the big drum, but, for the record, you should have conducted that investigation in advance. What guarantees do you have that the investigation will be independent and how wide will it be? Can you explain to Parliament today who will do what and what will happen to the results? Is there any change in policy? Mr Bart De Wever, with whom we can never discuss in the hemisphere, says that he will not even take the results into account, and CD&V and Open Vld folds anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, three years ago, Europe faced an enormous migratory flow, but we must not forget that more millions of people have fled outside Europe. However, thanks to international agreements, thanks to the proper functioning of our services, of the judicial and police authorities, thanks to the good work of many municipal authorities, and not least thanks to the help of so many thousands of volunteers in our country, we have managed to manage this. It is easy to make a caricature of asylum policy. I prefer figures, which I put in the socially correct context. In the light of the international incidents, it is not illogical, but it is right that we have doubled the number of recognitions before the previous legislature, which we grant a multitude of humanitarian visas compared to a few years ago. The expulsions are increasing, but they are not increasing in proportion to the increase in the number of asylum seekers and/or illegal immigrants who have been rejected. Colleagues, the figures on repatriations to countries of origin remain stable, contrary to what I heard from the opposition this morning. Numbers don't lie. We don't send back eagerly. Prime Minister, during the Christmas holidays you argued for nuance and responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, those who have the right to protection are given them. We expect them to then integrate. Those who are not entitled to protection in accordance with the rules must return. However, as Mr Lanjri rightly said before Christmas, this is done in accordance with the rules and is done with respect for human rights. Mr Prime Minister, you also said that this is a sacred principle for you. In the light of the doubts expressed elsewhere, you have announced an independent and international investigation with a European and international dimension. Prime Minister, what is the state of play? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude on this difficult and delicate dossier. Pleading for human rights, pleading for dignity, is not advocating an open border policy. Pleading for human rights, pleading for dignity, is calling for a correct, rigorous but also human return policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, since the dismantling of the Camp de Calais in France, our country has experienced a significant increase in the number of asylum seekers. Belgium is a host country but also a state governed by the rule of law, which is why our government is pursuing a firm but humane policy. Human, because all files are analyzed on a case-by-case basis. Human, as nearly 15,000 people received international recognition last year. Human, because Belgium has granted more than 1,200 humanitarian visas, which is much more than in the past. But firm, because we do not want a new Calais in Belgium. Firm, as it is normal for a State governed by the rule of law to know the identity of persons residing in its territory. Close, because we want people who are ordered to leave the territory, to leave it effectively. This human and firm policy, the MR unequivocally supports it. Prime Minister, would you like to recall the measures taken to combat the problem of the presence of many people in Maximilian Park? Then, would you like to give us the figures and the rate of recognition for, in particular, Sudanese nationals? Finally, what position does Belgium intend to take in the debate on the Dublin II regulation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u18	Prime Minister, over the last few weeks we have had quite a few debates on Sudan, in committee, in plenary and during the recess outside the plenum. There have been quite a few creative representations of the facts put forward, as well as insinuations, which I would like to check with the heart of the matter. Thousands of refugees from Sudan have entered the European Union and refuse to apply for asylum. They do not do that in Italy, they do not do that in us or elsewhere. So they end up in illegality, but in a self-chosen illegality. The opposition gives the impression that this has happened to those involved, but all possibilities are offered to them. All the mechanisms of the rule of law have been correctly used, as should be the case. However, one likes to make it appear, read all the statements after reading that the government would have been messing with people. Laws and international rules were followed, as other countries do, also with regard to the refugees from Sudan. In this way, they were given an explicit offer to apply for asylum every time. But it is insinuated that all the rules would be violated. Then there have been rumors about the treatment of people in Sudan, who immediately led the state secretary, the government, to stop the repatriations. The opposition immediately turns these rumours into facts, as if any review was completely unnecessary. The Secretary of State, yourself and the government then decided to investigate those facts, as it should be. Apparently, there are quite a few people in the Chamber. It is fortunately a minority of people who consider an investigation absolutely unnecessary. A few rumours are sufficient to advocate them directly to the basis of the policy. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we want a policy based on facts within the framework of the agreed government policy. That is why I have a single question. After all, a number of them have already been put forward here, and you will certainly answer them. We have heard today the rather striking proposal that we should take asylum policy into our own hands. Prime Minister, my question is whether it is possible to return illegal or rejected asylum seekers, as the law requires, without cooperation with the countries of origin. That is a specific question to which I would like a specific answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u19	Prime Minister, your government is really resisting beacons. The Eyskensdoctrine, which consists of the fact that one does resign, except in a monkey country, used to be the exception and has now become the rule. Your government majority also opposes political communication beacons. Mr. De Wever post a yawning dromedary. Mrs. Rutten is posting a tile. Mr. Beke is posting a film by Michelle Obama. How can one actually become a child? However, it is about serious matters, such as the ban on torture. In the meantime, Parliament must not come together, because those Members could say stupidities. How can you even rhyme with that? Some colleagues here have taken the word 'lie' in their mouths. You yourself, Prime Minister, are talking about the fact that the whole truth has not been told. That's a subtle nuance. There are, indeed, matters about which your government is not telling the full truth, or rather not tweeting the full truth. When you look on Twitter, everything is under control here. Then one record after another is broken. In reality, that is not the case. The influx of foreigners into Belgium is now 7% higher than under the Di Rupo government. As far as forced return is concerned, the figures are now also lower than those of some previous governments. Let me compare, Mr Verherstraeten, the number of asylum applications granted for 2012 and 2016, in which the numbers of asylum applications are almost identical. In 2012, under Di Rupo, 22% of asylum applications were granted. In 2016, under Michel, that was 64 %. That's three times more. We now publish those figures on our website. After all, the Flemings are entitled not only to tweets, not only to yelling dromedaries, but also to the right and the real figures. I don't dispute that good things have happened. Good things have happened. Backdoors are closed. There are special flights for illegal criminals. But the policy your Secretary of State is tweeting is not the one he pursues. Mr Verherstraeten has just admitted that, in other words. I actually have one question for you. Here, explain to the Chamber and to the people the real policy of your government and not the policy that is being tweeted and which many people think is being implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, asylum and migration is a very sensitive issue. I know what I'm talking about. I've been in office for six years. One gets calluses on one's soul. "Eelt on my soul" is therefore the title of a booklet I wrote after the end of those six years. It's a dirty job, someone wrote, but someone has to do the job. First of all, I would like to say something about asylum and migration policy in general, Prime Minister, and then about the position of your Secretary of State. The general asylum and migration policy is based on the government agreement negotiated by the four parties of this majority and which I continue to respect and support until today. There are no hundred-and-one solutions. If people come here and are illegally on our territory, they can apply for asylum. If they refuse to do so, they are illegal in our territory and then the policy, the government, must do something about it, if not there will be Calais' or Maximilaanparks here in Brussels and then the Prime Minister will be asked what he wants to do about it. You must do something with it, Prime Minister. The final part of any asylum and migration policy is a return policy. That is the least pleasant thing about the whole policy, but it is necessary. Your government, your Secretary of State, may consult other countries of the European Union. What are the countries around us doing? What does Germany do? What does France do? What does Italy do? What does the Netherlands do? They are all doing the same thing: they are also repatriating Sudanese citizens who are illegally staying on their territory. There's no other way. We must do this in a humane way, but this is the only conclusion. I also agree with the question of how to repatriate someone without the cooperation of the country to which they are to be repatriated. There is one point intriguing me on this, Prime Minister, and I would like to explain it, particularly Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. It would be a good thing if the Convention were applied in the same way by all the countries that have endorsed it. I wonder how this is done in Germany, the Netherlands or France. In other words, I believe that your government should take an initiative there. I would like to make another point, Mr President, and I will refrain from replying if necessary. Mr Prime Minister, a few months ago I said that the style of your Secretary of State is not ours. You summoned him, he apologized and you took note of it, but you didn't accept the apology. If I were to talk about him the way he talked about you, I'd say all the time, "What did he do, what possessed him?" And so on. That's not how people talk about the head of government. I wonder why one constantly tweets and communicates with each repatriation of a different colored fellow man, almost slightly euphoric. I also wonder why a photo is being posed with the ambassador of a Sudanese dictator who is wanted by a war tribunal. That doesn't add up to asylum policy. What surprises me is that I do not get that explained to myself, for which my mind is too small, is that the policy itself shows other figures, in particular that the number of humanitarian regularizations was never so high, that the number of recognitions was never so high. In other words, there is more than continuity with the past. In this respect, the Secretary of State is doing better in the eyes of the left than the centre-left governments in the past. My question is, why does he do that? I'll tell you why. By the way, I see two colleagues here applauding now. You really shouldn't do that for something I say, colleagues. So he's doing that because he's trying to seduce the voters of those two colleagues. He is trying to create a communication aimed at getting voters from the Flemish Interest to the N-VA. The lesson I draw from this is the following question: how far can one go in seducing far-right voters without deviating themselves from the path of democracy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is not about Theo Francken's career. The debate is about people's lives and respect for human rights. We have a completely derailed asylum policy in our country; all reasonableness is far from being sought. A return policy is certainly necessary, absolutely, no matter how hard it is, Mr Dewael. But a return policy is being developed without exceeding a number of red lines. That has happened three times here, and these are facts, Mr De Roover. They don't send people back when they're tortured, but they apply the law. It is checked whether Article 3 of the ECHR is being complied with before sending people back to avoid running risks. People don't invite secret agents from al-Bashir to take over our procedures. People don't lie to the Fleming and to the Prime Minister. Those are three facts, where the red line has been crossed three times. Three times reason is lost; one exaggerates. No one is arguing for open borders; we are calling for the application of the law, my fellow Members of the N-VA, for respect for our values and values, which we must defend in Europe, and for respect for human rights. I have the impression that the folds are smoothed by the majority; we can go back to the order of the day. I haven't heard CD&V say a word about the Sudanese. I appreciate Mr Dewael's communication. I appreciate his speech and his criticism of the Secretary of State's style, but meanwhile it is also about the content, about the policy itself, about cooperation with the agents of al-Bashir, about sending people back, without first applying the law, without checking whether there is a risk of torture. Things like that go a long way over it. Prime Minister, you kept your mouth shut for a long time during the ceremony. You've been hiding. We were in joyous expectation of your moral leadership, but we have neither seen nor heard it. I have three questions for you. I would like to give you the opportunity to recapture and express a clear commitment, not only in relation to the communication style, but also in relation to the content itself. Firstly, will our country once again take control of the asylum procedure and stop the identification missions with the Sudanese agents? Secondly, will you demand that Theo Francken apply the law from now on and therefore review Article 3 before people are returned? Thirdly, may a Secretary of State lie to you and to the Fleming, Mr. Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u22	Prime Minister, I'm going to start by quoting you: "Francken didn't tell the whole truth, but he didn't lie either." I went to see the Larousse. I read this: "mentor: verb intransitif. Dissimulate, deliberately disguise the truth, deny or silence what should be said." The conclusion is clear, Prime Minister: a lying Secretary of State has no place in the government. A secretary of state who knowingly incites hatred and division has no place in an executive. A secretary of state who exploits politically the fact of sending Sudanese to torture has no place in a government. That is the reality, Prime Minister! The worst thing is that – and I'm not talking about speech or form, but about substance – you agree. You agree to work with the Sudanese dictatorship and therefore to send people to torture. Moreover, this collaboration is the result of a process completed by the European Union: the Khartoum process, under which the European Union decided to outsource the policy of European borders to dictatorships that practice torture. It must be recognised that Belgium is applying it with particular zeal. Before I tell you about the investigation you said you ordered, I'd like to go back to the analysis of the Foreign Office. Indeed, on 26 September, you told us that, prior to the return to Sudan, this body had assessed the risk of a violation of article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. We asked you for this analysis, by the voice of my colleague Raoul Hedebouw in plenary session. Both of us wrote to you to get it, but in vain. Prime Minister, are you finally going to give us the report of the Foreign Office on the risks of human rights violations in Sudan or are you going to tell us that this review has not taken place? Then, do you find it normal to keep in your government a Secretary of State who lies and deliberately incites hatred? Lastly, what was the status of the investigation into persons who had allegedly been tortured? What initiative will you take if these facts are proven?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many of you have said this, both in the majority and in the opposition: asylum and migration policies do indeed require shade and responsibility. We were confronted in August with a difficult situation in the heart of Brussels, as a result of the dismantling by the French of the jungle of Calais. It has been a problem for this country for many years, with more than 10,000 individuals, mostly unidentified, present on this site. We were confronted with this difficult situation during the summer and we opted for a multidisciplinary approach, for example with regard to minors, with the Minister of Justice. We have worked hard, for example with the Minister for Health, and we have also taken initiatives, largely in cooperation with the local authorities, the mayors and the Brussels Region. We tried, day after day, during the month of August, to take action. Indeed, we did not want to see the development of an area of non-right, in which unidentified persons would evolve. It is a matter of public order and the responsibility of a government and authority. We have found that some people decide not to apply for asylum and not to be in a legal situation. They had the right, of course, on the basis of national and international rules, to make such a request or not. Persons who claimed to be Sudanese nationals were in this situation. I have already explained this to myself and I repeat it here for transparency and for me to be understood. It was in this context that it was decided that an identification mission would be carried out for eleven days. As a result, nine removal decisions were made in respect of nine Sudanese. On this mission of identification, I hear the lessons of morality and good conscience. But no one will tell my conscience what to do about it. Although few have said so, in the opposition, what I regret, I observe that... Other European countries have exactly the same approach in this regard: France, Great Britain, Italy, Norway. That is the reality. In order to pursue a return policy within the framework of the European Union, we need to find a form of cooperation. It is, therefore, a point that many have failed to highlight. Contrary to what some are trying to make believe, there is no extravagance, an exception, a different method at the start of the Belgian government in relation to this point and – I repeat – for a specific mission for a very specific number of days. Let us look at some additional points on this subject! On Thursday 21 December I came to Parliament to give information. After all, we had read information in Het Laatste Nieuws about possible serious facts. These were indeed serious facts alleged by an institute: the Tahrir Institute. I am not aware, in any case at this stage, of other NGOs or United Nations agencies that have revealed the facts in this way on the basis of the individuals involved. Immediately, given the seriousness of the allegations that have been made and that we have taken seriously, the principle of an investigation has been decided and confirmed by Kern – Mr Dallemagne, I am replying precisely on this subject. Indeed, as early as Friday 22 December, we instructed the Minister of the Interior to inform CGRA of our wish to launch an independent investigation. The CGRA, on the basis of the law, is an independent authority. Of course, we do not want to interfere with the way in which the CGRA is going to conduct this investigation. Otherwise, we would be criticized, of course. On the initiative of the government, Minister Jambon asked that the CGVS should propose a form of cooperation with the European Commission and the United Nations, without the certainty that these European and international bodies will accept it. We do not know what they will do in this regard. We have not set a time limit in this respect. We hope to get an answer, a result, as soon as possible. I have already said a number of times that we hope, without any doubt, for an answer from the independent investigation before the end of this month. We hope that a response, whose ambition is to clarify the alleged facts, will be provided in this regard at the end of the month. I am not afraid of transparency about how international and European law was applied. That is the crux of the matter. There is a strong commitment in this assembly and, of course, in the government too, it is also stated in the government agreement to apply national, European and international law in full respect. Mr. Maingain, you are giving us lessons in international law on the subject. I listen to them carefully. You know, like me, that the rule of law, that the application of law is not a matter for the mathematical sciences. It's not an exact science. It is a human science with women and men of good faith and good will at the Office of Foreigners, at CGRA, in courts and tribunals, who have to rule on individual cases on a case-by-case basis. I repeat, it's in this context... I share Mr Dewael's view that Article 3 is a crucial point of our architecture. It is in this context that the Office of Foreigners is responsible for the application of Article 3 and it is also in this context that I hope that the investigation will show how the whole of the law, including Article 3, has been applied in this case. Mr. Dewael puts his finger on a central point. I am curious to know – I have not yet received an answer – how Article 3 is applied in the countries around us, according to what criteria, what factors. I believe that this is a European issue. In recent months, we have taken the initiative to reform the Dublin agreements at European level. Trying to harmonise the application of European law therefore seems to me to be common sense. Article 3 is a crucial principle for human rights. I am committed to that commitment, Mr Dewael. I will take initiatives at European level to force a debate on this. This seems to me to be particularly important for the future. I would like to make one more important point that is necessary if we are to have a serene and rational debate. I noted a few days ago that there was a great deal of commotion about the note from the High Commissioner for Refugees, which dates back to October. Some have misinterpreted that note on the situation in Sudan. The note is proof that it is intended that the services make an application case by case. This October note was truncated in a number of comments that were made. The CGRA - the body whose independence is guaranteed by the law passed in parliament - demonstrates that in a number of provinces, granting subsidiary protection is necessary but also that it is not automatic - memory in 11 out of 18 provinces. On the other hand, CGRA also mentions population categories that are likely to undergo unacceptable treatment. This CGRA note is an additional piece of evidence to enable the authorities to apply, on a case-by-case basis, the principles of the rule of law in a firm and humane manner. The investigation will have to demonstrate, explain or inform whether this note has been taken into account correctly or not with respect to the different cases we have been confronted with. In addition, I hear a number of caricatures or outbursts that are invading the debate. That is why I solemnly call on everyone to show nuance and responsibility in such sensitive and sensitive matters because the lives of men and women are at stake. We have demonstrated our humanity, as some have rightly said. This is a strong commitment. I refer to humanitarian visas, recognitions, even in difficult times like two years ago. We have proved a very nuanced policy. I am fully determined to show inflexible combativity and I will pursue a policy that protects European borders. I will fight for a policy that does not allow a jungle of Belgian Calais to develop. I am fully committed to upholding human rights, European and international conventions. I do not fear the findings of the investigation, from which we will have to draw informed political assessments. I don't agree with the trial with the pluck that some people want to lead, an attitude that I don't like. When the investigation is carried out, we will come back to Parliament in due course and present it and the political consequences that we will derive from it, in full transparency. I share the reasoning that the issue of migration and asylum policy requires nuanced action and communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u24	Prime Minister, you have taken up the arguments we knew. We were expecting a surge of collective moral will on the part of your government. I didn't hear it. First of all, stop telling us that if there is no Calais in Belgium, it is thanks to the action of your government. It is thanks to the action of the thousands of citizens who preserve the honour of this country by providing support to these people, who would be totally delivered to themselves because of the absence of accompanying measures. It is so true that when the Brussels health authorities gave the alert to cases of tuberculosis, your government departments did not provide an organized or systematic response. More fundamentally, Prime Minister, cease to invoke the cowardice of others in an attempt to excuse yours. You don't save your dignity by looking less worthy than you do. If that's it, your last argument, then we're heading for a Munich! That's what's threatening us! Let us have the will to act with all international jurisdictions. The European Court has also reminded Italy that Article 3 applies to refugee or protection candidates from Sudan, without distinction, contrary to what you claim. You were informed by decisions of the Foreign Litigation Council since July. Don't tell us that we had to wait for court decisions: they existed. All the signals have been provided to you. In fact, a Secretary of State has decided to conduct his own policy and communication, to the detriment of the essential principles enshrined in international conventions. You're trying to mask him, but nobody's fooled!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u25	Prime Minister, as I said earlier, there are two constants in your silences. First, it was recalled, neither in your interviews nor in your speeches here or on your Facebook posts, not a word for this citizen mobilization which makes that today, Brussels is not the jungle of indignity. Then you never talk about the convictions that have taken place! Five in a week who declare that Sudanese are being detained because their case has not been properly examined under article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Mr Prime Minister, defending human rights, guaranteeing fundamental principles, ensuring respect for the law and democratic rules is not lax! This is not just a principle of the left, but of all the Democrats! You decided to get away from it for a few crumbs of power from Antwerp! You're the hostage of the N-VA! Indeed, you have Stockholm syndrome: not only do you dance as she whistles, but you cover her indignity, her politics and the cynicism of her Secretary of State! We have proof of your liberalism for humanity in all its splendor today! I fear that, whatever the investigation and whatever the results, whatever the citizen's mobilisation, whatever the decisions of the courts, there will be no political responsibility - and we will see it later - because Antwerp has decided to do so. Prime Minister, in a few months you have lost his greatness to this function, given by your predecessors. [[Brouhahaha]] But where is your responsibility? Where is your dignity? Where's the Prime Minister, Mr. Michel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u26	Prime Minister, asylum and migration, it is indeed a complex issue that requires nuance. As some colleagues have pointed out, if you do not have to run a Calais bis in Brussels, it is because thousands of families decide to do the work of the state. Today, thousands of families tell the stories of these people who crossed Africa, then the Mediterranean and part of southern Europe. Thousands of Belgians are in symbiosis with these migrants who want to join England. We are, with the North of France, the nearest country. It's a geographical fact. Why are these migrants in transit not seeking asylum in Belgium? Because there is an extravagance, Prime Minister, that of your Secretary of State who appears with the Omar el-Bashir police at the Brussels-National airport. Why don't they ask for asylum? Why? No matter what the outcome of the investigation, unfortunately – it seems that it is terribly badly embroiled – you have already made a choice. This choice is to keep your Secretary of State and his policies. Dear Liberal colleagues, where are you? Where's your program? Pull yourself together!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u27	Prime Minister, I don't know if I still have to call you Prime Minister. [[Protests in the room]] Yes! Of course! He chose a flight forward! Not a word to reframe his secretary of state. Mr. Dewael had to do it! He chose the flight forward. He chose to be mistreated. He chose the government's humiliation! He chose the indignity of this government. He chose the last word to be that given by Bart De Wever, who said: "Circle! There's nothing to see." That Bart De Wever who's not even here to listen to him. He despises this Parliament so much that it is not even here! He sets the country and parliament on fire, but he's not here. He's staying in his "Trump Tower"! Mr. De Wever has important responsibilities in what is happening in this country today. He said it! But more than that, what is inconceivable – and I really weigh my words, with the political experience I have gained for several years – is that these Sudanese have been expelled without accompanying them. I remember Mr Duquesne who had sent Roma back to Slovakia. The ambassador was at the foot of the plane to make sure nothing happened to them. It was an outcry, but at least the ambassador was there. Today, these people have not been accompanied. They could be. Not only have they not been, but for the past two months, we have not known what has happened to them. In any case, that is what the government claims. In the last three weeks, this investigation has not yet started. It is totally inconceivable that no one took the plane to Khartoum to find out what happened to these nationals! Prime Minister, get together! Be really Prime Minister, by going to see what's going on there. Then give us an account of your findings. And develop a policy that is consistent with principles that we obviously accept, but that sound today as a hollow slogan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u28	Mr President, I do not like to say it and I do not often say it, but Patrick Dewael was right today when he said that the left should in fact applaud Theo Francken's policy. More humanitarian regularisations than ever, a doubling of the recognition of asylum seekers, 7% more immigrants in our country than on average during the period of Di Rupo and De Block, and so on. I read in The New York Times today that Theo Francken is the Flemish Trump. They call him an immigrant hardliner. They don't know him, and mostly they don't know the numbers. The Sudanese do not cost Theo Francken, the Sudanese save the head of Theo Francken and save the immigration image of the N-VA. Left, stop it! The N-VA does exactly what you've always done in recent years. It has no other policy. That is the European policy that is imposed on it and not on the policies of, for example, the Visegrad countries. If the communication of Theo Francken is indeed the policy, I would applaud today, but unfortunately communication is completely at odds with the reality of the policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, if this government had shown sufficient caution, we would not have had this debate here. I have asked Secretary of State Francken several times how many cases after an investigation under Article 3 have been decided not to return Sudanese. I can't get an answer to those questions, so it'll probably be 0. A procedure where the result is always 0: then that procedure does not exist or is not applied. You yourself say that applying law is not an exact science. Prime Minister, I have tabled a legislative proposal to set up a follow-up committee on return policy, with different partners, to examine the extent to which legislation is being respected. Open Vld and CD&V, maybe next time you can majority. What also strikes me is that you do not allow yourself to make statements about Francken or about Francken's attitude. I belong to CD&V, on the other hand, and I also notice that our good colleague, Mrs Lanjri, who often makes very critical remarks, has to remain silent here today. Mr Dewael, a compliment to your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u30	Mr De Coninck, I think you have listened to the Prime Minister differently than I have listened to him. I listened to him very carefully. I heard him say that asylum policy must be nuanced. He also said that communication on asylum must be nuanced. I'm sure the relevant Secretary of State will have understood that hint. [[Rumor]] Ladies and gentlemen, communication must be in line with policy. Communication must support policy. The communication of a member of the government shall not serve purely electoral purposes. Communication is not meant to polarize and turn people against each other. That's not our style, and he never will be. Prime Minister, asylum policy will indeed be strict if it is absolutely necessary, but it will always be humane, it will always be human, it will always be just and under the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u31	Prime Minister, when we hear the caricatures, the provocations and the particularly outrageous way, sometimes, with which the opposition communicates to you, we can only appreciate the nuance that you have shown today on this delicate issue. The world is not black or white and it is important for the government to apply a balance in the firm but humane position it adopts, that is, that which respects European and international law, that which ensures that there are no people expelled when they are in danger. We will ensure that this happens well in the future. Prime Minister, we will assume our responsibilities. We are shocked to see how some members of the opposition communicate with you and we bitterly regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, you will not be surprised that I do not have the ambition to applause from the opposition. Besides, I don't think I could do that either. Against the background of a series of interventions we have heard here, it is sometimes difficult to remain serious. Moreover, I believe that an important part of the debate can be envyed by the word, but that aside. I suppose the viewers will also feel a little disoriented. Is Theo Francken some kind of bad version of Hannibal Lecter now? Or should we even say that Minnie Mouse is stricter than Theo Francken in policy? In fact, I have the impression that you are pilgrimage, Mr Secretary of State. There is also a debate about style here, apparently. That's very strange. Everyone has their own style, their own way. If all the politicians whose style could be noticed were to resign, there would be huge gaps in the opposition. Is that why it's allowed to be about the facts? It was illustrated here, surprisingly enough by government critics, that our policy is strict but fair. I did not expect much news today, but there has actually been good news in this debate. The masks have lost weight. In this debate, the opposition has shown itself to be intellectually committed, with the winding paths that have been followed to put forward an alternative. The opposition and the left say that we should not cooperate with Sudan, for example. Be honest, good colleagues. Call it by the name. You have expressed an open border policy here today. It would be nice if you were honest about that. The strange thing is that you are ashamed of the consequence of what you have said here. You would put forward a proposal whereby we are the only country that under no circumstances, even under manifest abuse, could send people back to Sudan. Dear friends, that's your choice. That's not the government's choice. It goes for a strict but fair asylum policy. It is good that public opinion has seen that difference so clearly demonstrated today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u33	The brave center on policy and tough Hannibal Lectertaal on Twitter. That image is completely accurate. I am very pleased that today has shown that the policy that is being tweeted and the policy that is being pursued are two different worlds. You confirmed that, Prime Minister. Several parties from the majority have also confirmed this. However, the problem remains. We can't control the flow of migration. A number of countries are trying to do that. It is not just about countries that used to be behind the Iron Curtain, such as the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary. It is also about countries such as Denmark and Austria. They want to work on integration first because they are lagging behind in this area. I believe that this also applies to our country. I think it would be useful to get in touch with these countries to see whether we cannot radically commemorate European asylum policy, with respect for human rights. Some colleagues are wrong to think that it is only possible for human rights to keep as many people here as possible or to bring them here. That is not the case! Within human law standards, refugees can be perfectly received in the country of origin or in the neighbouring countries. The EU could secure and support this. Prime Minister, it would be useful if you and your Secretary of State were to do so. Maybe you should start that reflection. At least that would be much more useful than effectively playing Hannibal Lecter on Twitter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u34	Mr President, I agreed with you that I would refrain from replying, given that my speaking time was exceeded. I just wanted to take this opportunity to say that I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. This answer is the basis for my group to support the simple motion in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u35	Mr Prime Minister, if I could, I would ask you one more question: will something really change after your answer or not? After all, your answer was cryptic, bypassed almost every dangerous cliff and at the end there was half a sentence about the communication that must be a bit nuanced. Will something change now or not? Will our country continue to invite those Sudanese secret agents into our offices? Do you know that there have even been talks between the Sudanese and the secret agents without an interpreter being present, so that our own Belgian officials did not even know what was actually said and whether or not pressure was being exerted? You're referring to the investigation, but you don't need it to get rid of it. You also do not need the investigation to establish that the law has not been applied, because Article 3 has not been reviewed. I am not saying that; that is what the Foreign Office says, which speaks of a minimal review because those people have not applied for asylum. What does the law say, Prime Minister? You know that. The law says that people who do not apply for asylum should be sent back. We agree with this, but that is on one condition, namely that these people are not at risk of torture in their country of origin. That investigation was not conducted by your services. The conclusion of the debate, despite all good intentions and words, is that there may not be too much change in the facts. I was counting on you to put asylum policy back on the right track, because a realistic asylum policy can also be humane, and that is what the government fails to do over and over again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u36	Mr Prime Minister, you said that we should go to the other countries to see how Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights is applied, so that it can be applied in the same way here. As if this article was not clear! I'll read it to you: "No one can be subjected to torture or inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment." What is not clear in this article? I don't think it's clear. Indeed, if you compare with other countries, you may see that not everyone is necessarily very observant. And so you will come to this conclusion: instead of Belgium and your government being a model for human rights, you will be the driving force behind the official return of people to countries where people are being tortured. Prime Minister, I want to denounce this divisive speech – supported by some or explicitly announced by others in this government – that respecting basic rights such as human rights and not sending people to torture would be a threat to the social protection of the population in Belgium. No, Prime Minister, the threat to the social protection of our people is this government that represents it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u37	Mr President, Prime Minister, first of all, my best wishes for the new year, also on behalf of my group. Mr Prime Minister, we are pleased that after three weeks of silence, you are right to raise a number of important issues with us. One of these issues is the Energy Pact. In 2003, this assembly decided, at that time as a pioneer, to leave nuclear power in 2025, 22 years later. In 2014, you concluded a coalition agreement confirming the core exit. In 2015, this Parliament passed a law reaffirming the core exit. In recent months, four energy ministers in this country have negotiated an Energy Pact which also confirms the core exit. Just before Christmas, you committed yourself to finally cutting the knot at the beginning of this new year, in the context of good intentions. Then what happened? When all Belgians wanted to start their Christmas turkey, Bart De Wever started his Christmas media offensive. He said he did not care about what was decided in 2003, 2014 and 2015 nor what the Prime Minister had said. The N-VA announced at that time that the decision on the core exit will only be taken after the 2019 elections. Mr Prime Minister, postponing this decision means sabotaging the Energy Pact and the core exit. This actually means making it even more difficult for the climate and making it even more difficult for the wallet of ordinary Belgians. So don't let that delay be a setback. After the last few days, weeks and months, of course, there is also a political dimension. After all, you cannot blame us for wondering, like the many compatriots, who is actually in charge in this country. Do we have a prime minister, yes or no? My next question is relatively simple but very important in that respect. It is above all an opportunity for this Prime Minister to confirm that we are going to leave nuclear power and that we are going to take a decision on the Energy Pact this year. It's my only question. We can have the technical debate at another time, with great pleasure. Prime Minister, I expect a clear answer from you to a clear question. Will the Energy Pact be decided at the beginning of this year, yes or no? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, at the end of 2017 the Energy Pact dossier experienced many twists, which, in my view, did not meet the major political challenge of such a crucial issue. The conclusion of this vaudeville was the act of submission to your main majority partner, once again postposing the adoption of a pact supported by all the energy ministers of this country. Now you are building on the virtues of good governance by requiring a pre-costing of the Energy Pact. Yet, Prime Minister, there is your words and then there is the facts. Many studies have already been carried out which enumerate various nuclear-exit scenarios. In addition, your Minister of Energy agreed at length when asked about the progress of the Energy Pact and its practical implications. And now you are demanding the production of a new study! When you took the lead in the government in 2014, the deadline for the release of nuclear power was so deep that a tendering mechanism to provide for alternative capacity was already under way. Today, your only achievement is to have defeated what existed without replacing any concrete alternative. So these eternal delays hide three years of lost legislature. The country needs something else. The schizophrenia shown by this majority is becoming more and more worrying as the country's energy future suffers its symptoms. We see you assert that the signing of the Pact will take place after the encryption, while the president of the N-VA has announced since Antwerp that it will be for the next legislature. Today, we learn in the press that the construction of a new nuclear power plant would be under consideration. Is that correct? I'm waiting for confirmation from you. My questions are therefore very clear and call for an answer without any ambiguity on your part. What progress has been made since the last plenary session and in what direction have they been made? Do you or do you not confirm that your government, down from all the commitments you have made in recent years, is considering whether or not to build a new nuclear power plant? Can you pledge that your government will lift its blockade of the Pact and confirm its release from nuclear power by 2025 before the end of this Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u39	Mr Prime Minister, at the end of last year we were here, and we felt like celebrating the Energy Pact together. But at the same time, that pact was collapsed by the N-VA at the mouth of the chairman of the N-VA, who said: over my dead body. In fact, the pact was buried before we discussed it here and everything is now being raised about the elections. Apparently, the Christmas turkey got something from the N-VA after all. That party has come to some understanding, at least in the case in question. There are many others. In this dossier, the tone has been somewhat softened, Mr Prime Minister, is it not? It is now very unclear what one wants. There will be a new study, a study costing EUR 25 000. That study must be completed by the end of January, so the deadline is very short. The specialists stress that this should not be a problem, because all the figures are available, the calculations have been made and there are already several studies. Mr Tommelein has even stated that we can now decide, as he has all the information. Only, Prime Minister, you do not decide. You've been plopped for the blackmail again. There's gonna be a study so far. But the question now is what is the intention of the N-VA. Does the Commission intend to use this study to provide the data, we have put everything at risk and we have taken everything out of the box to keep two nuclear power stations open? Or will she cooperate loyally, carry out the coalition agreement and, above all, cut the knot now? It is high time, Prime Minister. All studies say it: if we do not decide on the core exit in the coming months, we will no longer have to discuss it, because then the alternatives will not be there and we will not be ready for the core exit. Firstly, would you confirm once again that you and your government fully support the core trip? Secondly, how will you implement the Energy Pact and finally make the decisions, so that we are ready for the core exit by 2025?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the coalition agreement stipulates that we are developing an energy vision, focusing on safe, affordable and sustainable electricity for our businesses and our families. You have stated here in Parliament that these points are not details and that they are important. When I hear a number of Members here, it seems that everything is wiped off the table. Whatever it costs, it doesn't matter. Go ahead. Mr Calvo has just said that existing studies which point to an additional cost of hundreds of millions of euros are not true and that this costs less. According to him, these studies can be thrown into the garbage can. They're fake news and there's no need to do anything about it. Colleagues, on the other side of the street, in the Flemish Parliament, the Green Group leader states that the extra cost of renewable energy cuts on the family budget. This is where Green points out that the cost is a technical discussion, on which the debate should be held later. Now it is up to the Greens to decide, no matter what the cost. Prime Minister, it is important that we work on security, on affordability and on the sustainability of the flow. That is why I very much welcome the fact that you have requested additional calculations and that the figures in this regard have been announced. I also welcome the fact that you will discuss the Energy Pact and the energy vision with stakeholders. Professor Albrecht is collecting the much-needed figures and studying them more closely. That's a good step. It is a step in the right direction to finally get what we need on the table, namely the answer to the question of how much it will cost, whether it can be done and whether it can be done. In 2017, you mentioned the responsibility of everyone to do so. We agree with that. What are the next steps? When are the numbers gonna be there? What's being studied? When will you discuss the dossier with the stakeholders?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u41	Prime Minister, for the past four years we have been waiting for the signing of this Energy Pact, which is promised to us by announcement: "We are there, we are almost there, we will almost succeed." And as the four competent ministers come to an agreement, everyone is called to order from Antwerp: "Oh, guys, let's calm down! I haven't decided anything yet. So, nothing is going to be decided." Prime Minister, I am somewhat surprised at this way of working. The N-VA requires numbers. The N-VA wants numbers. So we are waiting for a fourth or even a fifth study, because, as you know, fellow Members, these studies exist. I'm thinking about Elia. I'm thinking about the Planning Agency. Prime Minister, how much is such a new study going to cost again? 25 000 euros? The press reports 100 000 euros. Maybe you could let us know how much money an additional study costs? And even worse, while I thought, like everyone else in this country, that this study should calculate how much a nuclear trip in Belgium would cost, the press releases of this afternoon show that the study is also studying the option of building a new nuclear power station. Building another nuclear power plant is one of the scenarios studied by this government. And I ask you the question, Prime Minister, because it will be technically complicated to build a power plant to shut it down in 2025: do you confirm that the government has examined the option of building an additional nuclear power plant? When it comes to figures, ladies and gentlemen, I will give you a few: 400 million euros of profit per year for ENGIE Electrabel, these are the figures! To pay 1 000 kilowatt hours, the large companies are asked for 40 euros and all Belgians, to the ordinary consumer, 180 euros. Those are the numbers. That's money that goes straight to abroad, to ENGIE. But there is not much to say about the ENGIE lobby here, Mr Wollants. Apparently that lobby works well, to block everything here and put that EUR 400 million in the pocket every year. My dear Prime Minister, I ask you the question: will we finally decide to put an end to nuclear power? Will we finally decide not to charge this judgment by our fellow citizens? As with the Turteltaks, because with the Turteltaks it was once again the consumer who had to pay. There's enough money in multinationals. Go get the money! Finally, do you confirm the government's study to build a new nuclear power plant?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are dealing with a very serious subject. Since 2003, it has been the subject of decisions whose ambition is to leave nuclear power in the long run. This government has assumed its responsibilities for the past three years. I would like to tell you how, in the coming weeks and months, we will be working on this important issue. During December we received the draft Energy Minister's pact and for the first time we had a discussion on it at its core. So we have taken note of the draft pact. I confirmed that. We have asked for more information, more figures, from four important intentions. So, Mr Calvo, these are not technical details, which is crucial for our future economy, crucial for social cohesion and people's purchasing power, crucial for the competitiveness of our companies. Point one is the security of supply, point two is the effects on invoices and on competitiveness, point three is the Paris agreements and point four is the security of infrastructure. These are four very important principles. They're also in the coalition agreement. The aim is to develop a pact with respect for the four intentions. These four objectives, each of them knows them here and I regret, once again, Mr Calvo, the simplistic manner in which you are overreacting. What is our requirement? To bring together four principles that are spontaneously inconsistent, to ensure that there is cohesion and coherence for these four principles. Secondly, we considered that additional information points should be requested – this was confirmed this week – by Kern, so that the Planning Office, together with experts on the federal side, could look at the different patterns and scenarios in terms of investments, impact on invoices, so that they could have full, complete and transparent knowledge of the data and figures. In due course, these will be able to be widely shared in order to achieve this Pact. Of course, my ambition is to make the Energy Pact a reality this year. I would also like to add, on this important subject, that we will continue our efforts and work. We did not wait for either intervention to do so. The green bonds worth EUR 5 billion will enter into force effectively in 2018. That's a strong commitment. EUR 5 billion for more support, for greater respect for the Paris agreements. Point two, the interconnections. A few weeks ago in Zeebrugge there was the opening of a very important infrastructure for strengthening interconnections. Point three, the wind farms. Here too, there are strong decisions, strong commitments, with a clear framework and legal certainty to give an opportunity to invest more in green energy. I cannot accept this simplistic repetition overtly. Mr. Calvo, you had a moment of truth: "We're not going to do any technique." No, I understand that! You never want to look at the bottom of the files. You want to be content with simplisticness, insult and outburst. I have another approach to politics!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u43	Prime Minister, you really don't understand, you really don't understand. You have a Parliament full of allies here, and simply because you are afraid to contradict the N-VA, you are attacking the opposition. How foolish can one be, while I simply defend the Energy Pact of Marie-Christine Marghem, until recently, to my knowledge, member of your political formation. So I think it's kind of stupid what you're doing right now. That's wind in Mr. Wollants' sails. I would also like to say something about the energy bill. The N-VA has zero credibility if it is concerned about the energy bill. After all the decisions you have taken in the Federal and Flemish Parliaments that have pushed people's energy bills up to the level, you should be the first to remain silent about this. I am pleased that Mr Wollants' new nuclear power station will be examined. I am pleased that the utopia of the N-VA to build a new power station and continue with nuclear energy until 2065 is being calculated for the first time. Then the Fleming will know that these nuclear Flemish alliance are air cyclists and that it is high time to decide to close the old power stations. Finally, Prime Minister, I have one more message: use your allies. There is incredible support for the Energy Pact to be decided. Although you are attacking us, although you are so stupid to attack me, you should simply tell Bart De Wever that he is coming to Parliament to convince us instead of telling us on TV that the power stations will not be shut down. The Weaver doesn't have that courage. There is an incredible parliamentary majority here, and you can use it. We are submitting the resolution, we are allies of Marie-Christine Marghem, we are allies of the core exit. We will decide on that. Mr. Wollants, you will not stop us. The Conservatives will not stop our country. We're moving on to the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u44	Prime Minister, thank you for your response, which surprises me with its generality. Indeed, there were very specific questions about the Energy Pact, about its necessary implementation during this legislature. Of course, we do not make fun of sustainable energy. We do not mock the prices that will be needed to pay for this energy from households and businesses. Of course, we want security of supply and respect COP 21. We have made these commitments. But, Prime Minister, all of this was known as early as 2014. You put it in your government agreement. Since then, it's been blocking. Nothing's going on. Study and then nothing! Encryptions, probably, but we're waiting. The Energy Pact has been prepared by two RM ministers in the regions, an Open Vld minister and a cdH minister in Brussels, but there is indeed something to be done. We've got to hurry! We have to get out of nuclear power in accordance with the 2003 law, and that is for 2025. You got rid of the things that were presented in 2014. Prime Minister, I do not hear your denial about the construction of a new nuclear power plant. You didn't mention this file. Don't deny it! It is therefore indeed that there is a possible scenario for a new nuclear power plant. Is this the hidden agenda of the majority? I didn't get an answer. J'y reviendrai!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u45	Prime Minister, your answer was very disappointing. To be honest, I expected you to say that you would go in full for this Energy Pact. This Energy Pact has been decided by four other ministers, Prime Minister. In fact, you say here that you don't believe them, because you want to have some additional studies. Prime Minister, these studies are currently available. The various bodies and ministers have confirmed this. Again, you're admitting to the N-VA again. So far, but I would have expected you to say: we are going for that nuclear trip in 2025. I have to decide now that you're only going for it a little bit. As far as affordability is concerned, Prime Minister, it is quite cynical that your government, which has increased VAT on electricity bills, is suddenly saying that this has to be calculated first because otherwise our families will pay too much. You have made sure that families and small SMEs pay too much for electricity today. You have done so and no one else has done so, so shut up about it! In terms of energy supply reliability, Prime Minister: listen to your energy minister! Those studies are here. Very disappointing, Prime Minister, the way you deal with this Energy Pact and with your own Minister for Energy. Very disappointing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u46	Prime Minister, I believe that it is absolutely right that you continue on a route that has been calculated, so that we know what and where. I hear a lot of oppositions on the left. It is asked not to calculate what all this will cost and not to say what people will have to pay extra. In the course of this legislative period, Green has asked questions about the further reduction of subsidies for solar panels. According to them, this is predatory construction, but that money is all passed on in the invoice. Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken huge steps forward in this legislative period in terms of supporting offshore projects. These are all the means we get out of the invoice, making sure that it can be done in an affordable way. Despite all the turns of the opposition, no one could tell me where the extra costs would be. The hundreds of millions of euros in additional costs have been squirmed. No one wants to say who's going to get that invoice. So let's calculate this first. No blank cheque, no solar panels story, but forward with our energy future. I support you in that, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u47	Mr President, Prime Minister, security of supply, the fact that citizens can pay for their energy, these arguments have been raised for ten or fifteen years in Belgium in order to avoid the closure of nuclear power plants. These are exactly the same ideological arguments that are repeated tirelessly. I asked you a very clear question: is the government considering the construction of a new nuclear power plant? "All possibilities are under study," you replied. You didn't deny that information. Not only do you not rely on the cost of a possible closure, but you are even considering the construction of a new nuclear power plant. You are completely bend in front of the blackmail of the N-VA, which itself bent completely in front of that of Engie Electrabel, who has everything to say in this country in terms of energy policy! Prime Minister, you have been elected to defend the citizens, to defend our interests and not the 400 million annuals that Electrabel holds by selling us his very expensive electricity. You are here to guarantee accessible electricity, to guarantee an ecological policy and not to bend, here today, against the lobby of finance and nationalism!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I have applied the Rules of Procedure mildly so far. From now on, we shall return to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u49	I will spare my words and use them as efficiently as possible, Mr President. Minister, the employment figures in our country are good. This is evident recently from various messages we have received. In numbers there have never been so many Belgians at work, namely 4.7 million. 187 000 jobs have been created since the start of this government. The unemployment rate has fallen enormously and is at the lowest level in 22 years. This is partly due to the good international economic situation, but to a large extent also to the rewarding efforts of this government. Despite what we were allowed to hear here at the beginning of the legislative term, it is indeed largely about permanent jobs, either full-time or four-fifths, which happens very often. On top of that, we have created a number of statutes that allow people, if they want to, to earn something effectively, not because of the bride, but simply because they want to do so. We see a great success with the flexi-jobs, with people who, for example, can earn something extra in the catering industry. We have also done a great deal for the self-employed. We have given them economic incentives. Their social contributions have fallen, as have the patronial contributions to the employee's wage. The first recruitment without social contributions is known as the so-called golden worker. It all helps. More people start an independent activity. In this way, this week we will see just the positive result in the last quarter of the budget. In this way, the budget will be in order. There is additional activity, so there are also additional revenues. Minister, this week an emergency call came from the business community. They will no longer find sufficient staff to fill all vacancies. Of course, this is largely a regional issue, because it is about matching supply and demand in the labour market. It is the responsibility of the regional ministers for work to work on this, but we can also do business at the federal level. I will mention a number of them. The N-VA made two proposals yesterday which I can support in principle, but there is more to it than that. In the coalition agreement, for example, I see 'wage and seniority'. We must make it easier for older people to find their way to the labour market. Interregionally, you can play a role in bringing together ministers and making agreements. Minister, how do you respond to the call from the business community? What plans do you have?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u50	Mr Lachaert, first of all, at the beginning of this legislature jobs were creating the task. You yourself quoted the figures. I won't repeat it. It is also true that these are the result of an economic revival in Belgium and in the rest of Europe, but we have also taken difficult measures. I am thinking, for example, of the index jump or the tax shift. We have increased the age of STW or the bridge pension. We have reworded the availability. We have reworded the appropriate employment relationship. We have taken measures against companies that just wanted to leave older workers at home and pay them back. We have therefore taken a great deal of action. Where are we now? We now face a new challenge. The number of open vacancies has never been higher. That is a new positive element, in the sense that we are now getting the problem on our plate. You have rightly said that many powers and instruments to solve the problem are at the regional level. The activation of the unemployed, the activation of the bridge pensioners and many other elements are at the VDAB and at the regional level. I assume that the regional level will do everything in its power to tackle the problem. Yesterday, I welcomed the initiatives taken by Mr Muyters and indicated that, in my capacity as Federal Minister, I will give the necessary support to these initiatives as far as possible and within my powers. I asked Voka to accept and look at the proposals it makes. I have asked the VBO and, moreover, the trade unions to send me their proposals so that we can look at them more closely here in Parliament if necessary. I must honestly admit that I am not in favour of proposals that have been formulated to reopen the debate on tackling unemployment over time and the abolition of the SWT bridge pension. These do not seem to me to be the right measures to give the activation a real boost and fill the 250 000 vacancies. I do not agree with these proposals. I hope that all Members will be prepared to tackle the problem, but not to reopen old discussions, which I know will lead to nothing, and in which we should therefore not put any effort into the coming weeks and months. Mr Lachaert, I am prepared, together with colleagues at the federal level, to help the regions wherever possible and to consider what we can do within our own powers. However, I am not prepared to do so with the proposals that you have just mentioned and which you may support in principle, but which I am convinced do not have a direct impact on the vacancies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u51	Mr President, Minister, we can only reach out to you. We are giving you the right to make the most of these elements of the coalition agreement, which is, after all, the basis of our cooperation, which has not yet been achieved today, in the near future. You can play your part and, together with the regional ministers, try to come up with some sort of pact in which we work together. But there are also a number of things in the coalition agreement that we can work out, for example with regard to older workers. I have also told you that we must really get rid of actions and legislation that stigmatize older people as if they were worn out and written off for the labour market. We must give this message a clear framework, including with the social partners, and make it clear that we must have every opportunity at that age. The mere linking of wages to seniority................................................................................................................................................................................................ We must go there to a multimodal system. We should really do something about it in the coming months. Then there is the limitation of unemployment benefits over time. I understand that this is a point of principle, why we should not be locked up in canals again. I see, however, that the Community service for the long-term unemployed is in the coalition agreement. In fact, I think that is a terrible word, and we should find a positive term for that. We must be able to involve people who are long-term in that system in a positive way, together with the regional ministers. Mr Minister, we are giving you an opportunity to work together on these elements of the coalition agreement, in view of the emergency call of business and not to stop that economic growth.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u52	Mr President, Minister, Pfizer has stopped investigating Alzheimer's disease. We heard that this morning, with a great deal of indignation, with a great deal of anger. One of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world stops researching a disease that affects two hundred thousand people in our country today. Hundreds of thousands of people in Europe are suffering from Alzheimer's disease today. The most shocking thing is the reason Pfizer gives for the discontinuation of the study, in particular that it does not pay enough. The shareholders don't like it anymore. For Pfizer shareholders, it is no longer possible to continue research on Alzheimer! That's cynical capitalism. The market, the economy should not be able to decide for whom medicines are made. Madam Secretary, what are the ministers going to do about this scandalous decision? Will we just watch the multinationals decide who can get medicines? The Free Market – Adam Smith's invisible hand, Liberal colleagues! – Will he decide who will receive medicines, when they will be received and what research will be conducted? Is the government going to let it or is it going to intervene? That people don't come to say Pfizer doesn't have any money. In 2016, Pfizer recorded $52.6 billion in turnover of which 12.3 billion went to shareholders outside the company. 12.3 billion shares. Pfizer now says it doesn't have any money to invest. Madam Secretary, the question is, what are you going to do? Are you just going to let the market do it or are you going to intervene to defend everyone's interests?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u53	Mr Hedebouw, I have taken note of Pfizer's decision to suspend their programmes for research into neurological diseases, in particular Alzheimer's disease. According to our information, this decision was taken because several research programmes failed during its development. The company will continue to invest in innovative therapies, including oncology and the treatment of orphan diseases. Moreover, although Pfizer is an important player, its decision does not mean the end of history or the abandonment of patients with Alzheimer's disease. In addition to Pfizer's intention to create a fund to support research in this area, other pharmaceutical companies are continuing their research agenda and studies are underway. Alzheimer's disease affects a large number of patients (more than 36 million people worldwide) and is expected to triple by 2050. The medical need and societal impact of the disease are therefore very important. Researchers from all over the world, both academic and private, have been trying for decades to understand the disease and identify its causes. Many therapeutic pathways have been explored. Unfortunately, no success has yet been achieved and the problem remains. The amounts invested so far in these investigations are, of course, large. These investments could only be continued through a strict partnership between the public sector and the private sector. I would also like to say that patients' associations are also very concerned. For example, the Alzheimer's League will invest in 12 grants in two weeks' time, for 12 researchers. The government is also doing what it can, but we cannot impose on a firm to continue an investigation if that investigation so far does not prove anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u54	Madam Minister, this is crazy! Indeed, you scientifically justify a decision that is based solely on money. For all disease research, it has always been difficult to find gateways to find ways of healing. All scientists know – and you're a doctor, so you don't have an excuse! It is not possible to decide whether or not to continue research based solely on the short-term cost-benefit ratio. By following the same reasoning, no cures for cancer would have been found, nor would vaccines have been found, because it did not yield in the short term. Today, however, a multinational with money – because it is not even in financial difficulty! – chooses to stop searching. Minister, two years ago, the KCE (Federal Centre of Expertise) provided you with a report indicating the existence of this problem. In his view, it was no longer possible to continue to depend on these multinationals in terms of the direction of the funds. He also mentioned four scenarios that you have properly ignored. Thus, in order to combat such serious diseases, it is important that the authorities take their responsibilities. We cannot abandon such serious areas to the market. I believe, Madam Minister, that every opportunity must be explored in order to pursue fundamental and applied research. We must listen to the views of all these scientists who believe that the market must be stopped in such essential sectors, because the public good must take precedence over the interests of a multinational which has 50 billion profits.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u55	Madam Minister, the number of self-employed workers is on the rise, as Mr Lachaert has just pointed out. We are very pleased with that. The government has also taken a lot of support measures, such as reductions in charges, which also benefit the self-employed. They're paying off, and luckily so. For a number of years, however, we have unfortunately noticed that the number of long-term disabled self-employed workers is also rising rapidly. This increase is not proportionate to the increasing number of self-employed workers. Annually, there is a structural increase of 4% in the number of long-term disabled self-employed workers. These are self-employed people who are sick for more than six months. They, too, deserve our attention, not just those who are doing well. Those who are ill also deserve our attention and support. There has been a long-standing call for reintegration paths for the self-employed, an idea that you are fond of. In the past, you replied that you would like to look at it. However, we are not there yet. It hasn't started yet. Re-integration paths for employees have already started, but not yet for the self-employed. I don't think we should put that on the long track anymore. We need to work on that now, if we don't want to abandon them. The social status of self-employed workers does not allow for a prevention policy. I tabled a motion for a resolution here last year to introduce into the social status of self-employed persons a prevention policy in the context of incapacity for work. I am thinking, for example, of guidance when asked for it, and of a health budget when asked for it, in order to avoid long-term incapacity for work. Madam Minister, how are the reintegration paths for long-term disabled self-employed people? They, too, deserve guidance to get back out of the valley and hopefully, if necessary gradually, start their business again. Will you, together with Minister Ducarme, who is also competent in this area, extend the scheme for the incapacity of self-employed persons to include a preventive chapter?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u56	Mrs Smaers, reintegration is an important priority of my policy. We are currently rolling out the routes for the workers and the unemployed. There is also the review of the reform by the National Labour Council in October. On the basis of the conclusions of the National Labour Council, we can determine the best method of rolling out the pathways for the self-employed. It would not be wise to ignore these valuable conclusions and in the meantime launch new legislation. We want answers to the questions of what is the best approach and what can be better done in existing regulations. Self-employed people are in a special situation. They do not have a prevention service that can act as a guide to reintegration. However, we have not been idle. Since 1 January, the career period has been halved, making it easier for them to receive benefits. There is also the system of work resumption during illness. This was reformed in 2015. This is very well used. A self-employed person with an injury can also partly return to work as an employee or self-employed person. He will retain his allowance at that time. If we look at the figures, we find that only in 2015 did the number of part-time jobs resumes in self-employed persons increase by 25% compared to the previous year. We are working on new measures. Soon Mr Ducarme and I will be meeting with the self-employed organisations UNIZO and UCM. You can count on us to continue working on a solid and quality framework for reintegration pathways for the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u57	Madam Minister, the measure in the Summer Agreement to halve the career period also for the self-employed is indeed a good thing. Moreover, it is not always about the benefit. On the contrary, it is often about support and quick and good guidance to be able to record the work again. Priority should therefore be given to the reintegration pathways, to support the reintegration of work after a long illness. Attention should also be paid to a preventive policy on mental illness, which is unfortunately also affecting the self-employed. Re-integration projects and preventive policies are needed to improve social status.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u58	Mr President, Minister, yesterday you confirmed the partial privatisation of Belfius for this summer at the latest. Now that it is doing well, this bank, which the public authorities had to save from the shipwreck by billions, is going to be privatized. Now that Belfius is reworked, that it can play a central role in fuelling and supporting the real economy, you put it on the stock market, in the hands of financial investors who will seek the highest and fastest possible private profitability rather than the general interest. It is a largely ideological and dangerous choice. You do not understand the potential offered by a public bank, and that is a fundamental difference between us! Minister, with a public bank, we can encourage support for the real economy, for local authorities - you know that! - investments of general interest in the long term. I am also thinking of support for households, particularly through housing credits. Have you forgotten that the financial crisis of 2008 was caused by the search for maximum profit. So what is your real motivation? How will you avoid the weakening of this important financial actor? Secondly, yesterday you not only confirmed privatisation, but you also said that it would be accompanied by a solution for ARCO's co-operators. I think your partner has to say, "Finally!" You mentioned it so much in all the budget conclaves. In this respect, I want to submit to you a logic, a broader, more coherent solution: why not also consider, at the same time, the reimbursement of the communes that had refinanced the communal holding? Local authorities are in the public interest, and it would therefore be equally important to care about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u59	Mr President, Mr Daerden, with regard to the privatisation of Belfius, the aim is to introduce up to 49% of its capital on the stock exchange, so that the bank remains deeply rooted in Belgium and continues to play its historic role, in particular with regard to local authorities. This operation is therefore certainly not a simple financial operation, but must support the future development of the bank, while respecting the interests of the staff and the financing needs in the real economy. The Royal ARCO Guarantee Orders were taken at the time to protect individuals and not institutional investors in ARCO or local governments. No expectation has therefore been created in the head of local administrations as regards the protection, via a State guarantee, of the amounts invested by them in Belfius. It is these guarantees granted to individuals that have been challenged by the European Commission and described by it as illegal state aid. Compensation in the context of a possible solution for ARCO co-operators is only intended to relieve the State of its probable responsibilities because of the expectations it had generated with the co-operators. In this context, attention should be paid to the possible consequences of pending legal procedures. It is also crucial, in this context, that all the parties concerned provide a substantial financial contribution more than symbolic in order to reach a possible solution and to obtain the green light of the European Commission in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u60	Minister, you're worrying me! I thought it was up to 25%, but I hear you talking about 49%! It's even worse than I thought. On the other hand, you do not give any economic justification for this opening up of capital, for this privatisation. Indeed, Belfius works well and generates important dividends for the public authorities and, in particular, for the federal budget. So your measure goes against the point. You are going to sacrifice Belfius, on the one hand for ideological reasons and, on the other hand, for budgetary reasons in the very short term. All this to have an amount related to the sale of this percentage of Belfius in order to fill a budget hole that you have dug since the beginning of the legislature. It is a short-term vision, to the detriment of the state budget and therefore of the general interest. In addition, you are sweeping away this proposal to go further than the ARCO aspect, to which you have committed yourself, and to meet the interests of the local authorities, that is, the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u61	Mr President, Minister, this upsetting news could let pass an information that is still interesting and that the press revealed last week: the regularization of 590 million black money in 2017. It's three times more than in 2016. 842 files were introduced in 2017, including 391 files in December, i.e. more in December than in 2016. It is also known that, since 1 January, the rate and fines have increased, which indicates an increase in tax revenues. It is also known that the OECD Common Reporting Standard under the BEPS is applicable, allowing Belgium to know where Belgians have assets in 53 countries. It can therefore be said that the fight against tax evasion and evasion is in full swing both internationally and in Belgium. Minister, I would like to know what you think of the figures as long as you confirm them. Moreover, do you already have prospects for 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u62	Mr Piedboeuf, I can confirm the figures you mentioned in your speech, whether they are the number of returns or the amounts (multiplies by two for the returns and by three for the amounts). Indeed, there was an impressive rush in September with no less than 391 cases worth 305 million euros. At present, we are still unaware of the number of cases that the Advance Rulings Service was able to process in the last days of 2017. It is therefore possible that some of the cases will be processed and acquitted in January 2018. Three reasons justify this impressive increase: higher fines than in previous years. And the fact that they are still increasing over time is an additional incentive to act. Secondly, I will mention the strengthening of data exchange at the international level. Thirdly, contrary to what existed in the past, prescribed capital is now also taxed, which is very important. In order to ensure that the regularization procedure remains a success, it is important that prosecutors pursue an active policy of prosecuting old capital, which poses a very important potential criminal problem. It should also be noted that Switzerland is beginning to exchange data in 2018, which, in my view, should give a new impetus to regularisation. So we managed to get people with black money to make a statement. Thanks to these revenues, we can reduce taxes. The more people who pay their taxes properly, the more we are able to reduce taxes for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u63	Minister, my group and the whole government are campaigning for better tax justice. Therefore, continuing to fight against tax evasion is a good policy. We encourage you to pursue it to continue to achieve results.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u64	End of oral questions. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that at the beginning of the sitting we agreed to proceed to the vote on the motions. I propose that we de facto suspend two or three minutes so that we can call and call for the vote. We will therefore take 55 again at 16. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u65	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u66	These interviews were held at the public meeting of the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration of 22 December 2017. These inquiries were developed in a public meeting of the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service on 22 December 2017. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 245/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Benoit Hellings and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet; - a motion of censure against the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for administrative simplification, was tabled by Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Olivier Maingain; - a simple motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Smeyers. Three motions were tabled (MOT No. 245/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings and Jean-Marc Nollet; - a motion of distrust of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for administrative simplification, was tabled by Julie Fernandez Fernandez and MM. Georges Dallemagne and Olivier Maingain; - a simple motion was tabled by Ms. Sarah Smeyers. Colleagues, on Mrs Smeyers' motion an amendment has also been tabled (245/2), of which I am giving you a reading. You know the text of a simple motion. Those who have tabled the motion say that they have "heard the Minister's reply and the Secretary of State." The following shall be added: "As well as the Prime Minister's answers to the questions concerning the problem of the repatriation of Sudanese and the statement of the measures that are being implemented by the government with regard to its migration policy." The amendment was introduced by Mr. De Roover, Mr. Clarinval, Mr. Dewael and Mr. Verherstraeten, and also Ms. Smeyers, who introduced the simple motion. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. I shall first speak on the amendment and then on the motion. I can imagine that there are interventions on this point before I ask if there are explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u67	Mr. Chairman, I have some experience, but more experienced colleagues than I do point out that it is unusual to amend a simple motion. I have not experienced such an example. I want to be sure that as president you are not making a mistake to save the majority. On the other hand, be aware that you will no longer be able to refuse us any form of amendment on simple motions in the future. It would not be acceptable for the precedent that you are creating today, to save the face of the majority and that it is not only the N-VA that can dictate its law – that is the argument used – to be rejected when other pure and simple motions come and we wish to amend them. I will pay close attention to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u68	If I may, Mr Nollet, I will reply in Dutch, because I can use the most precise words. If there are any more speeches, I'd like to hear them. Mr Dallemagne, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u69	Mr President, before I speak on the substance, I would like to say that this is indeed a form of pirouette. There was a pure and simple motion tabled by the N-VA alone. I remember the very bad mood at the time of both the CD&V by the voice of Ms. Lanjri and the Open Vld. Today, in an attempt to close the ban, to bring the majority together, an unprecedented amendment is being introduced. I would like to see that through this political pirouette, we are not hurting the Rules of the House. This is something that is unprecedented and is, above all, likely to re-consolidate the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u70	Are there any speakers on this specific point?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u71	Mr President, to answer Mr Nollet very clearly, I would like to draw his attention to the fact that the simple motion was signed by Mrs Smeyers, as well as the amendment. If a simple motion were to be signed, it would therefore be appropriate in future for the original signatory to also be present on the amendment. (...): It's not Sudan here!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u72	Mr. President, let's not turn around the pot. It is an artifice which, of course, aims to deprive Parliament once again of the real debate. Does Mr. Franken have a place in the government or not? Everyone in this House should take their responsibilities. It is indeed a way of evacuating the debate. That's the problem! For the rest, Mr President, we would like you to confirm the validity of what is being done under the Rules of Procedure. It goes without saying that the commitment you are going to make is an important commitment and that, whatever happens, it will be necessary to reassess the validity of what is being done here in the Conference of Presidents. Let's be clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u73	Are there any interventions on this procedural issue? We shall then proceed to explanations of vote on the substance. Mr Van Hees, you have the floor on the point of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u74	Mr President, I would like to understand what play we play in.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u75	I'll explain it to you, Mr. Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u76	No, wait! I hear Mr. Clarinval drafting the Rules in real time. In his view, a simple motion could thus be amended, but provided that its author was among the signatories. Is this a new rule in the Rules of the House? I find this a little problematic. Indeed, if it is possible to amend the motion outright, then I also intend to do so. I would therefore like you to give us a short time to be able to prepare an amendment to this simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u77	Mr Van Hees, ladies and gentlemen, I will give you three points of answer. Firstly, what Mr Clarinval said was merely a repetition of what was in the Rules of Procedure: only the proposer of a motion could introduce an amendment. Hence the importance of the fact that Mrs Smeyers also signed the amendment. Point two, what's happening now is unusual, I admit. It is in itself a consequence of the factuality. In the meantime, we cannot pretend that no statements would have been made today by the Prime Minister on the same subject, which has been interrupted before the holiday. Moreover, this was done after extensive questions from colleagues. The third point, which is very important, is that nothing is changed in the substance of the motion. So we do not change the substance of an ordinary motion, in particular to the order of the day. So, in technical terms, what I am saying is actually declaring the amendment admissible. I do so, of course, after advice from the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u78	Mr President, thank you for the explanation, although I still have a question. You say that nothing changes to the substance of the motion as it was originally tabled, but why did the amendment have to be added?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u79	That is, of course, a matter for the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u80	I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u81	I have explained to you, as Mr Clarinval did, that this is a result of the facts. Before the recess there was an interview on a subject and questions were asked again today. Hence the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u82	Mr President, I hear your explanations very well and thank you for them. It is true that, according to the Rules, a motion can be amended and cannot be touched on in substance. This does not, moreover, give rise to debate. However, I would like to know your views on the reading of Article 140(4). He pointed out that, in the motions referred to in rule 133 - in this case, it is indeed a case of a simple motion and a motion of distrust - "a motion may be amended by one or more signatories until the time of the vote in plenary." Is it one or more signatories to the motion of departure or any other signatory to the House? I think it should be read by saying that it is the signatory to the motion who is the depositary of the motion and who amends it. Can it be another member of the House who seizes and amends the text? I think that's the real question to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u83	Are there any other interventions on the same point?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u84	Mr President, I think Mr Brotcorn's interpretation is quite obvious. It is indeed indicated that a motion may be amended by one or more of its signatories. There can therefore be no new signatories to the amendment, the article seems very clear to me. Excuse me, but this amendment with new signatories who did not sign the original motion is not regulatory!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u85	Mr President, I believe that the interpretation given by Mr Brotcorne is the only conceivable interpretation given the wording of the text. If another formula were to be used, i.e., that any Member of Parliament can amend a motion that has been tabled, it was simply necessary to say: "a motion may be amended until the time of the vote in plenary." If it has been said that it is amended by one or more signatories, it is obviously the signatories of the motion in question. If there was only one signatory at the outset, he was the only one who could amend the text of the motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u86	Mr President, I have just read the amendment; it adds elements. It seems to me that we are no longer on a simple motion, then, but on a reasoned motion. If it is a reasoned motion, it no longer has priority on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. If you agree to accept the amendment, this motion comes into the succession and it will be voted on after the others. It is no longer a simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I can only repeat, first of all, that the ratio legis requires that the author of a motion tabled should be with the amendments, because only he or she can amend that motion, and that others can agree with it, that is no problem. Secondly, there is no other kind of motion here; it is still the ordinary motion, which aims to proceed to the order of the day. That's the ratio legis behind it. Hence the declaration of admissibility of the motion itself. I propose that we proceed with the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u88	Mr President, earlier, I asked you what article allowed you to say that. You cited Article 140(4). I read Article 140(4), and I can't find what you're saying. That's not it. It is clear that only the signatories of the motion can sign the amendment. Tell us where you are saying that non-signatories of the motion can sign the amendment. I want to see black on white where it's written in the rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u89	Mr President, you will recall what happened in December: at some point there was a clear divergence of views between you in particular and a number of opposition groups as to the scope of the Rules of Procedure. I have the impression that we are in the same situation, with obvious differences in interpretation of the scope of certain provisions of the Rules. In view of the fact that there have been accusations in writing in the head of a number of opposition groups, in particular ours, that our institution was not respected either by the Presidency or by a number of groups of the majority or by certain members of the government, I do not see us continuing under these conditions, Mr President. That is why I am asking for a suspension, to convene a Conference of Presidents to clarify the scope of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u90	Mr. Chair, what is happening is the logical continuation of how the government is unable to manage its method of work, its communication and the substance that goes with it. Can I, before we have the Conference of Presidents, know what the last three precedents are where a pure and simple motion was amended at the meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u91	Mr Nollet, I suggest that we have that discussion at the Conference of Presidents later. After all, that's what it's for. I therefore propose that we suspend the sitting now in order to convene the Conference of Presidents. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u92	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, on the procedural issues that were raised before the suspension, I have two points. First, there are precedents for amending a simple motion. The services of the Chamber will search and provide you with the documents as soon as possible. Secondly – and this is in response to Mr Brotcorn's remark – the content of the amendment that I have read to you does not change. However, this amendment is now only signed by Mrs Smeyers. I think we were able to find an agreement in the Conference of Presidents in order to live with it. That leads us to vote first on the amendment and then on the ordinary motion. Of course, there is a possibility of explanation of vote, which is theoretically two minutes per member. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u93	Mr President, it will not have escaped the great world that the RTBF has just given the floor to a young Sudanese sent home after crossing the path of the Sudanese identification mission. This testimony confirms our fears and reports persecution. Prime Minister, are you still going, as you did earlier, to dare to talk to us about caricatures, excessive talk? I hope, in any case, that from now on, and despite Antwerp's instructions, you will ask for political responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting of the Committee on the Interior on 22 December was a serious one. Before the parliamentarians, Mr. Francken admitted that he had knowingly withheld information about his deportation policy, which he should have communicated to the Prime Minister. Members, some of whom belong to the majority – I welcome Mrs Lanjri's courage here – have pointed out that this is indeed a lie. In itself, the history of this government shows that this is a reason enough for a minister to be forced to resign. Ms. Galant hid information in parliament: she had to resign. If anyone else had lied, and had made the Prime Minister lie to parliament and the Belgians, he should have resigned. Anyone, except Mr. Franken, who flatters the electorate of the far right of Flanders. Undoubtedly, the majority hoped that the end-of-year leave and a committee of the interior called in hastily would put an end to this Franken case. No, I don't. During the holidays, as if this were not enough, overwhelming statements continued. Suspension of repatriations to Sudan? Lie. Accompaniment of the Sudanese by a member of the Office of Foreigners during the identification mission? Lie. Assistance by the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees in Repatriation? Lie again, and I'll pass it. When we vote on this motion, it is to your dignity, ladies and gentlemen, and to your conscience that I call for it. Not to vote on this motion is to legitimize Mr Franken's politics, attitude, communication and cynicism. That is to say yes to the idea of continuing in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, our group has also tabled and signed this motion of distrust of your Secretary of State. We ask you to call him to step aside. Indeed, he has lied many times, for many months on this issue. He told us in April that he would never discuss with the Omar al-Bashir regime. Yet he did. He told us that these people were accompanied and received by IOM and UNHCR; that was not true. He told you, Prime Minister – you repeated it in plenary on December 21st – that no repatriation was scheduled; it was once again a lie. I think it is your dignity and legitimacy that are being seriously undermined today. You need to keep your authority over this government. In the press of the north of the country, there are cartoons that represent you in puppetry in the hands of Bart De Wever. It has to stop. The Belgian people need it, as do your government, and even the opposition, to carry out the policies that must be carried out. Today, you are no longer in a position to carry out these policies because we no longer know who really runs the country, who runs your government. Once again, it is your legitimacy, your authority, so that there is no more doubt about it. On the other hand, freedom has been seriously taken with the truth. You know that it is a terrible nuisance in the public debate today to take liberties with the truth. You know it's exactly the same as some social networks, some populists, some officials in and out of the country. We cannot accept that within the government we can take liberties with the truth. The quality of public debate and the quality of public policies in that country depend on it. That's why we tabled this distrust motion asking you to remove your Secretary of State from the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u95	Prime Minister, I will address you. You will not have escaped that our group has not tabled a motion of distrust, but a motion of recommendation, which is addressed to you – and that is still the case today. We consider that, in any case, this is not the first time that we have approached the case of the Secretary of State – and this will not be the last time, unfortunately. There's no way out. On the other hand, as far as you are concerned and which involves the country you are running, the month we have just lived is one of the darkest in terms of the functioning of our democratic system. I'll explain. In a month we have passed from lies to contempt, and from contempt to humiliation. As my colleagues have reiterated the lies, I am not going to list them again. We saw a secretary of state, even if it was a Friday night, come to committee to assume that he had lied and to justify this lie by arguing that it was more important for him to maintain the course of his communication than to tell the truth. We have not heard any voices other than that of Mrs Lanjri to question, astonish and question. Of course, today we have had an example, since Mr Dewael did. But to see that evening that the majority – apart from Mrs Lanjri – was silent, it seemed unacceptable to us. That's why we wanted to address you. That's what lies are all about. Since then, we have witnessed contempt, since the fact that the Secretary of State publicly allowed himself to consider some of the remarks made by the head of government to be absurd has been updated. Prime Minister, do you know a single country in Europe where a member of the government could afford to deal with the absurdity of his Prime Minister and then stay in place? Would your friends Bettel in Luxembourg and Macron in France accept it for a moment? No, of course not. But, and this is even more serious, we then witnessed the sequence of humiliation. Prime Minister, like me, you heard Mr. De Wever – who has just joined us – declare that, regardless of the results of the investigation to which you firmly cling, Theo Francken would not resign. Anyway, whatever they are, the N-VA doesn't care! This humiliation, I hoped, would bring to you a much more important clarification than what we had today and which is a simple call to nuance! I think, Prime Minister, that you are making a mistake by not going any further on the consequences of this humiliation!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u96	Prime Minister, I agree with what Mr Nollet said. What we have seen over the past month is indeed a sad spectacle. We have talked about human rights. We did not talk about a tax increase or a tax reduction; we talked about human rights! We have told you before: if you had had the caution you want to build in by means of an investigation before you sent those Sudanese back, we would not have had this debate. The way in which the debate has been conducted is even worse. Members of the majority said sister, members of the opposition said so. Especially with the behaviour of members of the majority I say:I'm very sorry, but I really don't understand. The last Friday before Christmas there was a committee meeting where the Secretary of State indeed came to say: I lied, I did not tell the truth. That's what he literally said: I thought it was important to keep that communication line in order not to have a suction effect. Prime Minister, I know that you think honesty is important in this House. I know that. With Minister Galant there was a suspicion that she had not told the complete truth. She is no longer in the hemisphere. I know you appreciate loyalty and honesty. If we allow ourselves to be lied to in this House, we can better abolish Parliament. For then we are abolishing democracy! I'm curious. I listened very carefully today to the majority of my colleagues, especially the colleagues from CD&V and Open Vld. This debate is not over after the vote on the motion, Prime Minister. The most important thing remains: what will happen when the investigation is completed? After all the fine words we have heard today about how important human rights are for the majority, shall we also be able to see the act of speech? Our group regrets that we are not getting any guarantees today. But the debate does not end here!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, on the substance, the government adopts the same position as Theo Francken because, for the government, political imperatives take precedence over a policy of respect for human rights. For the government, one can collaborate with a dictatorship, one can send people back even if there is a risk that they will be tortured, one may not respect article 3 of the Convention on Human Rights when this article is clear – like rule 140 of the Rules of the House. This Article 3 is clear and cannot be interpreted in a way that is appropriate to each other. In substance, the policy remains the same. But the Secretary of State has gone even further! Unfortunately, it is possible to go even further! He humiliated the Prime Minister, but we're used to it. Besides, he lied and we demonstrated it earlier. Besides lying, he deliberately stirred up hatred, division. I would even say that he has exploited politically the fact that people have been sent back to a dictatorship, where they risk being tortured. All this means that Secretary of State Theo Francken no longer has his place in this government. We will not be able to vote on the motions before us, since a simple motion, although amended, will take precedence. It is clear that we will vote against this simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u98	Prime Minister, we believe that you are not going far enough in the management of migration policy because the figures say that you are doing less than the previous government. In the Sudanese case, I find that the opposition and the press are trying you badly, and that is why I will vote for the simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u99	We shall now proceed to the vote on Mrs Smeyers' amendment to the simple motion. You are aware of the text. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u100	Yes 79 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total The amendment has been adopted. The amendment was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u101	We shall now vote on the simple motion, as amended. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u102	Yes 78 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total The simple motion, as amended, has been adopted. Consequently, the motion of recommendation and the motion of censure lapse. The simple motion, as amended, was adopted. Therefore, the motion of recommendation and the motion of distrust are lapsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u103	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2357: Wouter Raskin, Inez De Coninck Jef Van den Bergh, Roel Deseyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u104	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u105	Mr President, as I drafted this report, I know that it is excellent. I would therefore like to refer to this excellent written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can support this proposal. The Socialist Group will point out, however, that the majority has exempted two of the three largest public companies, Proximus and bpost, from this audit obligation by the Court of Auditors. My question is quite simple: why would the principle of transparency apply to SNCB subsidiaries and not to others? I did not have an answer in committee. For my group, I ask the question again, hoping to have an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the choice has been made to limit the legislative proposal to the subsidiaries in which the joint authorities have a control rate of more than 50%. As already mentioned, it does not apply to other public companies such as bpost and Proximus. It therefore applies only to the two railway undertakings listed in the 1991 Act. The other public companies outside the scope of the 1991 Law are also not taken into account by this bill. You're right about that. The choice of the limited scope is based on the fact that the repeated irregularities were found precisely in the subsidiaries of the railway companies SNCB and Infrabel. It is therefore logical that we should intervene where the problem arises. We do not know today about similar problems in other public enterprises. We are therefore restricting ourselves to the place where the problem arises. Secondly, we must be aware that the legislative proposal now before us is not a matter for the cat in terms of the obligations imposed on these companies. I am thinking of the internal control bodies and the intervention that the Court of Auditors can do. We believe that it is unwise to impose these obligations on listed companies operating in a liberalised market. It cannot be the intention that we should put these companies at a competitive disadvantage with this legislation. The competing companies would then not have to comply with these obligations and with the same control requirements. These are the two arguments on which we have based ourselves to limit the legislative proposal before us today to rail companies and their subsidiaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u108	Mr President, I thank our colleague for his answer, which is identical to that given in the Commission. I have two points to make. First, Mr. Raskin, let us not wait for a problem to arise in order to exercise control, at the risk of still having afternoons like this. I say it with dignity and firmness. Secondly, I have the hope, that I will put it together with my group, that you will return to your position as you did with regard to the postal law because, in the end, we can realize that we are right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, we can, of course, differ from one another in how things are handled. I take note of your comment, which you have already made in committee. I do not know today, like many other Members of this House who I am in contact with, any abuses that might arise in the case of subsidiaries of other public companies. If that is the case, then I suggest that we list these companies and tell them what is happening and where. If there are other companies as we have been able to identify with the subsidiaries of SNCB and of Infrabel, then we must consider whether an additional legislative initiative is necessary. Together with my group, I am of the opinion that we should not take initiatives where there are no problems today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u110	Mr President, I will make one last intervention. We may not agree, Mr Raskin, but I would not like to see any misunderstanding. I'm not saying there are shortcomings in these subsidiaries. I'm saying we don't have to wait until there's something to look into.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u111	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u112	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2357/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2357/5) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u113	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u114	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u115	Mr President, I refer to the more than brilliant report of almost 50 pages.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u116	Mr President, I also refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u117	Mr Van der Donkt also refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u118	Mr President, first of all, a small reminder for those who were unable to participate in the committee's work. We were pleased that, for this employment project, the minister responsible for employment was present. I say this, because we were surprised to see on that day that, for another project, the one concerning the famous 6 000 euros of black money laundering but without worker protection and in full competition with certain sectors denounced by the middle class sector, the minister has fled for not having to face the flood of criticism. I stress that there will be a second reading here and I call on the minister to be present to face the unanimous criticisms of the social partners and of several groups of both the majority and the opposition. To get to the project that is before us today - we must not be Manichean - some elements prove to be positive and others not. I will mention a few things that we think are particularly positive. For example, the application of collective labour agreements to the staff of embassies and diplomatic posts seems to us appropriate. It is known that some workers in this sector were subjected to unacceptably unacceptable working conditions. On the other hand, the measures to counter social dumping, namely the possibility of resorting to economic unemployment when work is outsourced, seem to us to be really good policy. Apart from these positive measures, unfortunately, there are some that we cannot accept. The majority were very uncomfortable with regard to the situation of workers, subject to a change of joint committee. The Minister negotiates with the social partners. A general agreement seems entirely logical, stating that in the event of negotiations to change the Joint Committee, workers remain protected in the former Joint Committee as long as an agreement has not been reached. That makes sense. And then all of a sudden, while all the social partners agree, the minister introduces a new element: a guideline. The new rules must be concluded by 1 January 2023. So we asked him what would happen if we didn't reach a conclusion. What is the protection of workers? What are they going to be in? No answer! The only answer was this: will all this be assessed on January 1, 2021? That makes absolutely no sense. We are resubmitting an amendment so that, at least for the sake of worker protection, we can say that this famous date of 2023 can be changed by a royal decree. The second point which we believe is important to stress here is the question of discrimination in hiring. It exists in our country and it is a terrible reality! In December we had the socio-economic monitoring presented by Unia and SPF Emploi. It's pretty clear. The employment rate for Belgian nationals is 73%. It does not reach 46 % for persons of nationality outside the European Union. Worse, there are a whole series of complaints that are filed with Unia. There were 5,000 cases last year, 5,000 cases in all areas; 1,900 cases were opened and only 2% were dealt with in court. I think we have to react. It is a matter of justice, social justice, respect for equal opportunities. And this frustration that arises from discrimination in hiring has very important consequences. As proof – and the chairman of the committee of inquiry "Attentats", Mr Patrick Dewael, will say as well as I do – in the committee "Attentats", all parties, the majority and the opposition, we have denounced this discrimination in hiring. We have called for strong arrangements to be made, particularly for situation tests, and for you to take steps to prevent these situations which, I said, cause frustration and sometimes lead to radicalisation with dramatic consequences. The Regions have asked themselves questions. I take the Brussels Region as an example. Since 2014, the Brussels Region has called on the federal government to do something, so unbearable is the situation. No answer! Finally, in a very large majority which exceeded the governmental majority and under the leadership of the Regional Minister for Employment, Mr Gosuin, regional anti-discrimination legislation was adopted, one of the strongest in Europe, at least, with situational tests and a series of penalties foreseen, including the end or even the recall of subsidies granted by the regional authority. The question was raised as to whether the regional authority had the authority to do so. Different constitutionalists have been heard and they have said yes, because we are within the framework of a competing jurisdiction. Regional legislation is moving forward. We're waiting for what's going to happen at the federal level. It was silence for a long time and then, Minister, you intervened. You said you still wanted to do something. You were right. The one who doesn't try anything is sure to lose. So you tried to convince your government partners. The problem is that you have won in terms of principles, namely that under this legislation you say yes to the situation tests but, unfortunately, as usual – and one imagines what the negotiation in Kern must have been, I suppose – you put so many conditions that, in the end, this principle will not be followed by any effects. It requires elements, data mining and data matching as well as the complaint and authorization, in particular, of the auditor of the work. In short, it is so framed and there are so many conditions, contrary to what has been decided at regional level, that it will not be followed by any effects. The final argument is that social inspectors will be able to move forward frankly on one side and will then be completely paralyzed at the federal level because of your conditions. I wanted to emphasize that, because you had an opportunity to seize. You had the conclusions of the "Attents" committee of inquiry. You are facing a dramatic situation in terms of discrimination in hiring. My group and I very much regret that you did not take the discussion in the government negotiations and that you have a principle but a concrete inapplicability on the ground. Therefore, we will abstain from this bill. There are positive elements but on this, you have shown a guilty weakness.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u119	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the past three years the Michel government has carried out many reforms in all areas but above all in terms of economics and employment. These measures, it is observed, are bearing fruit: 176,500 net jobs created since the beginning of the legislature and 309,000 jobs are expected to be created in the end of 2014 until the end of 2020. These are the National Bank's forecasts. Colleagues, I'm not saying that. These figures are, of course, encouraging and support us in our policy from the beginning. They are the result of the boost that our companies needed to get back on track and create jobs again. So here we are from the beginning of the year with the same determination, if not more, to continue these reforms. The bill that we are dealing with today is part of the continuity of the work that has been done. Many reforms and projects are proposed, and I will focus only on some of them. First, the adjustment of the Economic Unemployment Act. As you know, businesses that use economic unemployment must be subject to a very restrictive set of rules. Despite this, some of them outsource, while they have put their staff into economic unemployment, sometimes on opportunistic grounds. Therefore, in order to combat this form of dumping, it will now be prohibited to outsource if, at the same time, some or all of the staff benefit from economic unemployment. I am, of course, in favour of the measure to combat all forms of unfair competition. Secondly, there is also the issue of administrative simplification. I am thinking of the electronic signature of employment contracts, as is already the case in the interim sector. I am thinking of the possibility that companies will be given to replace staff with incapacity for work who gradually resume their benefits – which was allowed only in the event that the worker was in complete incapacity. I am thinking of the medical evaluation of temporary staff whose processing will now be simplified by the creation of a common database centrally managed by the prevention service, while guaranteeing the protection of workers' medical data by a healthcare professional, as foreseen by the majority amendment. Finally, I am thinking of the control medicine component, through which the follow-up of files and the handling of complaints will be carried out under the supervision of the Order of Physicians for greater efficiency. The third chapter, which deserves to be considered for a moment, concerns the Collective Labour Agreements Act 1968 and the Joint Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the government agreement states that the number of joint committees will be reduced and that sectoral consultation within the joint committees will be modernised. There are therefore two reforms here. On the one hand, the staff of embassies and international organizations, with the exception of those enjoying privileged status, will henceforth be subject to the Act of 5 December 1968. This will put an end to this grey area which has sometimes led to critical and inhuman situations from a social point of view for the worker. On the other hand, in the wake of the harmonization of the status of employee and worker, it had been decided to limit and harmonize the joint committees as much as possible. However, the reform provides that when employers and workers move from one joint committee to another, working and wage conditions are maintained. This was a request from the workers' representatives. However, this reform project has given rise to a certain fear, totally justified, among employers, who regret the lack of consultation and who are wondering who will bear the additional cost of harmonisation upwards but also of clarifying the legal situation. Therefore, in order to meet everyone's expectations and to enable social dialogue to play its part, it was decided to postpone the measure to 2023 and to carry out an assessment of the situation in 2021. Finally, I will address the chapter on the implementation of mystery shopping. To prevent this policy from being perceived as an attack on businesses, the government has provided several safeguards. Firstly, there must have been either a complaint or a suspicion of discrimination. Second, data mining and data matching techniques are used for analysis and evaluation. If the signals are red, the social inspector may use the method of mystery shopping, provided that he has requested it either from the King's prosecutor or from the labour auditor and has received permission to do so. If the use of this method is permitted, however, the inspector will have to be independent, credible and professional in his or her mission. The aim is therefore to see discrimination and not to provoke it. As such, in order to reinforce the objective criterion of the measure and to remove any potentially confusing elements, we have adopted an amendment amending the text to that effect. As the procedure has been marked, I can only subscribe to this methodology which will be applied on the ground. As you will understand, colleagues, this bill includes a series of necessary reforms. After receiving further explanations or clarifications, I can only support the text before you. My group and I will continue to take the action of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are very pleased with the draft law. I want to focus on one aspect, on chapter 9 about the mystery calls. After all, the mystery calls bring us one step closer to tackling discrimination in the labour market. It was also urgent to take action in this context. The figures from the Federal Public Service Employment show that the differences between Belgians and people with non-nationality are very large in terms of employment rates or unemployment rates. For example, we have a 27.3% efficacy gap in Belgium, which is well above the European average, which is 15.2%. That makes us one of the worst students in the European class. The objective is to reach a maximum of 16.5% by 2020, which we are no longer so far away from. We know that the figures are bad and that very often, but not always, discrimination plays a role in this. This is also evident, for example, from other studies, such as the research carried out by the three universities in cooperation with the King Baudouin Foundation on the unemployment of people of African origin living in our country. That study found that the unemployment rate for these people is four times higher than the Belgian average. A third of that group is unemployed, although 60%, which is a lot, has received higher education in our country. So this is not about newcomers or people who do not meet the qualities. It's about people with higher education, who they've been following in our country. A study by the KUL also shows that discrimination is often present in recruitment. When the number of candidates for a job vacancy is large enough, people with a different name have a half less chance of being invited to a job interview, even if they have similar qualifications. Samira will not be invited, while Ann or Sophie will be invited, although they can submit the same CV, have followed the same direction and have achieved the same results. There is therefore an urgent need for action to address the potential that exists here in our country. People with a migration background should be given a chance. It may be newcomers, but often it is also about people who are born and raised here. It is often even about grandchildren of people who have once migrated. The success of our economy will depend on whether we succeed in giving people with a migration background equal opportunities or giving them the opportunity to participate in our society. They're part of it. They have the same rights and responsibilities. It is therefore only logical that they should also be given the same opportunities and in no way discriminated against, not even in the labour market. Colleagues, the mystery calls that we are going to approve today with this draft law are not just about discrimination on the basis of origin or origin. It is also about discrimination in terms of age, gender or disability. We also want to tackle this discrimination. Many of us know the harrowing examples of 50-plussers who do not come to prison purely because of their age, while they meet all the quality requirements. That's very demotivating for those people. CD&V has long been in favour of introducing mysterycalls. I even remember that we made a plea for this in my first legislature in 2003. Also our minister, Kris Peeters, made a plea for the mystery calls a few years ago, but not to create a witch hunt. Therefore, sufficient guarantees were introduced in this draft law to do the mystery calls in an orderly manner. However, we need that stick behind the door, because we have also noticed in the hearings that the main problem is the burden of proof. It is precisely in order to strengthen this burden of proof that we should give the social inspection instruments to help with this. That is also what we proposed in our majority resolution, which was also, by the way, approved by Greens, for which thanks. In that majority resolution to tackle discrimination in the labour market, we really advocated a step-by-step approach. We've always said it's an en-en-story. We must focus on sensitisation and self-regulation from the sector, but there must also be targeted anonymous controls. The private sector was asked to develop its own tools to detect discrimination and then pass it on to the General Executive Board of Supervision of Social Laws. That resolution said that sectors will have two years to set up a system of self-regulation and awareness-raising. Unfortunately, the results turned out to be very thin. Only a few sectors have taken some initiatives, including the service cheque sector. Fedecom would have done that before. That is why it is a good thing that the Summer Agreement, on a proposal from Minister Peeters, finally decided to regulate these mystery calls so that we can deal with discrimination. There must be objective evidence that can be obtained through a complaint or a notification and then tests can be carried out in which the inspector does not have to disclose his identity. We are very pleased that we are now one step closer to tackling discrimination after repeated pressure, but at the same time I would like to stress that we must also follow this legislation very closely in practice. One of the most important things is that we must certainly check whether the current group of social inspectors is sufficient and capable of creating a credible practical context in which discriminatory practices can be revealed. For the time being, no other test subjects should be used in these practical tests, which we will make possible after the adoption of this bill. However, I am pleased that an amendment which was unanimously adopted in committee has enabled us to register that we will review this law one year after its entry into force and see if any adjustments are necessary. If abuse were to remain under the radar or if we found that the procedure needed to be amended, we could approve amendments in this House. As stated in the coalition agreement, we are in favour of a zero tolerance on discrimination. Minister, we are grateful that you have carried out your part of the majority resolution. I know that Minister None is implementing his part of the resolution at the moment. The review of anti-discrimination legislation has now been carried out, and it is now turning the recommendations resulting from it into legislation where necessary. Today, however, I would also like to ask the other ministers and the relevant Secretary of State to work on the recommendations contained in the resolution that fall within their competence. I am thinking, for example, of drawing up an inter-federal action plan against discrimination, a task for Mrs Demir, and of setting up a system of targeted checks at all public institutions, a task for the Minister of Civil Service. We cannot, of course, allow the government itself to set a good example. We ask the private sector not to discriminate and will carry out mystery calls if there is discrimination. Then it is only logical that the government itself should set an example. The public sector is the country's largest employer, with almost 70 000 federal government officials. If we add the special corps, the police, the army and the magistrate, we are even over 100 000 people. It is therefore logical that there should also be a system in the government to check whether people are given fair opportunities and that checks can be carried out on them. Checking whether there is discrimination should be possible not only with the FPS, but also with public institutions such as the RVA and companies financed by public funds, such as SNCB. This was also the case in the majority resolution and I hope that the other ministers will also implement their share of the resolution. That is also an urgent time, because hopefully there will be a year and a half until the elections. Every day articles appear in the newspaper stating that vacancies are not filled. In Flanders alone there were 250 000 vacancies last year, of which only 70% could be filled. If we want to continue to grow our economy, and if we want to continue to pay for the costs of ageing and social security, we must, of course, work with as many people as possible. Anyone who can work has to work. Moreover, we also know that work is of great importance, not only for the economy and to contribute to social security, but also for the self-development of people. It contributes to personal development, ensures social contacts and participation in society in all areas. Colleagues, I conclude. Discrimination is not only unacceptable, it is also illegal. By discrimination, we lose a great deal of talent, while we need all the talent in our labour market. I am therefore pleased that an important step is being taken today to put an end to discrimination. That is why we will, of course, approve the draft law. We are also very pleased with the chapter on mystery calls.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u121	Mr President, Minister, we have discussed this issue extensively in committee, but I would also like to express our reservations about the practical tests that we are going to vote on today. Previous speakers have all shown that discrimination has already been proven several times. There are many studies that confirm that. However, the time for studies is over, it is now time to take action. I would just like to quote a few figures from the socio-economic monitoring carried out by your FOD, in collaboration with Unia. This shows that 73 % of 20-64 year olds of Belgian origin are lucky enough to have a job, which is good, but that this percentage is only between 38% and 46% of the population whose origin is a Maghreb country, the rest of Africa, the Near East or a candidate EU Member State. The difference between 73 % and 38 % is large. That is why it is important that we take action on this issue. When one looks at the difference between highly skilled Belgians and highly skilled people with a migration background, one finds that 80% of the Belgian highly skilled have a job, but only 60% of the population with a migration background from one of the listed countries. The efficacy gap between the highly skilled of Belgian and other origins is 20%, respectively. For the low-skilled, that is 11%. This is a sign that not all people are given equal opportunities in the labour market, something for which practical tests could be a good solution. I was very pleased to hear from the explanation of the Summer Agreement that you would add the practical tests. I know that in March last year, before the Summer Agreement, you had submitted a draft law and sent it to the NAR for advice. That was a good draft and I thought that you had negotiated that draft in the Summer Agreement and that you would come to Parliament with that text. Unfortunately, I was disappointed, because after the negotiations you came to Parliament with a version light, probably to get your fellow Members to join us. We have often discussed it, as Mr Lanjri has already mentioned. We have held hearings and a resolution has come from the majority. We know that Open Vld and N-VA were opposed to practical tests, but after the Summer Agreement, everyone was suddenly in favour of them. I can see why now. It has been ensured, Minister, that you can say that the practical tests are being introduced, but they are now being made so difficult that they cannot be introduced as efficiently as possible. Your first, original version was the best. You know that the original is always better than the copy, Minister. What you are presenting to Parliament today will ensure that only practical tests can be introduced on the basis of complaints. There must be objective indications, it must be supported by data mining and there must be the consent of an employment auditor. That's how you make it pretty cumbersome. The aim of practical tests was to be able to check, without notice, whether or not there is discrimination. Now you say there must be a data mining first. I am in favour of data mining, which can be a very useful tool in the fight against fraud. It can also be very useful to demonstrate whether or not there is discrimination. But in this case, how many studies do we need to demonstrate that some people are discriminated against? However, you make this a condition for a practical test to be carried out. If tomorrow or the day after tomorrow a social inspector would dare to introduce the technique of mystery shopping on his own initiative, it will be flagged back if there is no permission from the labour inspector. We therefore regret, Minister, that you have actually made the practical tests more difficult. It is a step in the right direction, in that you can say that the practical tests are a fact, but unfortunately this does not go far enough. This is why my group will abstain from voting on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u122	Mr President, Minister, you will probably not be surprised that I will also mention the mystery calls in my speech. We often hear it said that these mystery calls should not become a witch hunt. I always wonder who's leading a witch hunt like that. What I rarely hear is that we need an instrument to effectively demonstrate and tackle discrimination. This should be the end of our comprehensive and good anti-discrimination laws, which must not remain a dead letter. We need such an instrument. I'd like to return to the end of last year. Last year's socio-economic monitoring confirmed once again that people of foreign origin have much less opportunities on the labour market. In no other country in the European Union is the job gap between people of foreign and indigenous origin as large as we are. This time, socio-economic monitoring also undermines the killer in black and white that this is mainly because people of foreign origin would be less educated. Better training may increase the chances of a job, but it does not remove the gap. A highly skilled youngster of African or Maghreb origin has to search for an average of 12 months for a first job, compared with only three months for a Belgian high-skilled worker. Even more so, a job seeker of Belgian descent, with a secondary education diploma, finds work even easier than a university of foreign origin. In the report on this subject, Minister Peeters, you will always have the floor. Today, three years after your first initiative, you will succeed in getting the so-called mysterycalls adopted by the majority. The question is, of course, whether the mystery calls will really bring to the dike. Will they be an effective instrument to limit discrimination, which has once again been demonstrated by socio-economic monitoring? That's why I like to dot the i. I repeat my fear, Minister, that you are happy with a dead sparrow. This also explains why the N-VA and the MR, which have just voted against the Brussels decree, will soon adopt the text. There are several aspects, but I will focus on the most important. The inspectors of the Federal Labour Inspectorate will only be able to proceed reactively to mysterycalls, after a complaint or a report by a victim, and therefore not proactively. The latter was, however, one of the main recommendations of the expert committee which recently evaluated the anti-discrimination and anti-racism legislation in force. Minister, in this way you will continue to place responsibility for the fight against discrimination on the victims themselves. That's too absurd for words. After all, the evaluation of the anti-discrimination laws showed once again that the number of complaints and notifications is very low. We know that after yet another occurrence of discrimination, reporting fatigue occurs. People are just tired of complaining about it over and over again. As it happens, today in De Standaard there was a testimony from May Mudawi, someone of Sudanese descent. We are talking about Sudan from a different perspective. She applied three years ago for a student job at the Panos in Zottegem. She was only allowed to wash dishes in the back, out of the sight of the customers, as she was told. Apparently, customers wouldn't like to have a female sandwich touched. Did May mention that discrimination? Did she file a complaint? No, she didn't. 'Cause she's tired. She can give a cartload examples of racist treatments. In addition to the notification fatigue, there is another important aspect why it is so unfortunate that mysterycalls are only possible after a complaint or a notification. People often do not know at all that they are discriminated against. After all, how can one possibly know that it is up to his or her strange sounding name if one does not get an answer to an application? Again, an opportunity is missed here. The fact that the inspection cannot proceed proactively to mystery calls, as I said, is a missed opportunity to act decisively in the fight against discrimination. And no, that wouldn't mean witch hunt. It would mean that the inspection could carry out targeted checks after so-called flashing lights. Of course, a complaint or a report of a victim could be such a flashing light. Fair enough. However, if sectoral self-regulation and controls show evidence of discrimination or if a sector fails to set up such a system of self-regulation, the Labour Inspectorate will not be able to do anything if there is no complaint or notification. I would like to stress that this is contrary to the spirit of the resolution which we have indeed adopted. Contrary to what Mrs Lanjri says, if there are no reports or complaints, even though she is aware of problems with self-regulation, the Labour Inspectorate will still not be able to carry out practical tests on the basis of this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u123	In the example you cite, she can. It is true that people do not always know whether they are discriminated against. Therefore, the inspection has the extensive power to present itself as an applicant. Assuming that the person concerned is not aware of the discrimination, but that the VDAB or the temporary agency notes that, for example, in a construction company with normally mixed staff there is never a person of foreign origin, or that in a company with 200 employees all employees are under 30 years of age, the latter may refer to it as a third party. It is enough to call the social inspection. In that case, the social inspection may establish, via data mining at the Crossroads Bank, that in that company there are indeed no more than two hundred employees working in that company and ask the auditor if she can test it. Well, I guess there's a lot to be said about it. There is indeed a need for clues, because we will not start to check everywhere, will we? That is not possible, because the inspection service is rather limited. Anyway, in the cases you mention, mystery calls can be fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u124	Mrs. Lanjri, there will always be a complaint or a report. We know the number of complaints and reports is low. If there is no complaint or notification, but data mining or datamatching shows that there is a problem, then it will not be possible, as long as there is no complaint or notification. You had these cumulative conditions entered into the legal text. Action must always be after a complaint or notification. That's in writing in article 32 of the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u125	You were also present at the hearing we held two years ago, and you heard there were almost no complaints. Why was that? They said the burden of proof was too heavy. The introduction of practical tests was effectively advocated at the time. We repeated that in the resolution. The criticism can be expressed that the design is not entirely perfect. That's right, that's why I asked for an evaluation after a year, and you agreed. However, it is an important step, because the door is opened to practical tests, for mysterycalls. They'll be able to happen. In practice, this will have to prove whether they are working properly and whether they need to be improved. We are open to that. Rome wasn't built in a day either. We will never claim that the text cannot be edited. However, let us start now. It is an important victory that the mystery calls finally come after we have asked for it for decades. They never got there then, not even when the Greens were part of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u126	Mrs Lanjri, I am glad that you are so positive and that you believe so strongly in a very strong light version. You are undoubtedly also convinced that the text should have gone a little further. My biggest fear is that the majority, now that they have introduced the mystery calls, does not think that there will be much to do in the coming years in terms of discrimination. You give the text the benefit of the doubt. From the opposition, I can be a little more critical and pessimistic about that. I'm rounding up. Minister, I found a quote from you at the end of December on the VRT website. I am sure that you really mean it when you say that the situation is so serious that everyone has to take responsibility, both the government and civil society, the employers and the people of foreign origin themselves. I wonder whether this is the way in which the government takes responsibility for making the fight against discrimination still depend on the victims of discrimination itself, by giving birth to a dead child because of a difficult political compromise. What does this buy as a victim? What's going to change for the victims in practice? In Brussels, CD&V proudly hits the drum. In Ghent, the proactive use of these practical tests can be done, even by third parties. I also asked the Minister if he could apply for a Turkish or Moroccan person looking for work. I don't think so. I don't know what the department of labour inspectors looks like, but I have a lot of questions about that, too. Will there be sufficient manpower? Will we have enough people who meet all these characteristics to carry out a test of practice in a credible way at all? I wonder why this federal government can't do it. I think we know the answer to that. Minister, I am sorry to have to say this so loudly, but I fear that what you like to dismiss as a trophy is once again an example of the way in which CD&V has to bite in the sand over and over again in this government, while your party has apparently been knocking on that nail for 15 years. If this is your trophy after 15 years, that's enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very clear. Like all the speakers I have already heard in this debate today, my group is against any form of discrimination. I have heard Mrs Lanjri say that discrimination is unacceptable. This government is going for zero tolerance on discrimination. I welcome this and hope that all forms of discrimination will be dealt with, including discrimination based on conviction. Local elections are coming this year. I hope that people will no longer be expelled from a union because of a political opinion, because they dare to stand up for a party in the municipal elections. We are certainly in favour of tackling discrimination. We cannot accept any form of discrimination. However, the question is whether this is the right instrument. Mrs Lanjri is very enthusiastic about the practical tests on Chapter 9 of this bill. I think it is a little unfortunate that this is only about Chapter 9, because there are also a lot of good things in this draft law, but because of that chapter we will not be able to support the draft law. I wonder whether Mrs Lanjri's enthusiasm is shared by Mr Van der Donkt. I can assure you that the Flemings are not in favour of these practical tests. There is a need for support for other matters, but this does not seem to be relevant in this respect. I've already heard the argument here that the job gap is big. Is it automatically the result of discrimination in the workplace? A job gap of 27.3 % is mentioned. Other reasons, such as qualification, training and lack of knowledge of the language, seem to me to be more obvious than discrimination. I want to get an interview on Doorbraak from 12 May 2014 with Mrs Demir. It was specifically about discrimination in the workplace. I quote the interviewer: "Find a job with a last name like Demir or Abou Jahjah, easy is different." To which Mrs Demir replied: "I do not believe that there is structural discrimination in the workplace. A sensible employer does not look at the name of an applicant, who looks at talents and competences." The interview continued. Mrs Demir referred to the alarming figures of immigrants in education and unemployment, which the interviewer once again called for: 'There is a structural problem'. Mrs Demir replied immediately: "But this is not due to discrimination. Anyone who claims to do so must say in concrete terms what it is made of." Colleagues, I fully agree with the 2014 Zuhal Demir. There is no indication that there would be structural discrimination in the labour market. Companies are generally very pragmatic and very rational in their actions. They, in the society in which we live, of course, need to make their business run as optimal as possible and make it as profitable as possible. To this end, they attract workers on the labour market, whether white, yellow, black or brown, who, in their opinion, are best suited to meet the needs. That is why, if there is no structural problem, I am surprised that such far-reaching measures are being taken. The social inspectors are allowed to commit offences. That's the bottom line. They are granted immunity to the judge in order to commit criminal acts. They can offer themselves as potential employees, all with the intention of luring those employers into the trap. We do not think it is a good idea to culpabilise the business world. Discrimination must be tackled, but this is not the way. Snitching practices and gestapo practices do not belong in a rule of law. We have therefore tabled an amendment to clarify this chapter from the draft law, especially since I hear here from Mrs Lanjri that it is only a first step. Mr Van der Donkt, you said at the time that it certainly should not be a witch hunt. Today, a step towards that witch hunt is ahead for the vote. I very much hope that you still share your party's position in 2014, in particular that these practical tests, which belong in dictatorial regimes, where there is terror and thought police, do not belong here and that you will support the amendment to remove this chapter from the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u128	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is sufficient input in this bill containing various provisions. There's good business in it, but there's also the hatch over the mystery calls. I hear a lot of people are very positive about that, but I also know a lot of Flemings who absolutely don't want to know anything about those mystery calls. And yet they come. Mr Pas has also mentioned that a number of members of the majority have always insisted in the past that they never want mystery calls to come. And yet, they're here. No one can support discrimination in the labour market, neither can we. That is a matter that needs to be made clear. Our group is more in favour of self-regulation by the sectors. This is already being applied in the Flemish service cheque sector. It has even been proven that self-regulation can work. There are also practical tests, but self-regulation is organised by the sector and not by the Flemish Labour Inspectorate. Unfortunately, you do not follow this slope, that is of course your right, you walk the slope of the mysterycalls. But then I still have two very important remarks. Because then I'd like to take a look at the legal side of that story. Provocation by police or inspection services shall be prohibited in the determination of crime. In the judgment in Ramanauskas v. Lithuania, the European Court of Human Rights makes it very clear that there is entrapment once inspectors do more than merely passively observe. Mr. Secretary, you're stuck here in your bill. After all, what you want cannot be legal. You now write in the law that there must be no provocation. You said so in committee. The problem is, of course, that when we look at the mystery calls themselves, which are by definition more than merely passive observation. After all, what does your law say? One may pose as a customer or as an employee. Then it goes beyond passive observation. We believe the law is built on quicksand. I am not so sure that the text will pass the test of the European Court of Human Rights. Then there is a second important point. The mystery call must be done with the permission of the employment officer or the King's Attorney. I would like to refer to the Constitutional Court. Not long ago, at the end of December, the Constitutional Court referred large pieces of the potpourri laws of your colleague Geens, the Minister of Justice, to the constitutional wastebasket. Perhaps it would have been useful for you to have taken a close look at that judgment. The Constitutional Court says: "Research measures that infringe the right to privacy can only be carried out in the context of a judicial investigation." This therefore means under the supervision of an independent and impartial judge. I think this is a very important point, because the judge can thus check the regularity of that procedure, which, of course, cannot now. There is no independent judge. You now assign responsibility to the employment officer or the King's Attorney. Of course, that's a problem. I also wonder why you couldn't let that go through an independent judge. Moreover, these parquet magistrates can even allow inspectors to commit criminal offences, as it says in your design. That's a long way to go. So we have a lot of legal reservations. It would certainly not be a bad thing to go to the Minister of Justice Geens again, who also had to make a number of adjustments in this context. I think an adjustment would be appropriate here. Instead of having the permission given by the labour attorney or attorney of the King, much can be solved by judicial process. Then, of course, there is still the story of provocation. The maximum allowed is merely passive observation. There are a number of things in your bill that go beyond passive observation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a bill of various provisions, which necessarily means that there is something to drink and eat there. There are a number of positive issues, including the issue of embassy staff. However, I will go straight to the point where debate is taking place, which concerns mystery shopping and mystery calls. I find this rather disappointing: you have committed yourself to taking real and effective action in this area, and they are not. Belgium is lagging behind in Europe in the fight against discrimination in the labour market. I'll give you two numbers. The first comes from a study by the KU Leuven, which showed that people with a foreign name are twice as likely to be called to a job interview, with an equivalent qualification. We also saw testimonies on television, where a person with a foreign name responded to a job offer and then sent it with another Belgian name. In this second case, the person was summoned, whereas in the first case, the person was not summoned. The other figure comes from a survey carried out in 2015 by the Minderhedenforum in the sector of service securities agencies. The survey showed that 62.5% of the agencies interviewed responded favourably to a client's request for non-aligned domestic helpers, although this was a discriminatory request prohibited by law. One of the major problems in the fight against such discrimination is the lack of evidence. Unia reveals that three quarters of cases brought before a criminal court for discrimination are dismissed, "for technical reasons", in 67 per cent of cases, which means that the evidence is insufficient. That's exactly what these mystery calls and mystery shopping should have done. But the conditions imposed in the bill are such that the measure is meaningless. Several cumulative conditions must apply in order to carry out these mystery calls and mystery shopping. Social inspectors need to receive complaints, clues and indications. There must be data mining, there must be no discrimination in other ways. It also requires the prior agreement of the labour auditor or the king's attorney. In short, the accumulation of all these conditions is assimilated to what might be called a first-class burial. Let us be clear: in most cases this will no longer apply. It's too bad and it's even serious. All the more so since, at the level of the Brussels Parliament, where there was also reluctance at the beginning, an intense field campaign, in which the PTB collaborated, was organised. Finally, the balance of forces was changed. There have been real measures against discrimination. Unfortunately, what is not in this project, Minister. We shall therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u130	Mr President, Minister, although this mosaic-type bill contains excellent measures, in particular with regard to the working regime or to economic unemployment, I unfortunately do not share your view on Chapter 9 on anti-discrimination. I believe that every employer has the right to freely choose its workers and employees on the basis of criteria that it establishes itself. I believe that the freedom to undertake is also the freedom to choose one's collaborators. For this reason, minister, I will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u131	Mr President, Minister, I would have liked to talk briefly about something else. After all, there are other points in the design than just mysterycalls. There are the measures to tackle burn-out, there is the consultation on always being accessible, the measures to give young people more opportunities for employment, in short, all measures that we are voting on today. I would like to refer briefly to the amendment to the collective agreement law, whereby, by amending Article 27, we remove a number of thresholds to allow reform in the landscape of the joint committees, in other words simplifying and reducing. This reform ensures that, when moving from one committee to another, rights and wage and working conditions remain guaranteed for workers until 1 January 2023. This is important in order to create legal certainty. Of course, after that, we must ensure legal certainty and continuity. That is why we in committee have planned the evaluation two years earlier, namely 31 December 2021, by means of an amendment, in order to assess the legal effects from 1 January 2023. It seems clear to me that we are also involving the social partners, and I would like to talk about that. The evaluation should not be a purely political evaluation: the social partners should also be involved and the opinion of the National Labour Council should be requested in the evaluation before 31 December 2021. That seems to me to be the obvious self and I trust you will confirm this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u132	Mr President, I shall confine myself to the mystery calls. This subject has already been discussed very widely, so I will be brief. Minister, I would like to congratulate you on the fine work you have done, including on the mystery calls. The basis is the June 2015 resolution. I know that the opposition has enjoyed the fact that there have been some differences of opinion in the run-up to the government agreement and the draft law, but in the end the differences of opinion were discussed in a constructive way. So you can see that if we work together constructively and listen to each other, we can achieve a good result. The differences of opinion, and that is why we were somewhat reluctant at first to the initial draft law, were actually concerns of the N-VA. After all, we wanted to avoid that the mystery calls as originally designed would lead to a witch hunt, a stigmatization of employers. As has already been said, employers are not necessarily the cause of the problem, of the discrimination in the labour market. They have no interest in that. We were also concerned about legal certainty. Mrs Pas, discrimination in the labour market must, of course, be avoided and combated in all its forms. I believe we are in agreement on this. It is indeed difficult to establish this form of discrimination. I'm a lawyer myself. I know that when a case comes to court, the lawyers will use every possible means to challenge possible breaches of the law. It is therefore very important that the rights of the defence are respected in the fight against possible discrimination or suspected infringements of the legislation on discrimination. The basis of this is, of course, the presumption of innocence. That is why we wanted to avoid the witch hunt and stigmatisation. After some talk, a good instrument for combating and preventing discrimination in the labour market has finally been established, while guaranteeing legal certainty. Mrs Willaert, we still have self-regulation. There is provision for sensitization and control. It should be borne in mind that the use of mystery calls is a special method of detection which cannot be made available to actors in the field. That must be subject to judicial review and control. Reference is made to the situation in the Brussels-Capital Region. I wish to see the first case before the court where such a mystery call is used as evidence. I'm afraid of problems in this area. In the present draft, for which of course bravo, Minister, I believe that there are sufficient safeguards to avoid abuse and arbitrary use of mysterycalls as an ultimate means of combating discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u133	Colleague, I would like to make a few comments. Firstly, I believe that no one here wants to stigmatize employers in any way. I continue to oppose the image that would be called to a witch hunt. Secondly, I would like to ask you a simple question. Socio-economic monitoring shows that highly skilled young people of African or Maghreb origin have to look for their first job for an average of 12 months, while'real Flemings' or'real Brusselsers', or'real Walls' already have a job after three months. Moreover, even a job seeker of Belgian descent with a diploma of secondary education finds work easier than a university of foreign origin. You say that not everything would have to do with discrimination. Then I'd like to hear from you what you think it has to do with? Without stigmatizing, we cannot deny the sun's light. There are clearly problems in this area. I have just quoted the example of someone of African origin who, because of her skin color, is allowed to wash dishes at Panos, but should not lubricate sandwiches, because the customers would not want her to touch a doughnut or a sandwich. You can't deny that, can you? I wonder what your explanation is for the difference in equal education? As Mrs Lanjri said, An and Sofie do get a job and Muhammad and Fatima don't. You can't deny that, can you? Thirdly, you questioned the fact that in Brussels mystery calls can also be proactively and on the basis of notifications by a third party. Well, the Council of State has not made any comments on this, whereas the majority in Parliament has already adopted texts that have not passed the test of the Council of State!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u134	Mrs Willaert, have you heard me say that there is no discrimination in the labour market? No, otherwise this medicine would not be necessary. We supported that resolution at the time. There is indeed some form of discrimination in the labour market. Here's what I want to say. We must not restrict the debate to the conclusion that, when certain categories of our society have difficulties in accessing the labour market, not only people of ethnic origin or older people, or in the event of discrimination between men and women, which is due to discrimination by the employer. It's a very complex fact. This has to do with age, background, education and training. You will always find examples that contradict the statement. For the same reason, people of ethnic origin are accepted with an education, while a white person with the same education has had to put his finger on it. Is that discrimination? That's what's gonna happen. However, when there is a flagrant situation with an employer, action must naturally be taken. That's what the tool's for. That's what the new law is for. As far as Brussels is concerned, I have also read the opinion of the Council of State. I think we have read another opinion. To me, it didn't look like what you just came to tell me. By the way, is the Brussels Region competent to deal with such matters? I'm rounding up. Despite our initial reservation and restraint, we finally find mysterycalls a good tool to combat possible discrimination in the labour market. We will therefore fully support that aspect of the draft law, as will all other articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u135	Mr President, I would like to thank all the speakers. This draft law was discussed extensively in committee and now in plenary. The opposition has also underlined the positive elements of the draft law. I would like to thank her for that. I heard that two remarks were made. The first concerned the mystery calls and the second, the joint committees. As far as the mystery calls are concerned, I would like to stress that we have, of course, used the opinions received and the information from the hearings extensively. I regret that there is no other way of looking at this from the opposition, for example as regards the cumulative conditions that some people see in it, despite the text and explanation I have given. I'll start with the employment officer. The Employment Officer has been added to it following the opinion of the experts on social criminal law. We have taken careful account of this. Mrs Willaert still does not want to hear it or does not understand it. If the experts on social criminal law say that it is best to include the hearing officer, then it is very wise to take that into account. For those who are legally trained, we have taken into account all the legal elements of the various interventions. It is true that this is a special investigative tool, and it must also be borne in mind that when discrimination is established with this new instrument, it must also be punished afterwards. There were already tweets about dead sparrows before the discussion started, something I regret. It seems that the Greens, in particular, do not see that this is a step and that I have committed myself to ensuring that this will also work in practice. Although there are sometimes positive reactions from Green, there is nothing here but trying to level this completely. They say nothing will come of it and so on. I will do everything I can, together with the administration and with those who are going to implement this in practice, to ensure that the instrument, as it will be adopted later, can also be applied. We have just had questions about the shortage in the labour market. Discrimination on the labour market is a serious problem and its resolution can help to fill open vacancies as soon as possible. Secondly, with regard to the Joint Committees, I have understood Mrs Onkelinx's remarks for the second time. I understand that Mr Vercamer has asked that the National Labour Council be involved in the review scheduled for 2021. In this respect, I can confirm that we will do so. The other chapters are unfortunately a bit snowed under. There are a lot of good things in this bill, including the mystery calls. I will do everything I can to make it work in practice and to show the opposition that has already referred to it as a dead sparrow that it is mistaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u136	Mr President, Minister, I did not speak at all about the employment auditor. We want to give that the benefit of the doubt. Unia also wants to give the labour inspector a chance. I've focused on the point that we seem to be the most missed opportunity, and that's the proactive use of those tests. I did it for a reason. You have indeed clarified a number of things in committee. You have said, for example, that if there is a complaint, but there is no data mining or data matching after that, then the inspection can still continue. I have followed that very closely and understood. I think this is so important because a few years ago, as the only opposition party, we adopted the resolution on discrimination in the labour market, which was drafted by the majority. Mrs Lanjri also said that. It is precisely for this reason that we have been careful to ensure that something has actually come out of the bus that is worth it. I'll follow this very closely. I hope you are right, but unfortunately I am a little disappointed by this light version of what came out of the resolution on mystery calls. That doesn't promise much good. We then gave it the benefit of the doubt, which is why we now have the right to be particularly critical about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u137	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u138	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2768/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2768/7) The inscription in French was changed by the committee in.. projet de loi portant des dispositions diverses en matière d............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The title in French has been amended by the committee in draft law on various provisions in the field of employment". The draft law contains 54 articles. The bill has 54 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u139	• 46 - Meryame Kitir (2768/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u140	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u141	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rules 4, 30 to 35.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u142	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 3, 5 to 29, 36 to 54.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u143	The conflicts of interest concern the draft law amending the law on the exercise of healthcare professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015, No. 2652 and the draft law on the failure to take into account services performed as a non-permanent staff member for a public sector pension, amending the individual responsibility of the provincial and local authorities within the Consolidated Pension Fund, adapting the rules on supplementary pensions, amending the procedures for financing the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities and for additional financing of the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities, No. 2718. Conflicts of interest relate to the bill amending the Act on the Exercise of Health Care Professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015, No. 2652 and the bill on the non-inclusion of services as unappointed personnel in a public sector pension, amending the individual accountability of provincial and local governments within the Consolidated Pension Fund, adapting the regulation of supplementary pensions, amending the funding arrangements of the Consolidated Pension Fund of provincial and local governments and providing additional funding to the Consolidated Pension Fund of provincial and local governments, No. 2718. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 January 2018, the delegation will consist of Ms Valerie Van Peel (rapporteur), Mr André Frédéric and David Clarinval, Ms Nathalie Muylle, Mr Dirk Janssens and Mrs Monica De Coninck, Mr Muriel Gerkens (President of the Health Commission) and Catherine Fonck for the Bill No. Mr Jan Spooren, Mr Frédéric Daerden and Mr Damien Thiéry, Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne (Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee), Ms Karin Temmerman, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Catherine Fonck for the Bill No 2652. 2718. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 January 2018, the Chamber's delegation will be composed of Ms Valerie Van Peel (Rapporteur), MM. André Frédéric and David Clarinval, Nathalie Muylle, Dirk Janssens and Monica De Coninck, Muriel Gerkens (Chair of the Public Health Committee) and Catherine Fonck for Bill 2652 and the House delegation will be composed of MM. Jan Spooren, Frédéric Daerden and Damien Thiéry, Sonja Becq, Vincent Van Quickenborne (Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee), Karin Temmerman, Georges Gilkinet and Catherine Fonck for Bill No. 2718. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with Article 102 No. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, I will arrange for consultations with the Council of the French Community Committee on these two conflicts of interest. In accordance with Rule 102, No. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, I shall organise a consultation with the Assembly of the French Community Commission concerning these two conflicts of interest. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u144	The mandate of the Chairman of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services, Mr Guy Rapaille, shall expire on 19 July 2018. The term of office of the Chair of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services, Guy Rapaille, expires on July 19, 2018. In accordance with Article 30 of the Law of 18 July 1991 regulating the supervision of police and intelligence services and the coordination body for threat analysis, the members of the Committee I shall be appointed for a renewable term of six years starting from their swearing-in. At the end of that period, members shall continue to perform their duties until their successor is sworn in. Pursuant to article 30 of the Law of 18 July 1991 on the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis, the members of the R Committee are appointed for a renewable term of six years, beginning from the date of their swearing-in. At the end of this term, the members shall remain in office until the swearing-in of their replacement. The first paragraph of Article 28 of the same Act provides that two alternates shall be appointed for each member of the I Committee. The Chamber should therefore also appoint a new first and second vice-chairmen. Article 28, paragraph 1, of the same Act stipulates that for each member of the R Committee two alternates shall be appointed. The House must therefore also appoint a first and a second alternate Speaker. With the exception of the president, the Committee I has as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members. With the exception of the Chair, the R Committee has as many French-speaking as Dutch-speaking members. The Chairman of the I Committee must be a magistrate. The Chairman of the R Committee must be a magistrate. The presidents of the P Committee and of the I Committee should have a different language role. The Chairs of the P Committee and the R Committee must have a different linguistic role. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 January 2018, I propose that you publish an appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal, both for the mandate of the Chairman of the Committee I and for the mandates of the first and second vice-chairmen. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 January 2018, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a call for candidates both for the term of office of Chairman of the R Committee and for the terms of office of first and second alternate President. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u145	The General Assembly of the Council of State of 3 October 2017 unanimously nominated Mr Jan Velaers, a mere professor at the University of Antwerp, as the faculty of Law, as the first candidate for the post of Dutch-speaking assessor of the Law Department of the Council of State. The General Assembly of the Council of State on 3 October 2017 unanimously presented Mr Jan Velaers, ordinary professor at the University Antwerpen - facultyeit Rechtsgeleerdheid′′′, as the first candidate for the position of Dutch-speaking assessor of the legislative section of the Council of State. By letter dated 2 January 2018, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, in charge of the Directorate of Buildings, announced that he would accept this nomination. By letter dated 2 January 2018, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, indicated that he accepted this presentation. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 January 2018, I propose that you confirm this nomination. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 January 2018, I propose that you confirm this presentation. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u146	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 30 November 2017, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 6 December 2017 for the office of Dutch-speaking judge at the Constitutional Court. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 30 November 2017, an appeal to the candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 6 December 2017 for the position of Dutch-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. The vacancy is provided for under Article 34, § 1, 2°, of the Special Law of 6 January 1989 at the Constitutional Court. This vacancy is filled on the basis of Article 34 § 1, 2° of the Special Law of 6 January 1989 on the Constitutional Court. The applications were to be submitted by 5 January 2018. Applications were to be submitted by 5 January 2018 at the latest. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mrs Joséphine (Fientje) Moerman - Mrs Martine Taelman - Mr. Luc Willems. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms. Joséphine (Fientje) Moerman - Mrs. Martine Taelman - Mr. Luc Willems. By e-mail of 9 January 2018, Mr Luc Willems withdraws his candidacy. By email dated January 9, 2018, Luc Willems withdrew his application. In accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 32 of the above-mentioned special law, the Chamber must propose a list of two candidates. This list shall be adopted by a majority of two thirds of the votes of the members present. The new judge is appointed by the King. In accordance with article 32, paragraph 1, of the above-mentioned special law, the Chamber must present a double list which must be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the members present. The new judge will be appointed by the King. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 January 2018, I propose that the candidates' CVs be sent to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 January 2018, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u147	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the Law of 20 July 2006 on the establishment and operation of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products and laying down various other provisions concerning the financing of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, No. 2836/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill amending the Act of 20 July 2006 on the establishment and operation of the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products and on various other provisions relating to the financing of the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products, No. 2836/1 was tabled. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request. The use wants the government to provide a justification. I understand, however, that you have not been informed. I suggest we discuss this next week. The same applies to the other request for urgency concerning the mobility allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u148	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 January 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) on the implementation of the Belgian Interfederal Energy Pact, No. 2882/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet) on the Belgian Interfederal Energy Pact, No. 2883/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Mr Isabelle Galant and Mr Benoît Friart) on the development of the circular economy and the prevention of planned ageing, No. 2884/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u149	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 January 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) on the implementation of the Belgian Interfederal Energy Pact, No 2882/1; - the motion for a resolution (MM. Kristof Calvo and Jean-Marc Nollet) on the Belgian Interfederal Energy Pact, No 2883/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Isabelle Galant and Mr Benoît Friart) on the development of the circular economy and the fight against planned obsolescence, No 2884/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u150	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u151	Mr President, as a service communication, some Members may wonder why we do not ask the urgency of our resolution on the Energy Pact. Our group is giving this as the priority for the discussion of legislative documents next Tuesday in the Chamber. This gives us an immediate chance to speed up this discussion, because there is an urgent need for clarity on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u152	Not at all, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u153	On 12 December 2017, the Committee for Justice initiated the examination of the draft law amending the Civil Code, the Civil Code and the Law of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in court cases (document No. 2827/1). On 12 December 2017, the Justice Commission began discussion of the bill amending the Judicial Code, the Civil Code and the Act of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in judicial matters (doc. No 2827/1). By letter dated 13 December 2017, Mr Philippe Goffin, Chairman of the Justice Commission, stated that the Committee considered it useful to submit this draft law to the Supreme Court for its opinion. By letter of 13 December 2017, Mr Philippe Goffin, Chairman of the Justice Committee, announced that the Commission had found it useful to submit this bill to the Supreme Council of Justice for its opinion. I suggest that we give our opinion on this request today. I propose that we take a decision today on this request. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would remind you that, pursuant to Article 259a-12 (1) of the Civil Code, the majority of the members of the Chamber must give their opinion on the request for an opinion. he reminds you that, pursuant to Article 259bis-12, § 1, of the Judicial Code, the majority of the members of the Chamber must rule in favour of the request for an opinion. I propose that we vote on this electronically. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the request for an opinion was adopted. The opinion of the Supreme Court of Justice will be requested. Accordingly, the request for an opinion is accepted. The opinion of the Supreme Council of Justice will be sought.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u154	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on 19 December 2017. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises of 19 December 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 239/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Georges Dallemagne; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 239/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Georges Dallemagne; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u155	Mr President, nothing has been done by the government to unblock the Brussels overflight or to relieve the Brussels people who suffer from it, even though they had been given reasons to hope. The government agreement referred to the development of a structural and definitive solution and a policy to combat noise pollution around the airport, particularly in densely populated areas. Brussels, of course, was one of the objectives. During the first two years of the legislature, nothing was done by Mrs Galant to implement this agreement, except to transfer flights from the ring road to the canal road, which was obviously the opposite of what had to be done. Faced with this inertia and numerous violations of environmental rules protecting the Brussels people, Minister Céline Fremault, on behalf of the Brussels government, had to take various initiatives to force the government to remove the file from the fridge. The introduction by the Brussels Region of zero tolerance for environmental offences has sparked a simmering trend, forcing Minister Bellot to bring together representatives of the different Regions in the same room. But given the inflexibility of the Flemish government and the Flemish component of the federal government, Minister Bellot handed the case over to the Federal Refrigerator. At the same time, in June 2016, Minister Fremault brought an action before the Brussels court to stop the massive violations of noise standards in the Brussels region. The court gave him reason and ordered the federal government, among other things, to stop the manifest violations of these standards and to address to the Region the measures he intended to take to do so. The Brusselsers legitimately hoped that this judgment would finally make it possible to bring out the record of the fridge, especially since the judgment was accompanied by periodicities. This ruling finally placed the MR in a position of strength to move the case forward and honour the commitments he had made to his voters, and to respect the government agreement, because it was now a matter of enforcing the rule of law. Unfortunately, these hopes were once again disappointed, as the minister chose to misuse certain elements of the judgment to put the case back in the fridge, actually send it back to the next legislature, and try to bury it. In so doing, the government and the RM who led him persisted in violating their commitments to the population and voters. They do not respect the government agreement or the judgment of the Brussels court or, therefore, the rule of law. It's serious. I am confident that the Brusselsers and Walloon Brabant residents who are under intensive overflight will remember this when they vote in October and June 2019. That is why I have tabled a motion specifically to enforce the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u156	Mr Dallemagne, you have exceeded your two minutes of speaking time. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u157	Yes 78 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u158	This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Defence on 20 December 2017. This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the National Defence Commission on December 20, 2017. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 242/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Alain Top; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 242/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Alain Top; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Peter Buysrogge and Jean-Jacques Flahaux. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2013, the Netherlands decided to purchase 37 F-35 aircraft. The new Secretary of State for Defence of the Netherlands, Barbara Visser, informed the House that only 34 aircraft would be purchased for the time being, because the purchase of 37 aircraft would be too expensive. According to the Dutch Defence Department, with the planned 37 fighter aircraft they could deploy four aircraft for military missions and two aircraft for the surveillance of Dutch airspace. According to the calculations of the General Court of the Netherlands, this is an overestimated calculation. The Court expects that only four aircraft will be available for foreign missions and airspace monitoring together. Now that the number of 37 to 34 devices is shrinking, even this Dutch ambition is at risk. Colleagues, the F-35 is one of the candidate successors of our F-16 fighter planes. This government provides for the purchase of 34 aircraft. A scenario such as the Dutch would be disastrous: less than 34 aircraft means that operationality can be questioned. My group is not in favour of the purchase of new fighter aircraft, but the purchase of fewer aircraft would prevent the aircraft from being used for military missions and for the surveillance of airspace. We are talking about the purchase of the century and there are many lessons to be learned from the various international replacement procedures. With our motion we would like to ask the Minister of Defence to communicate transparently about the financial consequences for our country on the F-16 replacement file, to communicate transparently on the achievable level of ambition with 34 fighter planes and to give a signal of willingness to involve the Court of Auditors in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u160	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u161	Yes 79 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u162	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2357/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2357/6) Mrs. Inez De Coninck did not abstain, she voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u163	Vote on Amendment No 42 by Laurette Onkelinx on article 4. (2768/8) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Laurette Onkelinx to Article 4. (2768/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 52 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 41 from Barbara Pas cs to the exclusion of Chapter 9, containing Articles 30 to 35. (2768/8) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Barbara Pas cs to delete Chapter 9, including Articles 30 to 35. (2768/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 4 Yes No. 131 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 30 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 30 was adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Vote on Amendment No 44 by Meryame Kitir on Article 31. (2768/8) Vote on Amendment No 44 by Meryame Kitir to Rule 31. (2768/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 51 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 31 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 31 was adopted. Mr Hellings voted like his group. Vote on Amendment No 45 by Meryame Kitir on article 32. (2768/8) Vote on Amendment No 45 by Meryame Kitir in Article 32. (2768/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Voting/vote 9) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 43 by Laurette Onkelinx on article 32. (2768/8) Vote on Amendment No 43 by Laurette Onkelinx to Article 32. (2768/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Voting/vote 9) Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 32 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 32 was adopted. Rule 33 has been adopted. Article 33 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 46 by Meryame Kitir on article 34. (2768/8) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Meryame Kitir to Article 34. (2768/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Voting/vote 9) Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 34 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 34 was adopted. Rule 35 has been adopted. Article 35 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 78 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2768/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2768/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-11-54-plenair-ip210x.u165	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 18 January 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, January 18, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 18 January 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 18 January 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
