ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u1	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, connected objects have invaded our daily lives and are now found everywhere, including in living rooms, kitchens, business premises and, above all, in children's rooms. As Christmas approached, alarmist discourses on the safety of dolls and other intelligent robots had multiplied in the media, all over Belgium but more generally in Europe. In France, for example, the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms recently issued a negative opinion concerning toys with cameras, microphones and an Internet connection, which secretly record a multitude of personal information about children and their surroundings. These include the voices, content of conversations exchanged with toys, and data related to the use of applications. Worse, it also appears that ill-intentioned people could connect their own mobile phones to a child's toy up to a distance of 9 metres and communicate with the child. In Belgium, Test Achats has been issuing warnings for two years about the proliferation of connected toys that could threaten the safety and privacy of children and their families. In October 2017, the Federal Police website released a video of specific advice on the subject, the title of which is very explicit: "Silent surf: a connected doll spying on you". Deputy Prime Minister, what is the government's current strategy to address the risks of these connected toys? What are the contacts between your services and consumer associations on this issue? Is there an open discussion with our European partners, who are also concerned with this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u2	Madam President, Mr Calomne, I share your concern to ensure the reliability of products placed on the market, especially when it comes to the health and safety of children. Security of equipment is essential to enable our citizens to use these new technologies with confidence. However, the legislation in force in Belgium in the field of electronic communications does not make it possible to prohibit marketing. The IBPT contacted the judicial authorities to analyse the possibility of basing itself on certain articles of the Criminal Code in order to prohibit their sale. In addition, a working group has proposed to the European Commission that new safety criteria related to hacking risks be added to the Radio Equipment Directive. These proposals are supported by Belgium. Finally, I would point out that the IBPT judicial police officers, as part of their monitoring mission, have already made numerous seizures of connected equipment not in accordance with current legislation. If these seizures were not directly justified by the problem set out in your question, they may have already had the effect of limiting the import of equipment that could lead to the nuisances mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u3	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u4	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister: "Who can understand that we want to tax progress?", This is the heart call recently made by the head of the Federation of Agoria Technology Industries in the press, supported in this direction by various bosses of the country's main telecom companies. The main targets are the standards currently in force in the Brussels Region for the deployment of 5G, which are considered among the most stringent in the European Union. As you know, the deployment of this high-speed mobile network is highly strategic in the digital revolution we are experiencing. Whether it concerns video, the banking and financial sector, travel bookings or the cultural offer, 5G is the key to a new technological leap that will benefit citizens as well as the economy in general. At the beginning of February, the employers had mentioned very positive prospects. I quote them in this connection, specifically concerning the capital. They referred to the promise of "EUR 150 million in investments and 115 million in spin-offs for the Brussels economy". As the country's digital capital, can the Brussels Region validly miss this meeting with an overly strict framework and an inadequate methodological timetable? The industrial world is so impatient. Again, I quote the head of the Agoria Federation: "I hope that we are not going to do the same nonsense as with 4G for the deployment of which Brussels had been very late. Brussels is currently applying the strictest standard at EU level. It's not serious." Of course, Deputy Prime Minister, I am aware that you are not in charge of this matter. I have perfectly in mind that you are in no way related to the absence of pragmatism, pro-activity and pro-entrepreneurial logic of the Brussels government. You probably share this feeling that our country must be at the forefront of 5G deployment in Europe, in the wake of smart devices, autonomous cars and virtual reality applications. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, have you had the opportunity to learn about the exit organised by the Agoria sectoral federation, which was supported by the main Belgian industrial players? Do you share the conclusions expressed on the risks in terms of innovation for the benefit of citizens, but also on the benefits for businesses and employment, particularly in our capital? Have you accepted the decision to meet with Belgian technology players in order to take stock together on this issue? Finally, is it possible to put this issue at the heart of the consultation committee so that the best possible follow-up can be given to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u5	Madam President, Mr Calomne, I share the concerns of the Agoria technology federation about the development of 5G in Brussels. Brussels cannot miss this opportunity and must be one of the first cities equipped with 5G. I want to avoid, at any cost, that the development of 5G does not materialize. The development of 4G in the capital also took place in a problematic way. Brussels was one of the last cities in Europe to use 4G. This cannot happen again because it would have important economic consequences. My strategic cell has had a consultation with representatives of the Brussels government in this regard. It appeared that the Brussels government had commissioned a group of experts to draft a report on 5G in Brussels. A debate on this report and on the possible adaptation of the radiation standard will take place in the Brussels Parliament before the summer. There are three main topics in this area. On the one hand, there are radiation standards, with Brussels having the most stringent regulations in Europe in several respects. On the other hand, the time frame for issuing permits is problematic. Sometimes it takes two years to obtain a permit for an antenna. Finally, there is a third problem that is probably the real problem. It's taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u6	Mr Minister, thank you and I am pleased that a debate can take place in the Brussels Parliament before the summer. We will of course follow the course of this work with, I hope, a positive development. The problems with 4G should not be known in 5G.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u7	Minister, in the e-commerce and digital business representation sector, the issue of e-notices is of paramount importance. According to a 2013 Nielsen survey, 80% of online buyers report that they take consumer notices into account when purchasing products or services. In another survey, conducted by Opinion Way, 74% of them say that they are giving up a purchase due to negative opinions posted on the web. Thus, before purchasing a product, whether or not it is in an online business, before going to a restaurant or using a service, the consumer will first consult the opinions on the internet and then decide on his choice. This is where the so-called "false opinion" practice, which can then positively or negatively influence the general opinion, and in this way influence customer confidence and appreciation. This is a practice with significant consequences, contrary to the principle of fair competition, with important issues for both consumers and businesses on the Internet. My questions on this subject are as follows. Is this phenomenon of "false opinions" on a certain scale in Belgium? Has a census of the number of cases been undertaken? Is this practice the subject of complaints? Have you ever measured the importance of the phenomenon and its impact on trade? What is the legislative framework for this issue? Finally, how can we act to regulate this practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u8	The Economic Inspectorate of the FPS Economy has not received any complaints for false comments since 2014. She is not aware of any misleading practices in this regard. It is therefore impossible to measure the extent of the phenomenon and its impact on trade. The Economic Inspectorate has, however, analysed the practices of the most popular websites in Belgium where publication of opinions is possible. All companies contacted are aware of the problem and use verification devices to minimise the publication of false comments. There are no specific rules specifically for the collection, modification and publication of opinions on the Internet. The owners of the sites are free to determine, through the conditions of use of their services, the rules governing the possibility for users to submit comments. Nevertheless, some more general provisions of the Code of Economic Law may also apply. First, there is a general prohibition of unfair and misleading commercial practices. For a company, filing or filing truncated or overly positive notices itself could be subject to this prohibition. As far as information society services are concerned, there is a general obligation to identify advertisements as soon as they are received. If, for example, a user has been paid by the trademark owner to test a product in order to then leave a positive comment on the online sales site, the publication of this notice should include the mention 'advertising'. The person on whose behalf the advertisement is made must also be clearly identifiable. Finally, the owner of a website must promptly block online access to a fraudulent notice when the latter is brought to his knowledge and he does not wish to be held liable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u9	Minister, on February 1, the Google digital giant announced at a press conference a new investment of about 250 million euros in Saint-Ghislain, Hainaut, to build a new data centre on the existing site. This new project allows Google to reach the billion euros invested in Belgium. Indeed, it was in 2009, in Saint-Ghislain, that Google's first European data centre opened its doors. It was also Google's first data center to operate without refrigeration, using an advanced evaporator cooling system. This system is only allowed due to the proximity of the site to the nearby industrial canal. As a result, in 2015, Google launched a second data centre in Ghlin, representing an investment of 300 million euros, with the aim of meeting the growing demand for data calculation and storage, due in particular to the explosion of data from mobile devices (tablets, smartphones, etc.).). At the press conference a month ago, the construction of this third data center was not the only official announcement. A solar power plant, located on the data center site, has also been unveiled, worth €3 million. In operation recently, it is the second largest solar power plant in Wallonia. It is of course important that a company like Google can grow in our regions and create sustainable and quality jobs. However, a data center is a greedy activity in terms of space and energy, with a low direct employment rate in return. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions in order to measure in more detail the impact on employment of these investments. First, Google announces 350 full-time jobs for its Ghlin website, but the Trends economic magazine reveals that the official balance sheet deposited at the National Bank by Crystal Computing (the name of the company that is dependent on Google and manages the data center) had only 101 for 2016. The remainder would be made up of security officers, catering, computer technicians, engineers and facility managers, mainly subcontractors. To arrive at the figure of 1,200 jobs mentioned by the Prime Minister and yourself at the press conference, it would actually be necessary to integrate the construction companies that are currently working on the site in Ghlin, but much of which will stop its mission until the opening of the buildings. Can you confirm these figures in the press? Have you quantified the benefits in terms of direct job creation expected by the government in relation to this Google investment? My second question concerns the tax level and the aid received by Google since its installation in 2009 in this region. What is the amount of such aid if some have been received? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u10	I confirm that Crystal Computing employed 101 full-time workers on December 31, 2016, based on the company's latest annual accounts. The rest of the workers are mainly subcontractors providing various services on behalf of Crystal Computing. The outsourcing of part of its support activities is not unique to this company. This is a very common practice especially in very large companies and in the technology sector. Google's figure of 1,200 new jobs by 2019 in Ghlin takes into account both direct and indirect jobs. It would be premature to estimate precisely the number of direct jobs created by this new investment. With regard to direct jobs, the trend observed between 2009, when the company was set up, and 2016 is very positive as the number of direct jobs increased from 13 to 101. I am confident that this trend will continue by 2019. On tax matters, I would like to refer you back to my colleagues in charge of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u11	Minister, thank you for your response. I would therefore like to ask your colleague Van Overtveld a question about the tax aid that would have been given. The point here, beyond the interesting figures, is to see how much a country, region or state should push to attract this type of business such as Google and especially with what type of project. Because, as I said in my question, the fact that Google invests in Belgium is a positive sign, but could we not imagine that these companies are investing in research centres or with high added value, which would be ideal. Even if between the ideal and the data center, there is a margin. It seems to me important to be interested in the type of investment that we attract. I will ask the Minister of Finance to have a comprehensive assessment because this kind of effort and investment must be assessed in terms of jobs that are created, and sustainable, especially since we are talking about a region like Ghlin, to which we are particularly attentive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u12	Minister, there has been a problem with the postal service in Zwankendamme for months. The mail ends up in the wrong mailboxes and mail bags stand unattended on the side for hours. Residents complain that sometimes they don't get mail for days at a time. Other days there are letters that are not meant for them. Some people haven't received several bills, resulting in letters of formal notice. The sp.a has been working on the file on the debt industry for a long time. One of the foundations is that people still have to get their bills on the bus so that they can be paid in good time. Some residents have already contacted the bpost ombudsdienst, where they went further into it, but at the moment still without result. Meanwhile, the mail is still irregular and mishandled. Mr Minister, how come the mail delivery in Zwankendamme is not going properly? What will you do to ensure that the inhabitants of Zwankendamme get their correspondence back in time and correctly in the mailbox?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u13	Bpost has no evidence that the service would have been problematic for months. In recent months Bpost received a complaint from Zwankendamme, which was not about the mail delivery but about the application "My preferences." There have been problems on some days in February due to too many absences due to illness. As the recruitment of new or replacement staff in this region has been rather difficult, it has not always been possible to provide a timely replacement and the provision of services has had to be interrupted. In addition, there was a trade union action on 27 February which also caused delays and delays. Bpost announces that three additional staff were deployed in the meantime. Start People, the company with which bpost works for the recruitment of new staff, was asked to make additional efforts to facilitate recruitment so that there would be no complaints about service provision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u14	Minister, it is good to hear that there are no problems with services and that bpost has recruited additional staff. That's very good. I'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u15	Madam President, Minister, I would like to take stock with you of the digital offer and the need for better digital coverage in my region, in the German-speaking Community. I learned, minister, that in early 2018, Ericsson and Corda Campus will install in Hasselt the first test environment dedicated to 5G in Belgium. Great! This facility will welcome Belgian players from all sectors to develop 5G applications, while this technology is expected to be launched in about a year and a half. This will undoubtedly allow companies and start-ups to find a test environment to develop and try new applications based on mobile technologies. As part of my activities in my region, I have seen that the municipalities concerned are facing problems of Internet coverage, both at the level of 3G and 4G. These municipalities, often located in rural areas, have a dense economic fabric but are hampered by this lack of digital coverage. It seems to me, therefore, that these companies are losing a certain economic advantage. Minister, the question is quite simple. It is of importance and vital interest to my region. I would like to re-examine with you the state of digital coverage in my region. What are the recommendations for better coverage of the network? In addition to the test environment in Hasselt, is it possible to develop such infrastructure elsewhere in Belgium? In my opinion, it would be very useful to do a second phase of testing in my area. In this technology there is a great deal of solution to the problem of coverage that we have in rural areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u16	Madam, IBPT's coverage cards indicate that mobile coverage is almost total, in the sense that at least one mobile operator offers a standard reference service outside. The IBPT is making efforts to supplement mobile cards with an indication of the quality of service. In the coming months, I will present, together with Minister Jeholet, the points of action to better cover the white areas. The infrastructure in Hasselt was installed by Eriksson on the Corda Campus to create a 5G test environment to test innovative applications based on 5G technologies. To this end, the initiative holders received a test licence for 5G frequencies. Of course, the IBPT is ready to consider any other application for a test licence. Provided that the requested spectrum is available, such licences will in principle also be granted. If interested parties present themselves to set up a 5G test environment in the German-speaking Community, the project in Hasselt could also continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u17	That would obviously be beautiful, Minister. I know you care about my region; I bore you enough for that. I also know that the Walloon Region has a particular interest in addressing the problem of digitalisation in white areas, including for economic needs, of industrialization needs. As a matter of fact, my area is entirely a white area. Adequate solutions must therefore be found. If there is a possibility of solving the problem of coverage, we must try it. And honestly, minister, I think that would be the solution to be developed, which would require the least amount of work and would cost less infrastructure. So I can only encourage you to go in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u18	Madam President, Minister, I would like to take stock with you of a specific problem relating to Proximus' offers and, in particular, those made to my German-speaking fellow citizens. Although the Proximus website has been partially translated into German, important information on the offer, service and management of the private account is not yet available in German. Having customers is important. If they are considered negligible, this is another subject!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u19	If a German-speaking client wishes to deepen his research, he is redirected to the Dutch, French or even English version. However, as the state holds a majority of the shares of this telecommunications company, I am hopeful that the information on the Proximus website will soon be available in the third national language of the country, namely in German. Minister, are you aware of this situation? Have you ever made Proximus aware of this request? If not, what means of persuasion do you have in order to change the situation so that Proximus decides to offer this service?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u20	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, Proximus confirms to me that all the information available on his website is not translated into German. Nevertheless, the company points out that in the name of a well-understood commercial interest, it strives to publish in German the most important information for customers. For example, the digital magazine Shopmag is available online for private customers and professionals and contains a description of the offers and prices of the main products offered to customers, the general conditions of the different products and the call number of the customer service where the customer can obtain all the technical and commercial information necessary in his language. A wide range of promotional information is also available in German at the points of sale located on the territory of the German-speaking Community. It should also be noted that exchanges, within the framework of the contractual relationship, take place in the client's language: letters of confirmation, invoices, technical support, handling of complaints, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u21	Minister, thank you for answering all my questions. This subject was related to my previous question. Indeed, if the supply, particularly that of 5G, were a little more developed, there would be more customers and, as a result, Proximus' interest in developing in this region would be stronger. This could change the situation for years to come, given the interest. But let's stay there for the moment, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u22	Minister, in 2017, the European Union announced that it would make around €120 million available to European municipalities so that they could equip their public squares with a Wi-Fi station. The aim is to digitise at least 6 000 European municipalities until 2020. Applications for this European programme have recently been opened – my municipality in Eupen is also a candidate – and, according to my information, the European Commission has even sent the Member States a list of public entities that could be involved in this initiative. Minister, have you promoted WiFi4EU in the Belgian municipalities likely to receive financial assistance from the European Union? Among the public entities, which German-speaking entities on the European Commission's list can apply for WiFi4EU? You will understand, the need to invest in my region is felt and all the incentives are good to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u23	The WiFi4EU project has been closely monitored by my administration since the beginning of 2017. Various communications, through general mailings to the municipalities, have taken place in order to inform them of the project. When the registration portal was finally opened on 20 March 2018 by the European Commission, the following day my administration sent a final communication to all the municipalities in Belgium in order to inform them and send them back to this portal. A specific website has been created. Interested municipalities can consult it to learn more about WiFi4EU. In addition, various messages have been launched via social media such as Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. Communication methods will always be active in the future. Finally, my administration has also responded by e-mail to many individual questions from the municipalities about the WiFi4EU project and has always provided the necessary information. The Commission does not limit the possibility of applying geographically. It is only necessary that the applicant entity does not currently have a hot spot wifi. Any German-speaking entity meeting the above characteristics can therefore be a candidate. Finally, in practice the nine German-speaking municipalities are taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u24	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u25	Minister, in April 2017, Proximus joined the CO2 neutral business club (for 2016), including Spadel, Lotus Bakeries and Le Pain Quotidien. As regards respect for the environment, positive behaviour therefore exists and is applied within certain companies, in accordance with the Paris and Marrakech Agreements (better known as COP21 and COP22). I come back here on one example among others. On 16 November 2017, as part of COP22, more than 100 leaders and investors met with members of governments, civil society and the United Nations as a sign of their commitment and support for the Paris Climate Agreement. It is in this context that the companies Vinçotte and CO2logic created the label "zero emission". This assessment is based on the BSI (British Standards Institution) international CO2 neutrality standard. The label is obtained by calculating the CO2 emissions of a company or product. Residual CO2 emissions must be offset by supporting climate-certified projects. The service is offered not only to industrial and SME enterprises but also to the public authorities. For example, Proximus became carbon neutral for its operations in 2016. In the same year, it managed to reduce emissions by 4% compared to 2015. Over the past six years, its carbon emissions have decreased by 32%. Proximus is thus a good student in the ranks of our public companies. On the other hand, there would still be 70 000 tonnes of CO2 to be offset in the head of bpost, another Belgian public company. Even if the company has recently been awarded the "CO2 neutral mailing" label and a small part of postal shipments are CO2 neutral, bpost could be more ambitious in this area. That's why I wanted to ask you the following questions. What is the bpost carbon balance today? What mass of CO2 should the company compensate for becoming a neutral emitter, a zero-emission company? Has Bpost put in place specific actions to improve its carbon footprint? Does she intend to obtain this label "CO2 Neutral" for the entire group?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u26	Bpost is aware of the impact the company has on the environment. The figure is approximately 69 000 tonnes. By 2020, bpost intends to reduce its carbon emissions by 45% from the level measured in 2007. This ambition exceeds the requirements imposed on the postal sector. It goes without saying that as a postal and logistics company, its car fleet, the largest in the country, is at the heart of the company's environmental challenge. The ambition of bpost is to make the fleet greener through the following actions: the replacement of mopeds with electric bikes and scooters, the development of the pedelec fleet – which allows bpost to offer low-emission delivery in the city centre –, the recording of data and training in eco-driving in order to stimulate environmentally friendly driving. In addition to the operational fleet, there are also company cars. A new management policy introduced in 2017 encourages employees to opt for transport solutions that emit less carbon dioxide. The acquisition of Bubble Post, which contributed to greening the fleet through delivery using bicycles, electric cars and trucks to CNG (compressed natual gas). Another element of bpost's ecological footprint is located in the building park. Its ambition is to minimize this impact through initiatives such as the implementation of certified environmental management systems on strategic sites, the ongoing monitoring of energy consumption and the raising of awareness of energy consumption among staff. It also relies on energy-friendly investments such as new lighting systems, thermal insulation, improved thermal ventilation or air conditioning. In addition to reducing energy consumption, bpost also intends to review the types of energy it uses. Bpost uses 100% green energy and produces more and more electricity itself. In 2017, some 17,000 square metres of solar panels were installed. The installation of a solar photovoltaic power plant on the roof of the Antwerp sorting centre is planned for this year. In 2020, bpost plans to build its own wind turbine. This global approach has earned bpost first place in the ranking of the world's greenest postal companies for the fifth consecutive year. Full carbon neutrality is not on the agenda, as not all customers want to absorb the additional cost associated with carbon neutrality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. Like you, I am delighted that bpost was elected for the fifth consecutive year as the greenest postal company. Bravo to bpost! Of course, there is still one step ahead to move towards total carbon neutrality, as Proximus has done. If the latter has been able to do so, it seems to us that bpost could imitate it, despite the difference between the sectors of activity, especially in terms of logistics. As you know, even if the rate of CO2 emissions cannot be minimized, it is always possible to compensate by financing climate projects in the countries of the South. This seems to me to be a very interesting option. Thank you again for your answer, Minister. There is, of course, still work, but things are moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u28	Minister, last year you announced in your policy paper that an electronic mailbox would be launched as a unique eBox in two versions, one for citizens and one for businesses. You announced that every Belgian and every company would receive an electronic mailbox in the spring of 2018. According to this information, well-known providers such as Zoomit, Doccle and POM would be given the opportunity to cooperate. Still a lot of interactions with the government go through paper correspondence. Last year I filed a bill with the aim that every company can have a unique official digital mailbox for its formal interactions with the government. In the Netherlands, for example, companies have the so-called Message Box, a secure e-mail system between companies and the government. Minister, following on from the information you provided during the discussion of your policy paper, I have the following questions about the electronic mailbox. Can you explain what the electronic mailbox will look like and will function? Which partners will contribute to the development of the electronic mailbox? What is the state of development? You announced that it is not the intention to create a new mailbox, but to integrate the eBox into the current system. Will each company have a unique electronic mailbox or will several electronic mailboxes continue to exist for the interactions with the government? An important aspect is, of course, the security of such an electronic mailbox. Can you explain how this will be secured so that digital documents can be exchanged securely between citizens and government and between companies? Can you also explain the timing? It was stated that the letterbox would be realized in spring 2018. We are now almost May and the project will therefore have to be almost completed. Are there any bottlenecks to be solved? Finally, will an information campaign be launched to inform and inform citizens and businesses about its operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u29	An eBox for citizens and an eBox for businesses will be available from June 2018, allowing public institutions to make their documents available to citizens and businesses in one place, through the applications of commercial partners and through their own web portal. Commercial partners are free in the design of their portal or application and in offering additional value-added services, such as archiving. The eBox model aims to support integration with private partners as easily as possible. There are currently six commercial partners who have signed a non-disclosure agreement and a letter of interest and three other parties have recently shown their interest and are contacted to make further agreements. In September 2017, the first technical specifications were made available to the commercial partners. Since then, they have been working with DG Digital Transformation to integrate their front-end application with government back-end applications. For far advanced partners, a test environment will be made available in May so that they can test the eBox. If the tests go well, the eBox will be available to citizens from June onwards. I note that two of the interested partners, UnifiedPost and POM, are making rapid progress and that some of the others might as well step up. The electronic mailbox will be technically secured by the standard technical components and encryption mechanisms common to the IT market. In addition, we will ask citizens or companies to identify themselves through the tools and identification keys made available by the government, e.g. itsme, eID or tokens. In June, we will launch an information campaign for citizens in the context of "Do digital." The campaign will be intensified in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the positive news. It appears that progress has been made and that the mailbox will be realized in the short term. I think that is a very good thing. A great deal of correspondence is still being sent on paper. This is not always efficient and it is also quite expensive for companies if everything has to be written by registered mail. I'm also glad you're paying attention to security. It is crucial if we are to convince people to use it. It has to be safe. I am also pleased that you will launch an information campaign. That is very important so that no one is left behind. Everyone needs to be convinced to get more on the digital tour. In any case, I have noted that June 2018 is an important time. There will be tests in May. I will certainly continue to follow the issue. I can only support the fine initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u31	Minister, the press tells us that since June 2017, Proximus has listened to telephone conversations on his network without the consent of all concerned. The information has not been denied by Proximus who explains using this specific tool "only for quality problems of certain numbers and only if a client reports a problem and asks for an analysis". The Privacy Commission has already indicated that these acts may well be illegal and therefore punishable. We are currently in the midst of a Facebook scandal and it seems to me important to have clear answers about Proximus' attitude. It was therefore the responsibility of the State to protect the privacy of all. A double liability when the undertaking concerned is public. More worryingly, this practice took place a few months before the entry into force of the new European privacy regulation. Indeed, from 25 May this regulation imposes heavier responsibilities on companies to ensure respect for the privacy of their customers. While it is understandable that some SMEs still find it difficult to grasp all the nuances of this new legislation, it is unacceptable that a large public enterprise, a leading player in new technologies, has been able to adopt such a practice. Especially since Proximus proudly announced on its website that it had not "awaited the approval of this law to prepare its services and those it offers to its customers". Minister, do you confirm that Proximus listened to telephone conversations without the consent of all concerned (when it comes to a client, it is actually a client in conversation with another client who is probably not aware that his contact person has a connection problem)? Has Proximus ceased this practice? Will the persons concerned be informed that their conversations have been listened to and the remedies available to them? Do you think that Proximus is currently ready to meet all the requirements of the new European regulation? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u32	Minister, the framework has just been recalled. I had planned to question you about the news last Thursday in the House but you were not there. Rather than having another minister read your answer, I thought it was more interesting to have the debate here in committee. My colleague has just referred to the context. It is true that there is obviously no need to combine the internal tests conducted by Proximus with a view to implementing the new technology for 4G calls, called VoLTE, and, on the other hand, the quality controls of telephone calls which are carried out at the request of customers, which is different. Proximus, in relation to this, defended itself on the basis of two arguments, firstly by recalling that an exception is provided for in the law and secondly, by saying that it was only at the request of the client and therefore with the authorization of the client. That doesn't convince me. An exception is provided for in the law. That's very clear. At the same time, the whole thing is to know how this law is applied. When Proximus says that it is only at the client's request, the law is equally clear on the secrecy of communications: it requires the permission of all concerned and not just one of the stakeholders. Whether the client calls another Proximus client or the Proximus client calls a correspondent who is not the operator's client, the same law applies. In practice, do you confirm that Proximus listened to telephone conversations without the consent of all concerned? So I'm not just talking about the customers or the client who asks for them, but about all the correspondents whatever they are. Did all of the employees' phone calls involve other employees or people outside the company who had not given their consent? How many clients, employees and interlocutors are involved? How many employees were able to examine these conversations? Listening for the VoLTE test would have ended in February 2018. Do you confirm that? Is this also the case with wiretapping for quality control of calls on fixed lines? Do these quality controls currently persist? Do you confirm that there was a breach of the Privacy Act, if not all correspondents were informed of the listening and had not given their permission? The Privacy Commission took a position on this issue and announced in the middle of last week that they would meet? Did this meeting take place? What follow-up has been given to him? Is there an interpretation problem on the part of Proximus' legal services? Why did Proximus not seek advice from the Privacy Commission in a timely manner on how to enforce the law? Is there a problem with the checks and balances of Proximus' internal organisation? What controls exist over Proximus services that make privacy decisions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u33	Proximus formally denies that its customers' phone calls are being listened to. Following the article published in De Tijd on Tuesday, April 17, Proximus wishes to make a number of clarifications. In accordance with Article 125, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, any operator may take notice of any communication, including telephone communications, where the acts referred to are carried out exclusively for the purpose of verifying the proper functioning of the network and ensuring the proper performance of an electronic communication service. This possibility of derogation from the confidentiality of communications was confirmed by Stefan Veschueren, Vice-President of the Privacy Commission, on Tuesday, on radio stations. Proximus makes only exceptional use of this possibility and uses it only in the case provided for in Article 125. Thus, for fixed lines, based on a clear complaint from a customer and at the customer's request, thirteen lines were examined in 2017. In 2018, there have been three cases to date. These lines have been tested to determine the cause of quality problems. Since mid-2017, a small portion of mobile calls have been made using the latest VoLTE technology. During the test phase, and only for this technology, therefore not for 2G and 3G, the calls were stored temporarily and for a maximum of five days. Some calls from Proximus collaborators were listened to at the request of the latter in order to verify the quality of these calls. This test phase was completed in early February 2018. Since then, no calls have been stored or listened to. Access to the quality control tool is strictly controlled and available only for a very limited number of qualified technicians. The legal framework does not provide any prior information to the IBPT or the Privacy Commission. Following the publication of the article in question, Proximus contacted these two authorities in order to provide all necessary clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer. We still have to understand the emotions of the citizens. We're in the middle of Facebook, which makes a lot of noise. I understand that Proximus can do technical tests, but I think that today it would be prudent to warn when we do this, even if it is not necessary under Article 125, the Privacy Commission and the IBPT; and perhaps also to warn customers to explain to them what a listening and technology test is, so that they are aware, agree and perhaps also warn their interlocutors. Today, with all the new technologies, we often wonder whether we still have private conversations, or whether everything will ever be put in public place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u35	Minister, you take up the exact words and words of Proximus. You're the spokesperson for Proximus. You say the Privacy Commission has confirmed that the law provides for an exception. Yes, I was saying that earlier. But the Privacy Commission has also clarified that all correspondents should be warned if the confidentiality of communications is lifted. Here you still don't answer the real question. Was the client aware of the quality of his line when requesting a quality review? Yes, he had certainly given his consent. But he doesn't speak alone. He's talking to a correspondent. I repeat the real question every time and you don't answer it. Proximus, skilfully, neither. Were the correspondents of these clients informed and had they given their permission? Everyone, like Proximus, avoids answering them. How many correspondents of these clients were listened to? Have they been informed or not? Minister, we need to clarify these points, otherwise all doubts are allowed. I am quite a fan of new technologies, but on the condition that safeguards remain balanced when issues as important as privacy are at stake. I call on you, as the minister in charge, to clarify this point, and I also call on Proximus to do so. If the conversations of the famous customers who had given their permission with correspondents who did not give their permission were actually listened to, the correspondents must be notified. I specifically ask that this practice not be continued. Otherwise, we would be outlawed and find ourselves in a situation that is totally unacceptable to privacy. Either you answer now, or I'll resubmit a question. I want to know whether or not the correspondents of these famous customers, who had given their permission, were informed, and whether or not they had given their permission. Can you answer now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u36	Mrs Fonck, I fully understood your question. There's no need for you to repeat it. Your interpretation seems correct to me. Indeed, in my view, when a test is performed, it is normal to inform all participants. The person who requested it was informed. For my part, I did not get an answer about the user who does not own the line or service. This question is perfectly legitimate. So I'm going to check with Proximus. In short, I find it normal for users to be informed of the progress of a test.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u37	Minister, thank you. I believe that for a week now it is definitely time to clarify this situation. I insist, Minister: it is not just a question of informing a correspondent who is a client of the company. It is all users who must be. Proximus must respect the privacy not only of its customers but also of correspondents in general – regardless of their operator. I thank you in advance for bringing this matter to light quickly. If Proximus does not comply with the rule requiring him to notify each correspondent and then obtain his authorization, then I ask you to stop this practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u38	Mrs Fonck, I still need to clarify something. You said you asked me the question. But on Thursday, I was absent. I received a document stating: "Object: wiretapping - Proximus test out of the legal framework". You're asking me today. I replied that this question was entirely legitimate, but it is the first time you have asked me. Perhaps you have already interviewed one of my colleagues, but I cannot accept that you claim that I did not answer you last week. This is the first time you've told me about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u39	Minister, first of all, you received my question of topicality, which was turned into an oral question, because of your absence. A topical issue is not a novel. Then I'll ask you today. As the minister responsible for the file, you didn't ask yourself about it? That's what concerns me the most, if I can speak to you honestly. It's still about your job and your responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u40	Minister, a new method of remuneration was introduced at the beginning of this year at bpost. It applies to the whole middle and top management. From now on, the variable part of the salary of this part of the staff is in particular conditioned by the short-term absenteeism rate of the workers they cover. Clearly, the more employees and workers in the group will have short absences (maximum one month), the less money their superiors will earn. This so-called "well-being" indicator affects the flexible portion of their wages by 15%. It will be measured globally in the company. As for the objectives set individually for managers at this level, they are confidential according to bpost. If bpost refers to the establishment of a virtuous circle, it is legitimate to question the potential drifts of such a measure. It is indeed difficult not to imagine a manager, stressed because he could earn less, put undue pressure on the staff with whom he is in direct contact. Minister, these concerns lead me to ask you the following questions. What is the general objective pursued by bpost by applying such a measure? Is it about motivating managers, increasing staff productivity, or increasing well-being at work? How will this new measure be framed and how can possible drifts be avoided? Is an evaluation of the measure planned, in relation to the well-being of the teams and staff within bpost?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u41	Bpost considers its employees to be one of its most important assets in achieving the company's strategy. Employee well-being is essential to achieving both financial and qualitative goals. Employee well-being and commitment are monitored through indicators such as absenteeism and client loyalty index. These indicators note that initiatives are needed to improve the well-being of employees both at company level and in their specific environment. In addition, the results of surveys in recent years have shown a clear correlation between commitment, stress level and absenteeism among staff. In order to support and strengthen this policy, the well-being of staff, measured by the rate of short-term absenteeism, will be added from 2018 onwards to the indicators determining the variable remuneration of management.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-24-54-commissie-ic875x.u42	Mr. Minister, thank you, but you are not really responding to what is related to the framework of the measure or its evaluation. The satisfaction surveys of bpost staff in recent years are rather positive and so much the better! In the press, SD Worx called this system unique and said we've never seen it! It is not, however, bad, but it does mean that we are in a system that is clearly new and which, therefore, could potentially have under-estimated biases or impacts that could be negative. At this stage, we have no objectivation, but it is clear, however, that on paper, potential drifts could be imagined. It seems to me important that the framework and the evaluation of this measure be reviewed. Your answer is a little short and I will certainly come back to this later.
