ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u2	I call Mr Laaouej to speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u3	Mr President, let me be astonished to note that a topical issue on the socio-economic situation – in the context we know, with Carrefour – which was initially addressed to the Prime Minister, was finally reoriented to the Minister of Employment. I just have to remind you that, two weeks ago, questions that related exactly to the same subject and that were asked by members of the majority were also addressed to the Prime Minister, who had answered it himself – without referring to Mr Peeters or other ministers. This had enabled him, moreover, to reiterate his slogan, which is now seen to be so unsubstantiated and relevant: "Jobs!, Jobs! Jobs!" Still, he had responded in person. What do we learn today? He was asked a question about the same object, but he referred to Mr. Peeters. What does that mean? The Prime Minister, who has nevertheless received the unions and who regularly boasts – which we are obviously questioning – of a good economic record, does not want to answer questions about the socio-economic situation in general and about Carrefour in particular. I consider this attitude to be a disdain for Carrefour workers and trade union organisations, but also for parliamentary representation. That is not acceptable, Mr. President! I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u4	Mr President, if, at the outset, I can satisfy Ahmed Laaouej, I am prepared to answer the question, as well as Kris Peeters. I didn't know a transfer had been decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u5	Mr. President, of which act. My colleague Frédéric Daerden's question will therefore be addressed to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u6	I propose that you address the two ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u7	We also expect answers from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u8	Of course, this also applies to the other questions. Not only Mr Daerden's question, but also those of Mr Daerden. Van der Donckt, Gilkinet and Van Hees address the Prime Minister. It seems to me the logic itself. In such cases, my course of action is always the same: when there is reason to believe that there is a problem within the government, the Prime Minister is addressed. Otherwise, we'll talk to the competent minister. Having said that, I am pleased that we have found a solution that satisfies all those concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to congratulate you on the courage you have shown to be the first European government leader to travel to Moscow and to be in contact with not only the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation but also the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin. That shows political courage. After all, you are the first to break the ban around the Russian Federation and make it clear that this is a signal to the rest of Europe and, on the occasion of the famous Kremlin list, perhaps also on a country on the other side of the Atlantic, namely the United States of America, that Europe is not being threatened and that good relations with Russia, which is more an ally than an enemy, are important to our country and hopefully also for the rest of Europe. Of course, the content of your conversation with the Russian President, Vladimir Putin, about which you have not told much and on which the Kremlin communicates very little. You had two and a half hours to speak to the Russian leader. I hope that during that meeting you also discussed the EU sanctions that have been affecting Russia and our country for four years now. The sanctions have been followed by a boycott which has resulted in almost one third of the total trade we are trading with Russia being lost. This applies to the fruit and vegetable sector, the computer industry and the arms industry in our country. It is a turnover of almost EUR 3 billion per year that falls. I hope you questioned the sanctions. I also hope that you will urge your European colleagues, the European institutions and the European Commission to put an end to these disastrous sanctions by the European Union against Russia and its boycott. Mr President, I will conclude. In future, let us look to Russia rather than Washington when it comes to defending our European and our Flemish and Walloon interests. Putin is an ally and not an enemy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, in recent days you have been in cold Moscow, because you want to revive the dialogue between the European Union and Russia. You met President Putin and Prime Minister Medvedev. By doing so, you prove that you remembered Pierre Harmel's lesson well. In our foreign policy with Russia, we must pursue dialogue, on the one hand, but also deterring it, on the other. Scaring it off is effective. Belgium puts its money in the bag. Just think of our participation in the Baltic Air Police operation over the Baltic States, our wider loyal role in NATO and, recently, our F-16s intercepting two Russian bombers over the North Sea. In addition, there are geopolitical tensions, such as Russia's occupation of Crimea, the situation in eastern Ukraine, the evidence of Russian interference in Western elections and the latent pressure exerted by Russia in and around the Baltic states by organising military activities and regularly violating airspace. Indeed, it seems appropriate to insert some detente. The economic sanctions imposed by the European Union are a result of Russia's geopolitical decisions and actions. However, we also have common interests, such as energy, security and the fight against terrorism. Europe has Russia as its great neighbour, and it would be foolish and dangerous not to engage in dialogue with it. Prime Minister, what matters have you discussed with the Prime Minister and with the President of Russia? Have you made it clear to them that the European sanctions against Russia will continue to apply until the Minsk agreements have been complied with? What themes do you think can still be crystallized with Russia? Also not insignificant for the near future, is it possible to know whether you have asked the Russians not to interfere with our elections in October and next year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have indeed had the opportunity to visit Russia. I believe that the European Council speaks too much about Russia but too little about Russia. If we choose a strategy, such as the Harmel doctrine, of sanctions to make it clear that Ukraine's integrity is important to us, then an open and wider political dialogue is also particularly important. That's why I felt it was necessary to visit Russia. We have had the opportunity to have clear and strong discussions about our economic relations. Even after the sanctions, there are many investments, Belgian investments in Russia and Russian investments in Belgium. You have given examples in the energy sector and in the pharmaceutical sector. Economic relations with Russia exist in many other areas. A Joint Committee will be held on 14 February in order to be able to go into more detail. Our Foreign Minister will be there as well. That is for item one, economic and bilateral relations between Belgium and Russia. Secondly, the European Union's strategy. We have indeed had the opportunity to see more clearly where perhaps mixed intentions can be determined. Let me give you two examples. The European Union and Russia certainly have a draft to discuss Europe's borders. This is a delicate issue that requires greater clarity and stability, in the interests of everyone, the European Union and certainly Belgium. We also have other designs with Russia. In the south of Europe, the role of Russia with other countries, with Libya, with Syria, with Iran, the strategy with China, these are the points on which we need to have a dialogue. Not so that we could agree on everything, no, there are differences and conflicts on a number of points between Russia and the European Union. I therefore call for a stronger European pillar in NATO. That is also a way of determining our own strategy, our own future. This requires a dialogue with our neighbouring countries, not a naive dialogue, but a dialogue without taboos, including on democracy, including on human rights, including on European values. You understand, I intend to do everything in my power to put our country in the cockpit of the European Union. This means that a broad dialogue, the possibility of holding discussions is crucial.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, I can give you my full support when you say that dialogue is necessary in order to achieve progress. That is exactly what we need, a rapprochement with Russia and the Russian Federation. The fact that you are taking this step is important and hopefully an example for other European leaders. Above all, let us not forget that these sanctions are now counterproductive for our own economy and that they are mainly cutting our own meat instead of Russian meat. The fact that these sanctions have made very little impression has proved to be true in recent years. Just this, Prime Minister. It is not just about the counterproductive story for our economy when we are arguing against these sanctions and have also tabled a resolution on this issue. These sanctions are also unfair to Russia and are contrary to international law. In this respect, too, the debate must be able to take root. The first step has been taken, and at least we are very satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u13	Prime Minister, you certainly broke the ice in cold Moscow. We are pleased that 50 years after Pierre Harmel you take the lead and we are back in the cockpit. We have seen the Prime Minister in Russia, but we have also seen Mr Dewinter on TV in Russia. He's gone flat on the belly. Anyone who can read or write a little Russian has seen how he declared there that all economic sanctions will soon be lifted, because nobody in Europe still supports them. That is, of course, untrue and everyone can see right through that strategy. Everyone knows that the Russians have had an influence on the election results and everyone knows that the Russians support parties such as the Flemish Interest or FN or other "Wilder parties." The Russians even paid for your trip to Syria to go on coffee with President Assad, Mr Dewinter. Extremes touch each other [[.]] I also expected the PTB here, because the PTB is nowadays the same as the Flemish Interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the examination of the bill of 7 December 2017, presented by the Secretary of State, Theo Francken, we have heard several civil society actors this Tuesday in the Committee on the Interior. Some Commissioners were able to ask questions, but the debate did not take place. It was on the agenda of Wednesday's Committee of the Interior, which was cancelled. In the meantime, as a result of these hearings, we were able to read that a party of your majority, yours in this case, was no longer unanimous on the substance of the bill. We also read that you are going to take over and consult, almost bilaterally, your colleagues from the majority and from the party to "fall the pressure". I am surprised by this practice and that the democratic debate did not take place in committee. Either you are simply announcing the withdrawal of this bill, which is, we must admit, a huge gap, or you are letting the committee debate it and, possibly, a number of amendments can be made to it. In addition, it can be seen that various communal councils vote on citizenship motions, they say, motions to recognize cities and municipalities as very hospitable towards migrants. This momentum of solidarity can be understood. On the other hand, it becomes more dangerous when these same motions call for police areas to completely close their eyes on the illegal stay, which, let us recall, is an offence. You admit that this is almost discrimination against the rest of the population for whom the police do not completely close their eyes, quite the contrary! Prime Minister, it is urgent to take your responsibilities in this area, because emotion is busy taking over reason. What follow-up and future do you intend to give to this bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u15	Mr. Speaker, Prime Minister, it is true that the debate related to the consideration of this bill has grown to an extent that you could not have suspected or that you might have been able to assess by listening, from the very beginning, to certain authorities warning you. Rarely has such a mobilization been made in academic circles, in academic circles, in constitutional law professors and in magistrates, in various places of debate, to warn the government and invite it to perhaps give itself time for reflection. I do not come here to say that you were wrong, for example, to cancel yesterday's committee meeting. If it is to have the time to reflect on a bill that is more respectful of our constitutional order, of the Constitution, and more respectful of fundamental freedoms, I am willing to give you time and certainly not to come up with an unnecessary controversy, as long as you take the measure of the unconstitutionality of this bill. I would like to return to some of the essential elements. It now seems obvious that the bill is more than legal. It is without constitutional basis because it is not within the competence of the investigating judge to assist in the execution of administrative police measures. There is a clear distinction to make. Therefore, the investigating judge does not have to intervene in the administrative arrest procedures of illegal foreign nationals. It is also clear that it is not proportionate to require a home visit to a third party that houses an alien even though he or she is illegal for the purpose of attempting to arrest that person, as it is clearly stated in the explanatory memorandum that the measure of the home visit is aimed at the arrest of the person residing illegally. It was Ms Schepmans who said that, in the end, this is not the priority, that there are many other possibilities of intervention for the police to check identity and possibly to make an administrative arrest of foreigners residing illegally. Prime Minister, I ask you one thing: not cosmetic reform of this bill, but substantive work. At this crucial moment, I say quite frankly that if you open the door to a dialogue with all the Democrats, with all those who want a peaceful solution in this matter, respecting the law – in other words, when there is an illegal stay, there is no need to allow it – but also respecting the way in which the individual rights of the persons concerned are enforced, you will certainly have a favourable response from a large part of the opposition. On the other hand, if you continue to work obstinately and hard for an unconstitutional law, unfortunately society will continue to stand up against your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u16	Mr. Speaker, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government's bill has already gone through a lot of ink. On Tuesday, he was the subject of very strong criticism, without ambiguity, from all the actors who were interviewed in the Committee on the Interior, in which the members of the Committee on Justice also participated. The investigating judges denounce this project, which confuses administrative sanctions with criminal proceedings. Bar associations also denounce this project. They even go very far since they already say that they will file an appeal before the Constitutional Court, if the bill were to be adopted. Public opinion, political scientists, constitutionalists denounce the project in the press, highlighting the disproportionate violations of individual rights and freedoms, not only of migrants, but also of all our compatriots. The representatives of the police officers we have heard in committee say that they do not need such a broad project. And in the ranks of your party, the MR, voices rise today to say that it goes too far, that it is dangerous. I would also like to pay tribute here to the militants and elected members of the MR who were courageous during this week. This Tuesday, we learn that you're going to take "discreet contacts to lower the pressure." To regard as "pressure", the mere expression of civil society in parliament, I find it a little special. It is also true in the head of the government and the two ministers, since it is on the insistence of the opposition that we have obtained the hearings of magistrates, lawyers, associations that defend human rights. Your government has since obtained the postponement of the proceedings in the House. Jurists heard on Tuesday explain that the text is not amendable. It is not to lower the pressure that must be raised, but to remove this text of which no actor wants, perhaps apart from the N-VA. My question is simple, Prime Minister: will you hear the message from civil society and the opposition?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, while you were in Russia – "paradis des droits humains", if I may say so – the Members were in the House, listening to a whole series of "engaged" citizens – a little bit more or a little less – magistrates, lawyers. All these people literally "burned", as some colleagues have said, the text in question, called "home visits" by the majority, and which the actors on the ground do not hesitate to call "perquisitions". Fortunately, here, unlike Russia, there are tens of thousands of committed citizens hosting migrants in transit at Maximilian Park. They are afraid of your bill! Fortunately, here, unlike Russia, there are associations, from the Church to the Masonic lodges, which rightly stand up against this unconstitutional bill. Fortunately, here, unlike Russia, there are MPs and a governor, sometimes liberal, who are extremely brave and fighting against this unjust bill. Thank them for that! And fortunately, here, unlike Russia, there are courts, starting with the most important of them, the Court of Cassation, which has just told your Secretary of State and your government that they were wrong to return Sudanese migrants to the claws of their dictator. In Belgium, it is these actors and not your government that make us in the rule of law. This bill is therefore not amendable. My question is simple: are you going to bury him?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u18	Prime Minister, allow me to paraphrase the poet Niemöller to describe the current very serious situation in Belgium: "When they came to look for Abu, I did not say anything; I was not a refugee. When they came to pick up Hervé and Catherine, I didn't say anything; I wasn't hosting migrants. When they came to pick up Nathalie, I didn't say anything; I wasn't a unionist. When they came for me, there was no one to protest." Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a law of freedom, the PTB is not the only party to say so. We have had the opportunity, in committee, to hear from actors on the ground, experts and investigating judges. What did they say for 24 hours? That this law was a real danger to our rights, to our democracy. When asked whether there was a distinction between home visits and searches, investigating judges told us: "No! In practice, it will be the same." In practice, the police will be able to come in and investigate everything: examine the walls, look at the lingerie, everything in the closets. On the question of whether there was an infringement of democratic rights, the investigating judges replied in the affirmative, stating that there was still a danger in this regard. To the question of whether small reforms were enough to make this law more democratic, the investigating judges replied in the negative. They have clearly said that there are now minor changes on the left and right but that one day we will wake up and see that fundamental rights are no longer guaranteed in our country. That is the message given to us today by the actors in the field and the investigating judges. Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights is also clear: the inviolability of the home must be guaranteed, unless there is a threat to national security. Do you think that national security is in danger today? That's not true! Minister, we have seen the mobilization of the actors on the ground and the communal councils. It is with great pleasure that the City of Liège voted this motion on Monday. It was also courageously voted by representatives of the MR. Are you going to withdraw this law or make it only at the margin? I would like an answer to that specific question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u19	Mr Prime Minister, we have indeed held a discussion in committee on residence and we have to note that after the hearings with the investigators, the police, the NGOs and the bar, the committee meetings have been suspended. What have we learned? I'll say it in plain human language, because I'm not a lawyer. Firstly, entry into residence is a good word for a real search, in which the private residence and the privacy of third parties living there are not respected. Secondly, an investigating judge is called in, but he or she is not allowed to investigate by law. He or she can only stamp. However, I thought the stamp money had already been abolished. Thirdly, if the DVZ and the police invade persons they want to arrest because they do not have residence papers and/or have received an expulsion order, that is unconstitutional, even if it is written that the persons concerned have gone along voluntarily and whistlingly. We do not have any regulation for such a situation. For the sake of clarity, sp.a is requesting party for a legal and quality regulation, a humane legislation and a proactive policy with proactive actions. So stop tatering and messing around. That doesn't make us any better than Sudan's history, which is completely screwed up. In short, Prime Minister, you will return to your favourite role as a top fixer. But don't forget our good advice, Prime Minister, just call Antwerp! My only question is what your plan is and how do you undo the suspension?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, anyone who considers the rule of law to be important and who wants a reasonable asylum policy can only be satisfied that the draft law of Theo Francken and Koen Nonees has been removed in its present form. The opposition has worked in this house, but also outside Parliament, with civil society. It is not a question of the left or right, Prime Minister. It is not about progressive or conservative, but about our standards and values, about our rule of law. Return is certainly necessary, but not by lightly jumping with searches. As Belgians and Europeans, we attach great importance to the rule of law. Basically, we don't use the blunt axe to make searches. In principle, we do not send people back if they are at risk of being tortured. In principle, we do not lock up children, just because their parents are not legally resident here. What are those principles worth with Secretary of State Francken on Asylum and Migration? He's exaggerating... this isn't reasonable anymore. I would like to ask you once again, Prime Minister, to sit around the table with him and determine together what can and cannot be done about asylum and migration, because in Parliament we hear other voices. I would like to express my thanks to the MPs of the majority, of the Open Vld and the MR who rose last Tuesday, who raised the alarm internally and did not want to support the draft. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the method of the government, Prime Minister. Research judges are indispensable in the relevant draft law. Theo Francken needs the investigators for what he wanted to do. How then is it possible that they will not be heard before the government brings the bill to Parliament? Why is it necessary for Parliament to organise a hearing, for us to receive nine negative opinions, including those of the investigators who gave a clear negative opinion and did not agree. So I do not think it is normal legislative work. I would ask the government to improve its homework in the future and to listen more to the opinions of experts directly involved in legislative work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u21	Colleagues, I agree with a point raised by several speakers that the subject under discussion is very directly related to our understanding of the rule of law. It is indeed the role of parliament, the majority and the opposition, to ask one another permanently how one can draw step by step a legal framework in conformity with the Constitution and which meets the requirements of the rule of law. But within the framework of the rule of law, there is also, for my part, an important subject: to be able to identify the people present on our soil. It is a matter of both public order and security. In this context, we are confronted with several types of situations through this spontaneously generous accommodation of families that have manifested themselves. First of all, in many cases, they are people who do not wish to apply for asylum. This is a reality that we are facing today, and we have regularly debated it in this House. Secondly, they may be persons who have applied for asylum, who have exhausted the various remedies and who have been rejected and who are therefore no longer on our soil on a regular basis. That is what is at stake today. There is a European directive that encourages European countries to pursue an efficient return policy. It is indeed the government's intention to achieve an efficient return policy. We must always ensure a delicate balance between human action, on the one hand, and clarity about the implementation of the regulation and the principle of return, on the other. In the context of this text, which has been introduced, I would like to recall a few elements, trying to bring serenity and rationality back into this debate. The first point is that some people are quick to say that this draft is contrary to the Constitution. The Council of State did not see that. The Council of State made two observations, which were largely taken into account in the text which, in the end, was submitted to Parliament. But I do hear comments on this issue, from the administrative and judicial order. I am listening to these remarks, which were initially made by investigating judges. Second, this measure is only considered when all other options have been tried and failed, in order to allow for an effective return. Thirdly, the Government, using the investigating judges in the proceedings, sought to provide an additional guarantee. We note, among the opinions given, that the investigating judges themselves have comments to make on this subject. That is why I, as Prime Minister, want to take some time for consultation in order to better understand the delicate nature of the legal principles and the principles of the rule of law at stake. On that basis, I want to be able to assume my responsibilities and report not only to the government, but also to Parliament. That is what democracy and parliamentary debate require, and it is also a desire to translate a form of respect for Parliament. Finally, there is a supplementary point, because there are incomprehensions, whether deliberate or not, that this current legislation does not in any way call into question section 77 of the 1980 Act, which makes it very clear that in the case of humanitarian accommodation there is no criminal risk. There is no ambiguity, I want to say it solemnly because ambiguities have been expressed in a number of messages. In conclusion, I wish to assume my responsibility as Prime Minister, which is to be able to guarantee the serenity of a debate. In view of the criticisms, in view of the emotions, of a number of doubts about the interpretations to be given to the text, it seemed useful to me to take a little time to listen actively to the messages and comments that have been expressed. I will draw the conclusions from this by reporting to the government and to Parliament in a calm manner. The objective remains an effective policy that combines humanity and firmness: when people enter the conditions to be welcomed into our home, they must be so in a dignified way and we must mobilize for it. But when they are not in the conditions for acceptance, we must be able to implement an effective return policy. I want to share one last point with you. I heard a lot that if there was no Calais, it was because the citizens were hosting the migrants. It's not true or fair. The reality is that the Fedasil network is able to accompany and welcome all those who apply for asylum. We have the capacity to accommodate those who make such a request. I appeal to those who are here illegally staying: make an application for asylum, so that, in accordance with the rule of law and national and international rules, we can examine whether you are in the conditions to be accepted at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u22	Prime Minister, we need legislation to address the problem of illegals. It's been a long time. There is growing evidence that emotion is adding to the problem. As you said, all procedures have been exhausted. An order to leave the Territory had been issued and it must become effective. We cannot admit that illegals who have to leave our country continue to stay there. I think this is a great injustice. We are talking about legal and illegal, but we do not understand that this illegality becomes somewhat legal. Prime Minister, you're talking about the rule of law. So make this one respect, and legislate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u23	Prime Minister, I see that, after a great deal of certainty that the majority of governments have given in a peremptory way, doubt is emerging and gaining in mind. As a democrat, I am delighted. Indeed, those who dare to question what is not acceptable to our constitutional principles and our international commitments must be heard in a democracy that respects itself. However, I would like to repeat a few points, because you use quick shortcuts when dealing with certain topics. First of all, if the Council of State did not make all the observations that it should have made and that others, among eminent lawyers, have expressed, it may be because of the short period for the consideration of the bill at the initiative of the government – which is becoming a bad habit – as the Council of State itself says. The latter examines only what is strictly necessary in the light of, inter alia, Parliament's powers. Therefore, give more time to the Council of State and to the House, instead of systematically asking for urgency for your bills! Secondly, we should put an end to this simplistic approach, which is legally wrong, according to which either asylum is sought or no legal protection is offered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u24	But I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u25	You keep saying, "If you haven't applied for asylum, you're illegal and you're turned back." This is not the legal principle of the current law or of the national courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u26	I didn't say that! (...): You have to listen carefully!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u27	I listened very well! And that is why, on a regular basis, the courts condemn the government for conditions of expulsion that do not respect our rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u28	Mr President, I will take a few seconds to respond to some of the issues that the Prime Minister has just mentioned. First of all, Prime Minister, you are talking about potential asylum seekers who do not file. With all due respect, you are completely unaware of the file. In this case, there are foreigners who have been ordered to leave the territory and for whom removal is requested. Please, Prime Minister, this is a total ignorance of the file. If you want to talk about asylum seekers, I'm telling you, stop evicting them to Sudan! I was questioning Mr Jambon yesterday. They continue to be expelled to third countries that can still expel them to the Sudan. This is your government! Then I correct again: stop confusing Calais and Brussels! There are 4 or 500 migrants in Brussels. In Calais, closer to England, there are 15,000 people. Stop with that, it doesn't work! Basically, I don't think you understand what's going on in this country. Tens of thousands of Belgians, regardless of their political or philosophical convictions, are now mobilizing to help migrants. It's humanitarian aid. It is regrettable that you do not join the services involved enough! Today, with this bill, Belgians and migrants are afraid: they are worried and afraid, because searches and searches are now possible with such a measure. You have to understand it! Today, the law would allow, on the basis of an administrative decision, to search homes. The speech of the investigating judges is simple: this text cannot be amended. What they ask, and what we also ask – Prime Minister, you are the Prime Minister of the Belgians and the guarantor of democracy – is to withdraw this project and to find, as soon as possible, the path of reason, legality and humanity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u29	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. What is it that this coalition is presenting to Parliament a sloppy bill, which has not been discussed with the actors on the ground, starting with the investigating judges, who find themselves in charge of a new competence? Even with your own agents, Prime Minister, you are facing a bronca in your parliamentary group because this issue does not respect a fundamental right. Not all Liberals follow you. It is not here, as the experts have told us, a question of asylum or migration. This is a fundamental right issue. We are talking about putting in parentheses a constitutional right – the inviolability of the home – for 127 problematic cases. You say that the Council of State has given a positive opinion. As Mr. Maingain said, it is true that he was given back at the rush. They didn't have much time. But in the meantime, according to the experts, a ruling of the Constitutional Court completely annulled a provision of the so-called "mini-investigation" law which corresponds little or no to the same phenomenon as the searches of the home visit. We have to bury this text. Your choice is different, you will try to convince your majority partners, the N-VA, as you tried to convince Mr Putin yesterday to respect human rights. You can't do it. You left to sell apples and pears. You only had plums.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u30	Prime Minister, you started your answer by saying that the hosts were safe, citing section 77. There would be no shortage of criminal charges against them! The investigating judges told us that it was important to know what it meant for a family to see five police officers entering the house who searched everything, into the walls, into the lingerie, to see if there were any documents necessary for the identification of the persons. Who's been here before? These actions are going to scare people. It's bullying. People who give their hearts today to house people should not be afraid of the police. If these people show such solidarity, it is because they are aware of the situation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Western countries bear an important responsibility for the current situation in Africa. Who voted for the bombing of Libya in 2011? Did you really think this wouldn't affect the region? Mr Francken was one of the main supporters. He liked it, Theo Francken. We were going to bomb Libya for a while and everything would be resolved. He was on that committee. What's the outcome today? Total chaos! You have a responsibility in that. That every year 41 billion flows from Africa to Europe through all existing systems is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. We must therefore help all these peoples, but not just bomb them as we do today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, you say that Europe expects us to have an efficient return policy. That's right. However, we must be careful with the word 'efficient'. Efficiency can often lead to inhumane actions. If you read the draft, there are a lot of things that are not in it, then it is even possible to pick up families with children after 9 p.m. and before 5 p.m. and bring them without boo or bah to the closed centres that we have built and which are now open. Once again, without boo or bah. We asked you to clarify this and you replied that this is not the intention. That is quite possible, but that is not in the draft in so many words; it is therefore not clear. I have already asked you a few times in the long run I feel like an old saw to install a follow-up committee for the expansion and removal policy. This committee should be composed of persons of different backgrounds, who, from their knowledge, can give advice to accompany both the Secretary of State and the entire government. So you will come to a much more balanced policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u32	Prime Minister, for the record, everyone in the house is absolutely convinced that proceedings must be brought back. The question is just how far one goes. Breaking into houses with the police in search of sans papers, even breaking into houses of third parties that offer sans papers shelter, is completely exaggerated. That's way out of line. That's not just what we say, but that says just about every expert we've consulted. You have not answered my question as to how you will continue to work fundamentally with your Secretary of State. We stand here almost every week to charge you with incidents that your Secretary of State, a member of your government, is not following our rule of law and is throwing our standards and values at us. Yesterday there was Amnesty International's investigation into the return of the Sudanese. Amnesty International found that Belgium is not following the procedures and that the review of the European Convention on Human Rights is not being conducted in an orderly manner. I am very satisfied with one thing: the majority also vote on it, the resistance starts and they do not accept everything without reason. I hope that this can be the beginning of a broad front across the borders of majority and opposition, in order to protect our standards and values, in order to protect our rule of law. I hope that this will change the tone of the debate and that we will not tolerate anything that comes out of Theo Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u33	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, in a few days, the Renault law will be twenty years old and, to blow the candles, this is again a social tragedy. There are birthdays we'd rather not celebrate. Carrefour has just announced the elimination of more than 1,200 jobs. Today, how can we not think of these workers but also those of Caterpillar, ING, Axa, Blokker, 3M, Truflo Rona and so many others? Thousands of jobs lost in profitable businesses! What did your government do? Absolutely nothing! Worse, when you had to make a decision, you let Caterpillar's workers down on the issue of pre-pensions. Prime Minister, with your policy, with your statements that workers are too expensive and that you must be able to dismiss them more easily, you are fuelling the fires of redundancies! At Carrefour, with your index jump, it is every year six million euros that are taken from workers to be redirected to shareholders, to create jobs. To create jobs? On the other hand, despite this, more than 1,200 jobs are being sacrificed! Since your government's installation, excise duty on beverages has more than tripled. According to Comeos – not the EVI! – 16,000 jobs have been lost in our country! That is the result of your policy! Ministers, it is the workers who create wealth and not the shareholders! It is the workers who must be defended! No one believes in your fine speech anymore. When you pretended to reach out to Carrefour workers, they were not fooled and they immediately denounced your hypocrisy. Today, we need strong actions. You're the head of the government and you have to stop hiding behind the bosses. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, are you going to have the courage to tell your friends bosses that this is enough and that the redundancies are over? Will you do justice to the workers of Carrefour but also Caterpillar and ING, supporting, to prevent this kind of tragedy, our proposals to reform the Renault law, our proposals on the right of alert, our proposals preventing these redundancies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, colleagues, jobs, jobs. This is the slogan written on the body of your government. Two weeks ago, I promised Minister Peeters in the Deliveroo file that I would continue to be the ambiterik. Today I am standing here, albeit in a different context, to live up to my promise. I am not directly addressing you here, Mr Peeters, but I am addressing the opposition in this hemisphere. I stand here out of sheer irritation, annoyance and indignation at the way in which the opposition, whether through a trade union or not, fights government policy. This is done on the basis of half-truths and lies. In this way people deceive and lie to the people. I took a look at Terbez yesterday and I heard Mr Crombez there. He made it particularly furry. He said, among other things, I quote: 'In large parts of the population, false expectations are created in the context of unmistakable economic growth'. He also said: "Prices continue to rise, wages do not rise. A large majority of the population does not benefit from the growth in our country and the jobs created are mini-jobs or inferior jobs." Prime Minister, I am based, among other things, on information from the National Bank, the OECD and the High Council for Employment in order to say that both entrepreneurial and consumer confidence is historically high, thanks to significantly lower job security. Consumer prices have fallen relatively sharply and are even expected to be at European level in 2019. There is indeed a positive effect of the tax shift on wages and mainly on lower net disposable wages. The average job creation in recent years has been 52 000 jobs per year. This hasn't been that high in the last few decades. 47 percent of these are for the low skilled and 70 percent are for non-subsidised jobs. Prime Minister, who is right in this, Mr Crombez or myself? I look forward to your judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u35	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, while you were in Davos last Thursday, we learned at the sitting about Carrefour Belgium's desire to remove 1,233 jobs. Since then, additional information has come to us. We have confirmation that the group is currently profitable, that it is receiving substantial public support and that it is firing to prevent potential losses in 2020. Workers are therefore the variable for adjusting the company's dividends. Carrefour's management has just communicated its desire to extend the self scan, it is a form of cynicism towards workers and families who wonder what their future will be done. We have also received confirmation that Carrefour has been using student work extensively, particularly since the expansion of opportunities for student work, and intends to use flexi-jobs, which you have extended to the distribution sector and pensioners. The bad job chases the good! I would like to know what you have done since Thursday in the Carrefour file and what you are committed to doing tomorrow to preserve employment. Mr Peeters, have you had contact with the workers' and employers' representatives? What are the commitments of employers' representatives to try to limit the social breakdown and to accompany workers through retraining units that would be financed by the employer? Can you commit yourself so that workers who would be under the conditions of the law and collective agreements on pre-pension can have access to it? Mr. Van Overtveldt said that the law should not be enforced if it was applied. Mr Prime Minister, can we have a clear commitment on the part of the government to the future of employment in Belgium, to an amendment to the Renault law, to be able to prevent redundancies more effectively, and to modify the aid mechanisms for companies, to be conditioned on the maintenance and development of employment and to stop unconditional gifts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u36	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, let us not be mistaken about this: Carrefour's restructuring plan is a global attack on workers! This is first of all a frontal attack on employment, with 1,233 jobs threatened in hypermarkets and at the company's headquarters. If this plan passes, there will be job losses in all hypermarkets, not only in the two that close, nor in the four that are reduced. It is, then, a complete versatility, a total deregulation of labour regulations, which is based in particular on your own deregulation of labour at the level of legislation, and which would cost 513 jobs in the case of Carrefour. It is also an attack on workers on opening hours since we are talking about opening stores earlier, closing them later, working on Sundays. And finally, it is an attack on wages; indeed, if supermarkets question the model of trading today, it is above all the collective labour agreement, where wages are the highest, even if they remain very low, which is targeted. It is clear that hypermarkets are also attacked for this strictly wage reason. The whole sector is concerned, as Comeos and your government's finance minister have said. Further restructuring will take place in the short term in the sector. Carrefour is finally the "foot-of-biche" to impose on trade unions what they so far refuse in terms of deregulation of work, work on Sundays and others. We have the impression that for this government to lose his job, it's no big deal. The Minister of Finance says "Oh, there are 300,000 job offers" – by completely betraying the figures! I'm sorry, but the coexistence of high unemployment, in any case in Wallonia, and the fact that some job offers do not find takers, it shows that things are, in fact, much more complicated than they seem. At Carrefour, precisely, after the 2010 restructuring, how many of those who lost their jobs at the time returned to work today? One in two workers! At Delhaize's, it would seem to be even worse! And those who return to work are obviously precarious work, even more poorly paid. What we have is a government that builds precarious work to make poor workers, as there are in Germany. So my questions are as follows. Have you ever done anything to prevent these 1,233 job losses? Do you confirm that Carrefour is going to lay off in hypermarkets but plans, at the same time, to create new supermarkets and Carrefour express antennas? Is it normal for a multinational company that realizes profits and distributes dividends to its shareholders to be able to lay off as Carrefour does? And in connection with the previous question, on the Renault law, is there no need today for a law binding on employers, making it impossible to dismiss stock exchanges? Do you share this view? What is the reason for the current blockade with the unions on a reform of the Renault law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that we can all agree that the announcement of a social plan, with the key to redundancies, is obviously not good news. As is, I suppose, the case of each of the members present here, my first thoughts obviously go to the workers who are worried about their future. That is why, in the hours that followed this announcement, Mr. Peeters and I, together with other government colleagues, called a meeting with management and union representatives. We initiated this meeting because we wanted management to clarify the context in which this announcement was made. In fact, the discussions were intense. Many specific and concrete questions were asked in an attempt to clarify a number of important points. The management said, among other things, that the hypermarkets are problematic in the architecture of the Carrefour Group in Belgium. We understood that a number of these hypermarkets were either in loss now or had potential losses. According to management, these losses would be linked to the requirements of digital transformation and to changes in consumer behaviour, including how consumers view their consumption of non-food products in hypermarkets. Competition from e-commerce sites like Amazon also plays a role. Our message is very clear, we want to do everything we can to minimise the social impact and, in particular, to reduce naked redundancies. That must be the absolute priority and that was our message to management and employees. We have expressed our support to workers and made ourselves available to play a more active role in exerting pressure to reduce social impacts. A quick word on the Renault Act, Mr President. The Renault Act does indeed provide a framework. There are a few comments and comments based on past experience in the implementation of the Renault Act. This government, through Minister Peeters, has taken initiatives recently. He has not waited for the decisions of the last few days to formulate a number of avenues of work, to encourage on a theme which is mainly in the hands of the social partners, how to find a balance in order to improve this Renault law. I hope that, in the context of parliamentary work, the subject will be dealt with in consultation with the social partners. Mr Daerden, I do not want to argue with you or with MM. Hedebouw or Gilkinet, but the results are here. OECD, International Monetary Fund, National Bank, all indicators show that structural reforms have brought 175,000 jobs to the point that the challenge now, in some companies, is to find people who have the training required to take on the tasks and responsibilities. In a word, I am replying to Mr N-VA: it is not John Crombez who is right! It's not John Crombez who's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u38	Now comes the supplement by the Minister of Work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u39	Mr President, it is obvious that this is a social tragedy for all the workers concerned at Carrefour. As the Prime Minister said, last Friday we met with management and trade unions. There it was clearly underlined that the Renault Act should be applied. Now we're in the first phase. I understood yesterday that the dialogue had begun within the company to find a solution. I also think it is important that we contact the regional ministers because they can take the necessary action in a second phase, after the social plan. We are very pleased that the regional ministers also met last week to see what opportunities they have for setting up employment cells very quickly in the second phase in order to get these people back to work. Another element concerning Carrefour. We have also been in contact with our French colleagues to see what is happening in France, to ensure that we do not get Belgium against France, but try to tackle the problem in a coherent way. That will be followed up further. We have proposed to the trade unions and the management to appoint a mediator. They have not responded to this at the moment, but when necessary, we will appoint a mediator. Secondly, as far as the Renault Act is concerned, I would like to stress once again that I have made five proposals which have been explained here in the past. I delivered them to the National Labour Council. The Group of Ten has asked to discuss this on its own. I have stressed that time is running out. The anniversary of the Renault Act is coming up soon, and I will do everything I can to bring this Renault Act into line as soon as possible, but I hope that the opposition will also understand the question of the social partners to look at it further. Finally, we have an agreement with the Group of Ten to look at the digitalisation in our economy and the effects on employment. The interprofessional agreement concluded last year contained a passage on digitisation and the sharing economy and its impact on employment. I asked the Group of Ten to look into that. Mr Van der Donkt keeps his promise to make every week difficult, which is very beautiful. I appreciate that it's not always directed at me. We need to be clear. Many figures show that growth in Belgium has been significantly better over the past ten years than in the euro area as a whole and in neighbouring countries, with the exception of Germany. During the crisis, the resilience of the Belgian economy was greater than in other countries. This means, of course, that now that the economy is revitalising and because we have fallen less deeply, our economic growth of 1.7 percent is slightly lower than the other countries. However, we come from a higher level. Finally, I would like to point out that we announced the following after the Council of Ministers. It was January 12. We got the numbers from ONSS. These figures make it clear that these are qualitative jobs, that the number of part-time jobs has remained stable and that they are more about larger part-time jobs and less about very limited jobs. Finally, we specifically asked about the flexi-jobs at Carrefour, which one of the trade unions mentioned. Well, there wouldn't be any flexi jobs at Carrefour right now. We're gonna need to check it out. We have also understood that it is not the intention to fire workers in order to bring in flexi-jobs. We will follow that very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, I have heard your answers, the figures you have given. You think everything's fine. However, I went to meet the workers of the Carrefour de Liège and the Truck Technic plants in Herstal. I heard their dismay, their feeling of injustice. They do not understand the government's lack of strong reaction, the government's logic, the government's policy, namely, gifts, increased margins for some, precarious jobs, or even no job at all for others, and therefore for them. It is not your statistics resulting from a good economic situation that will feed these families.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u41	Mr President, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you very much for your wise judgment in this matter. This government is indeed the engine of jobs. In the Carrefour dossier, she also proves that once again. Unfortunately, a number of jobs have indeed been lost there, but I trust that the government will do everything in its power to turn that into new job creation. Nevertheless, the figures in a row: 52 000 new jobs per year, of which 20 000 are thanks to this government. 50% of new jobs are filled by low-skilled workers. Unemployment is at pre-crisis levels and there are 300 000 job vacancies in this country. Of course there is still work to be done, otherwise we could of course better stop. The efficacy rate is still a little too low but is rising and that is positive. As a bouncer, the National Bank also predicts that our government debt will be below the magical limit of 100 % by 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u42	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, compassion and self-satisfaction are not sufficient to deal with the situation faced by workers in Carrefour. We expect more from the government. Solutions exist to preserve and create quality jobs. There is a need to further anticipate economic movements, allow workers to train and invest in jobs of the future. It is necessary to stop putting workers in competition with full status and under-status. What you have proposed in terms of flexi-jobs is interesting, but it is not in the law that the majority voted in spite of our criticisms. It is necessary to amend the Renault law so that it can prevent, rather than accompany, dismissals. Employers must assume their responsibilities in the event of difficulties and dismissals, as in France. Above all, public aid must be conditional on clear commitments to create and maintain employment, as Europe demands with the aid it gives to enterprises. It is on these five conditions that your slogan "Jobs, jobs, jobs" will really make sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u43	Prime Minister, I have noted your remarks: "We will try to limit redundancies". Already, you announce that "there will be redundancies", and that "you will try to limit them!" What is clear is that this government has already dropped Carrefour workers. You have decided that these redundancies and job losses will take place. And yet, you multiply the tax gifts, which you will boast to Davos: tax shifts, social contribution reductions, professional discount exemptions, index jumps,... Carrefour received them, like Caterpillar, like Arcelor Mittal. We know the consequences. Close to my home is the Carrefour de Haine-Saint-Pierre, which will not close, but will decrease in size: 68 jobs, more than half, will disappear according to the plan. Do you think these people will return to work overnight with 15 to 20% unemployment in the surrounding municipalities? And if they find a job, it will be a less well paid job, possibly in an express carrefour, since Carrefour wants to create Express and close hypermarkets. This government let the job break, and it itself breaks wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u44	Mr Minister, today, Thursday 1 February, is an ordinary day for most people, but bike messengers will always remember this day as the day they were forced to work as self-employed workers for their employer. With one fingernip, Deliveroo decided that his employees would have to take on the status of self-employed workers from one day to the next. We have asked you several times how this can be done, as Deliveroo remains the client and the bike couriers will deliver meals on behalf of Deliveroo. Deliveroo determines where and when to deliver them. So many indications indicate that they are employees. Yet today they were obliged to become self-employed. You have indicated that you would initiate an investigation. Two weeks ago, you stated in the Chamber that your hands are tied, because in the meantime there is also a judicial investigation, which I understand. However, the problem is already known from October. Mr. Secretary, can we do that? Should we stand idly by and watch? Will you, as Minister of Labour, allow workers to be dumped in a different statute from one day to the next, while there are a lot of counter-indications? When can we expect the results of this study? The bike messengers have been taking action for months. They've gone to a lot of trouble to be heard. The negotiations over the last few days have yielded nothing. Deliveroo has declared unwilling to listen. Of course not, because Deliveroo has already received recognition as a platform. We can almost say that Deliveroo was helped by the government. Deliveroo is in a comfortable position. For those who earn more than EUR 5 000, Deliveroo is no longer obliged to provide. So we are in a situation where bike messengers have to work as self-employed, which has reduced their social protection. Minister, what will you do about this as Minister of Work? When can we expect the results of this study? How are we gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u45	Mr Vice Prime Minister, 84 percent of the bike messengers at Deliveroo are students. There is nothing wrong with students earning a penny at Deliveroo as a bike messenger, only Deliveroo must ensure that there is minimum social protection, because it will only happen to you as a parent to get a phone call late at night stating that your son or daughter in Leuven or Ghent had an accident as a bike courier and that nothing has been arranged. That protection was there until recently, however, because they worked with a student contract and they had a normal, good social protection as a job student. Deliveroo then announced that the bike couriers would become self-employed and, firstly, they would lose their income and, secondly, their social protection would become much more difficult. As Mr Kitir has just said, a discussion has followed. Can they be self-employed or not? You announced an investigation. Deliveroo's ceo said he'd be a part of it. Now, however, it turns out that Deliveroo wants to add a new and much worse chapter. I was very surprised about that. In October, the ceo said that he would not participate in the digital platform of the collaborative economy. A few days ago I read, to my great surprise, that Deliveroo has applied for and received recognition. At first it was said at Deliveroo that what they suggested was the best solution, because there was only 10% tax on the bicycle courier and because there was no administration. However, this makes Deliveroo very out of control because normally job students are exempt from taxes of up to EUR 7 733 but now they have to pay 10% taxes and Deliveroo pushes those people into miserable status without any social protection. That is a really irresponsible attitude. A correct attitude would have been if Deliveroo had waited for the investigation and consulted with you on the minimum level of social protection. Minister, what is the correct state of affairs in this dossier? How will it be ensured that there is minimum social protection for bicycle couriers and other couriers working in the Deliveroo system, so that they are given minimum social protection in all circumstances?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u46	Mr President, Minister, this is not the first time we have discussed the issue of Deliveroo. Three weeks ago, I talked about making it clear that something is going wrong in the sector. It is obvious that, if one looks at the different parameters, the couriers of Deliveroo are not self-employed but fake self-employed. Both the price and where and when these so-called self-employed people have to drive, that is all decided by Deliveroo. So it is quite clear that they are not really self-employed. You also thought that was a problem and you would act through the social inspection. It seemed like your heart leaned towards the side of the Deliveroo couriers, but then I read what you said in Davos and I don't understand. Maybe it was the atmosphere in Davos? You met the Vice-President of Deliveroo, Thea Rogers, and had a discussion with her. When she came out, she spoke of a good meeting with you, the Minister of Work, and said that their position had been strengthened once again. She really liked it: "We are pleased that the government supports us in this." She was really excited. I don't know why, but her perception was that you were driving for Deliveroo. She really liked that. She was also asked to comment on the action of the couriers that was conducted at the offices of Deliveroo on Wednesday. I quote Thea Rogers in French, because she is really enthusiastic: "We are pleased that the minister condemned the acts that were committed yesterday in order to intimidate Deliveroo's staff." It's a strong conviction. I don't know how that's possible, because, in Davos, I've seen a strong condemnation of the Deliveroo workers and I don't feel the commitment you made two or three weeks ago. One might think that this was due to the atmosphere in Davos, the business atmosphere, you probably sat there relaxing with all those businessmen. But they still ask for recognition as a digital platform. So, 10 %, that's what they get. So you're just giving gifts to Deliveroo. Mr. Secretary, will you still do nothing? Will you just stand there and watch? Or will you intervene as Minister of Work? You need to put pressure on that multinational. You need to put that recognition in the fridge. You must not give recognition to that company as long as nothing is happening in that company in the social field.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u47	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the coupeet has fallen for the couriers of Deliveroo who are imposed an independent status, paid in the race and without any social protection. This also means the failure of the social negotiations that were under way. Monday night, the discussions stopped. Unfortunately, we can only see that failure. There is no solution; management maintained its ultimatum of February 1. We regret it. Minister, we cannot resign ourselves to this failure. My group, Ecolo-Groen, for example, has mobilized. We've met the Deliveroo couriers. We met with the unions, the CNE, the CSC and the FGTB. We met with the management of Deliveroo. We have made proposals. We have co-written texts, proposals for collective labour agreements not only for the courier sector but also for the specific company Deliveroo because, yes, solutions exist! And you, Minister, what have you done? What have you done in the last two weeks, since we had this debate here in plenary? At first, you actually supported the movement of couriers for better working conditions. It's a legitimate request. Subsequently, you met with the Vice-President of Deliveroo International in Davos. What about today? Since the end of the negotiations this Monday evening, the workers have not had any contact with your firm. You didn't say anything. Do you still support these legitimate courier requests? Minister, we are formally asking you to act and put in place a mediation to bring all stakeholders back to the table. It's the only way. Your firm needs to be actively involved. We expect strong ambitions from you, Minister, on this issue. Don't disappoint us!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u48	Colleagues, I contacted the CEO of Deliveroo and participated in a meeting with him, the unions and all the people you also contacted. Allow me to be clear about the following, and I hope that everyone can support it: we must seize all the opportunities offered by the new economy, but this must be done without social degradation and with respect for the rules of our social legislation. That is and will remain my guiding principle in the Deliveroo file, in the Uber file and in all other files. The new economy offers opportunities, but social degradation and abuse of our social legislation must be combated and made very clear. I had the opportunity to answer a number of questions last time. Mr Hedebouw, I will also give you what happened in Davos. I'll give you an exact explanation. Firstly, I asked in Davos, since there were also people from Deliveroo there, to have contact on that file. I specifically asked the Vice President of Deliveroo to postpone the decision to switch to the self-employed status on 1 February 2018. Her answer was that according to the legal advice of their lawyers, they are sure that they are correctly applying the legislation in Belgium. For example, the lady also referred to France, where the self-employed status is also applied. I have therefore replicated the fact that, should Deliveroo do so, the social inspection and the labour auditors will come back to that in a moment, I will look into whether this decision is a misuse of social legislation in Belgium. I said this will happen if the company doesn't wait for the investigation and the verdict. Secondly, I have also pointed out that the occupation of the company's offices is not the right way to negotiate. I also indicated that I disapprove of the occupation of a Deliveroo office. I have also shown my willingness to send a mediator to resolve the conflict. Mr Vanden Burre, we have sent a mediator. He has tried for the first time to get out of the impasse. I will continue to support the mediator to ensure that the conflict is dealt with properly. I also regret that, firstly, the company has not waited and, secondly, that, as Mrs Kitir has stressed, has now completely switched to the self-employed status from 1 January 2018. I hope, however, that this will be finalized as soon as possible, as I announced last time, a meeting took place yesterday with the social inspection and with the labour auditors, in order to agree on the timing and on who would do what. I called for the dossier to be finalised as soon as possible, after which we can take clear action on this matter. It is an unfortunate coincidence that the platform was now recognised. By the way, we do not need to recognise sharing platforms, which is done in accordance with the legislation that came into force last year. It is clear that the favourable tax regime enjoyed by such a sharing platform can only be applied to those who are not professionals. In other words, for those who were employees until yesterday and now have to switch to the self-employed status, the question is still very pertinent whether the conversion is in accordance with social legislation and whether they are not false self-employed, in reality workers. Finally, I would like to reiterate what I said earlier. There are the delive rose and the ubers, and I fear that many of those companies will be added. I want to establish a clear framework for the digitisation of our economy in view of the impact on employment. I have once again invited the social partners to this. Yesterday, for example, I had discussions with the employers in the distribution sector. I will do the same with the trade unions in the distribution sector, in order to clarify how they want and can operate in the light of this. If the consultation did not lead to results, I will make my own decisions. I had very interesting contacts in Davos, Mr Hedebouw, with my Danish colleague, for example. It told me that Denmark, in a tripartite context, i.e. employees, employers and government, has developed a clear vision of the digitisation of the economy and its impact on employment. I would very much like to achieve the same thing in Belgium, where, in agreement with the social partners, we can resolve a number of things preventively and, if necessary, make our social legislation comply with through the inspection. Whether it's Deliveroo or Uber or what comes next, we need to know very well that we have to respect our social legislation. I will consult our social inspection every time, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u49	Minister, of course everyone agrees that the new economy offers opportunities that should not be stopped. However, I also believe that everyone agrees that this new economy must not lead to new uncertainties, new vulnerabilities. That's what's happening right now. I'd like to hear you say that you've invited and met those responsible. They have said to you that they have legal advice, are sure of their piece and therefore continue. I expect the same from you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u50	The Social Inspectorate...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u51	Then what's the timing? From October we will question you on this and from October you will say that you will accept your responsibility and send out the inspection services. Two weeks ago, you said that we should not expect you to violate the separation of powers. I respect that, of course, but you cannot keep saying here that you will put your inspection services to work and that you cannot do anything. Since October, we've been putting this on the table. You were with those people yesterday, with the employment auditors. You did not answer today the question of the timing of the investigation, Minister. Can you at least answer that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u52	No, Mr. Kitir...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u53	It is up to the Minister to decide whether to reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u54	That is not true, but if the Minister can give factual information in a sense, he will now have the floor, but we are not going to reopen the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u55	I can be very short. I have insisted on doing so as soon as possible, but it is difficult for me to organise the inspection myself. This must be done in accordance with the rules to be followed by the inspection and the hearing officer. I can't conduct the investigation myself on the spot. The hand clap of the moment is not justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u56	Minister, from October we hear that you will be conducting the investigation as soon as possible. It's February 1st today. We will question you again at the end of February. In my view, that's as soon as possible. From October to the end of February is enough. I hope that you will then have the result in your hands, so that you, as Minister of Work, are much stronger in your shoes. I particularly hope that we will give social protection to those people, because today they are working without social protection. We must prevent this at all times. You have had enough time to take preventive measures, but you have not done so, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We must, of course, wait for the results of the investigation. You do not have that in your hands, but at least you have our support in achieving a good regulation that respects the social rules. However, it remains a thorny issue that in digital platforms there is no provision for minimum social protection for duty-free work. This applies not only to Deliveroo but to any company that wants people to work under this system. I therefore urge that there should be real consultation to achieve a proper settlement with Deliveroo, as well as with other companies wishing to work under the duty-free supplement system. This scheme will serve as a reference for the future. This is really a crucial file. We must bring it to a successful conclusion, with respect for the social rules in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u58	You said in Davos, Minister, that this must not happen. But then she came out and said, "The government supports us." I must say that the perception in that meeting was apparently quite different. Thea Rogers, of course, relies on the facts she sees. She sees there's no problem with her going on like this. Deliveroo even gets recognition as a digital platform. Minister, I do not know if these multinationals listened to you there in Davos, but if you do not force them, they will do nothing. Social inspection's been waiting three months. How is that possible? It cannot be so difficult simply to ask two or three couriers whether they are dependent or not and how much they are paid. How long should that take? Should it take three months to prove whether the 2006 law is applicable today or not? That's crazy, isn't it, Minister? The question of a debate on digitalisation has already arisen. When we moved from crafts to large industries, we asked ourselves exactly the same question: did the artisans have to give their wages or not by going to work in the big industry? Fortunately, at that time the forces of social change did not say: "It is normal. We're losing technical capabilities as we're going to work in a big factory, so it's normal for us to earn less and work more hours." No! A new technology is not neutral. Either it helps the boss to earn more money or it helps people to live better. This debate took place during industrialization and the first industrial revolution. We have it today with digitalization. We have to fight this fight. If you are a social minister, you must also lead him. Digitalization must help people, not make more use of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear inspections are under way. It would be interesting to have a timetable. You have been telling us for several months that they are in progress and that you would like them to end as soon as possible. You did a mediation. Since Monday night, there are no more negotiations. Send back the mediator, let's go! The parties must be forced to return to the table. You're the Minister of Economy. I'd like to do it with you if you want to: aIl let's do it! It is a question of political will. We cannot stand by and see that the negotiations have failed. You regret that fact. I'm not saying that you're still with your arms crossed, but let's be proactive in this case! You have indicated your good intentions. I think it's time to put them into practice. There's an emergency. It's February 1st. As you said, you asked for a postponement. It didn't happen. Let's do it! You are Minister of Economy and I'm sure you have levers that unfortunately I don't have to bring the parties back to the table, in the medium term. The opportunities offered by the new economy and the digital transition will create enormous opportunities for society as a whole. But they must also create sustainable jobs, with working conditions of the twenty-first century. That's what's at stake. We do not question the relevance of new economic models, but the social relevance and job creation generated by certain models today. That's the major issue. We agree to reflect together on a framework capable of integrating these new models and challenges. These will grow exponentially in our society, so let's work on it now!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u60	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the feasible and manageable labour law, which we passed a little over a year ago, allows workers to choose days off or overtime when they consider it most appropriate. Of course, some beacons have been set. Firstly, the will of both workers and employers is required. In addition, the use of statutory leave is prohibited. Finally, the decision must be endorsed either by a sectoral CLC or by a CLC concluded within the undertaking. I continue to be excited by the idea of allowing the worker the freedom to reorient his career, whether he wants to train, retire or devote himself to his family. Unfortunately, despite the additional six months you granted them, the social partners – who were to implement the measure – did not reach an agreement. I can only regret the extremely conservative position taken by the trade unions in view, because it has a negative impact on workers who cannot use this opportunity, but also on SMEs and TPEs. Without a consultative body, the measure of the career savings account cannot take effect. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you had planned a royal order to clarify the final terms of the arrangement. Is he ready? If so, what is the timing? Secondly, is an amendment to the Rules of Procedure possible with the aim of introducing this mechanism in SMEs? Finally, you planned an evaluation after a year. Could you consider leading it quickly? In this way, we would know which companies have joined the scheme and which have not yet been able to use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u61	Mr President, Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, I share your view that it is regrettable that the social partners have not been able to conclude a collective agreement on this subject. We have given them six months to find a solution, but unfortunately no agreement has been reached either within the Group of 10 or within the National Labour Council. Indeed, we are currently in a first phase of six months to reach agreement on a sector-by-sector basis. After this period, companies will be able to conclude a career savings agreement. For my part, I hope that a solution will be reached within each sector as quickly as possible. I have already understood that certain sectors are very interested, such as, for example, metal. As for your second question concerning the royal decree, the work is almost finished. We are also preparing a royal decree authorizing the granting of cash premiums in the context of career savings, in order to stimulate the measure provided for in the law on feasible and manageable work. I am convinced that, within a year, even SMEs will be able to reach an agreement or find solutions to offer their workers the opportunity to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u62	Mr. Chair, Minister, I will take it from your answer that there are several sectors that are interested. I regret and do not understand why workers' representatives do not allow this freedom of choice. However, this measure is positive and responds to changes in the world of work towards the twenty-first century. I also mean that the Royal Decree is ready and that the measures will also be implemented for SMEs and TPEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u63	Minister, we all agree on the need to combat terrorism. This requires tackling the problems that need to be addressed and identifying the things that need to be appointed. However, my group is very concerned about two royal decisions you wish to issue. You want to extend the terrorist database to include persons with certain ideological and political motives. One thing is clear: the terror we are dealing with is violent jihadism. Then let us take a look at the royal decisions you intend to issue. The question is who you are fishing for. Who do you want to register with the criterion of ideological and political motives? Are there any eco-terrorists in this country? Do we know of any anarchists who would want to commit an attack? Are there any right-wing militias here who might want to commit an attack? Do we know Hindus, Sikhs or Jehovahs who preach hatred? I don't think so. That is also what the Privacy Commission says. You have very vague concepts. The danger of this is, of course, that we are victimizing very innocent citizens and not those you must fish for. Another problem, Minister, is access to the database. Who has access to it? Those are customs, Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs, but also mayors. Of course, it must also be remembered that this database must be shared internationally with Interpol and Schengen countries, among others. This information will therefore be widely disseminated. This, of course, means that the freedom of movement of a large number of innocent citizens could be seriously restricted. That is why I ask you to name and address the problem, we must move on, but I have a vague suspicion that the royal decisions you are proposing go just too far. Minister, do you intend to review the royal decrees in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u64	Mrs Wouters, sometimes it is good to get information from the newspaper, but that should be the beginning of a search to see what really happened, after which the newspaper articles should be checked against the facts. That would help us a lot. We do indeed have a database of Foreign Terrorist Fighters which includes five categories. Mrs Wouters, you will probably not have noticed that the problem is not just about foreign fighters, there have also been attacks by people who have not gone to Syria or Iraq. Those were people who, so to speak, did not leave our country and yet radicalised. You may also have noticed that there are also people involved in jihadism who have never taken up a weapon themselves, but who do encourage others to commit such crime. We are trying to do that now. We're going to expand the database with those two categories. Where are we with that? The two KBs you mentioned were discussed at first reading in the Council of Ministers. They were sent to the Commission for the protection of privacy. We have received two opinions from them with a number of comments. The KBs have now been sent to the Council of State together with the opinions as they should be. We will look at the opinion of the Council of State and, where appropriate, adapt the CRAs. Your question contained a number of factual inaccuracies. I'm gonna go in here anyway. The mayors don't have access to the database. I think the mayors should have access to that database. I'm gonna see if we can give the mayors who wish to do so a security clearance. That's the condition of accessing that database. Nor is it true that this database is shared internationally with others. It is true that some of the suggestions contained in that database have ended up internationally and are thus also being dealt with by Interpol and Europol. You must therefore give correct information.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. However, I can only observe that I have never read such negative opinions from the Commission for the protection of privacy as those relating to these two KBs. What do you have to take into account? First and foremost, you must use pure concepts. You're using vague concepts. It's not at all clear who you're targeting right now. Just tell me where it stands, tell me we want to watch violent jihadism. Do that and the problem is solved. Secondly, there is proportionality. It is said that sometimes you go a long way in which you want to have all this looked at. You yourself say that you certainly want mayors, politicians, to have a look at all of that. The question is, of course, what the finality is. That is what the Commission is about to protect privacy. What are you trying to do with this? Is this useful now? You're way out of line with your proposal. You're gonna get way too many innocent civilians on that list. I thought this wasn't supposed to happen. Be clear and name it. I don't think you're literally dared to say that you want to tackle violent jihadism. I thought you'd learned lessons from that screening for Tommorowland where it also went wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u66	Don't worry, you won't be on that list.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u67	Minister, I was absolutely not afraid of that. That's what you wanted to say, of course. As these laws and KBs have now been written, real Flemish nationalists could become the first victims. I believe that the opinion of the Council of State will also go this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u68	Mr President, Minister, the fate to be reserved for Belgian nationals who are still in Syria and Iraq is a famous challenge for our country. We are not the only ones concerned; France, the Netherlands and other European countries are also concerned. According to the latest figures that were given to me by the OCAM this noon – I would also like to thank the Minister of the Interior for allowing their transmission – there are currently 295 Belgians in Syria and Iraq, including 148 minors. Most of them are extremely young; three-quarters are under the age of six. On the one hand, there are those who fought. They are terrorists, most of whom are adults. I believe that, in this case, it is the Iraqi justice system that must apply. There is no extradition treaty, as we have seen with Osama Atar. Some of them will probably be sentenced to death. It will be difficult not to say anything. What will be our attitude at that time? For my part, I have always been firm in the fight against terrorism. But our principles must also be respected. It is therefore likely that they will have to request that their sentence be commuted and help the Iraqi justice system to stay in prison in Iraq. What is your opinion on this, minister? On the other hand, there are minors. Most of them obviously did not choose to meet there. They were trained by their parents. They were sometimes born in that country and sometimes even on the way back. According to the figures I have received, there are about 150 minors. I know that other figures are published in the press, but these are the latest figures. Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, we must have a proactive policy with regard to these minors, because we know, especially with regard to those who are very young, that the longer they stay in camps, the more they will risk being radicalised. In our interest and in their interest, we have everything to gain from proactive policy towards them and from bringing them back, in any case the youngest, in a coordinated way at European level. Indeed, it is also a matter of having an attitude that is coordinated at European level, since we know that these minors will one day be able to pose a threat. It is therefore a question of having a European attitude in this area. What is your view on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u69	Mr Dallemagne, ladies and gentlemen, I do not dispute at all the figures you provide. They are evolving regularly and they are, indeed, the latest figures given by the OCAM. As far as the various categories are concerned, you have asked a very concrete question: if prosecutions are envisaged and implemented in Iraq, for example, how will the situation be monitored? I have already had the opportunity to send the Iraqi authorities a very clear message about our position on the death penalty. In 2019, we will be organizing a world congress in Brussels to promote abolition. It is clear that we advocate that there should be no application of death sentences and that, where appropriate, those penalties should be transformed into another type of punishment. The message will be the same, regardless of the partners and situations, even when it comes to terrorism. As far as the relationship with all these people in Syria and Iraq is concerned, I would add that, beyond the figures, one of the difficulties we are facing is location. It is not because we know that a number of people are in this area that we know exactly where they are. This is particularly the case for a large number of minors. What are we doing? At the National Security Council, work started with the various departments - Justice, Interior, Police, OCAM, Intelligence, etc. – to try to pursue as coherent and proactive a policy as possible. There are different categories of persons, including minors born in recent years. This poses several categories of problems. First, nationality. We are told that a number of Belgians are on site. This nationality will have to be determined and confirmed, especially for children born there. It will not be as simple a procedure as we sometimes seem to say. We're working on it. Secondly, the location. We will have to locate these people, whether they are children, their mothers, who are often present on the spot, and, if they are still alive – because some have been killed during the conflicts – the fighters present. We'll see how to get them back. I can reassure you on one point: there have already been returns. In particular, as far as minors are concerned, we are working in particular with the justice services, but with the Communities. Because there must also be reception work in services dependent on the Communities. We will probably soon be able to give you the way in which one wishes to behave, theoretically, initially, for all the categories of cases concerned, if possible in parallel with other European countries; while knowing that there will always be exceptional cases. But I would stress that as far as the death penalty is concerned, we will have the same attitude as we have always had towards all our partners, regardless of the facts in question. And above all, we focus on how to receive more information on the location of people. Indeed, the figures you are quoting are correct, but they do not necessarily give us this indication of the contacts that could be made, including in Iraq, to carry out, if necessary, repatriation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u70	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I am reassured on the first part. Having said that, we will probably have to help the Iraqi justice system, since it will be a demand on our part and it will be up to its budget. It is therefore likely that an international mechanism will have to be determined in such a way that it can effectively implement this policy with a sanction that is different from the death penalty. On the second part, I think we really need to be more proactive. You're right. Fourteen miners returned in 2017. They came home by their own means and we identified them here. The Belgian Government has taken over the project. I have explained this to myself, in particular, with the Minister of Justice recently. As for all others, they are identified fairly well because, for example, grandparents demand them. When one quotes a figure as precise as 114, which is all the time mentioned, it is that one knows roughly who it is. When we know that three quarters of minors are under the age of six, it's because they've still been identified. I therefore believe that it is in the interest of the youngest of them to withdraw them quickly from there, for their protection and ours and to ensure that they are not manipulated or radicalised in the future and that they do not constitute a threat. Many of them are already Belgian. In this area, we have an interest in having a policy that is as proactive and as coordinated as possible at European level, since it is a challenge for all democracies today. I expect you, why not, to have a European conference on this issue quickly to check how we can, together, meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u71	Minister, last week, the Sûreté de l'Etat published a brochure which aims to inform the various political organisations, but also the population in general, about Salafism in Belgium. It is called Salafism in Belgium: mechanisms and reality.Many partners of the State Security, I am thinking here of the OCAM, the federal or local police, but also the public prosecutor's office, the communes, the CPAS or the universities will receive it very soon. In concrete terms, this publication explains in a nuanced and pedagogical way the difference between "scientific", "political" and "jihadist" Salafism. It also aims to raise the reader's awareness of the potential threat posed by this phenomenon, as well as how it is monitored by our government. We welcome this initiative, which is precisely within the framework of the recommendations and the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on terrorist attacks. The "radicalism" aspect of this report indicated precisely that certain currents within Islam, such as Salafism, promote radicalism. It also states that all authorities in our country must recognize the problem of radicalism and mobilize to combat it, and must also raise awareness of another concept of Islam, including by supporting civil society initiatives. Mr Minister, the fight against radicalism is a major task that must, of course, be pursued unabated. Are other such initiatives planned to raise awareness among public bodies and citizens of our country? As far as the plan "radicalism in prison" is concerned, can you inform us about the number of imams engaged in prisons and which constitute one of the relays in terms of pedagogy and awareness? Finally, the French system allows the rapid detection of radicalisation behaviour in prison through agents cooperating directly with the intelligence services. Does such a system seem applicable to you in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u72	Mr Calomne, you will not be surprised to hear me say that your questions surprise me a little. In fact, you had planned to ask me a question about the Salafism brochure and you asked me questions about the universe. I'm not supposed to know all the rules of the universe. That being said, the brochure on Salafism that was the subject of your question was written by the State Security with a great deal of pedagogy so that all the services close and far away from the country would be informed of the phenomenon in a correct and understandable way. In reality, many actors are confronted with the influence of Salafism without having the tools to understand it. The actors in question are both actors in the first security circle and actors whose main tasks are elsewhere, such as CPAS. The brochure is very clear on the threat of Salafism and Sûreté helps each actor and society in general to react to this phenomenon. As far as your unexpected questions are concerned, I can only answer one of them, namely the number of imams that are used in our prisons in the face of radicalisation. For example, I recently visited Hasselt's wing, where two imams mainly deal with the accompaniment of the prisoners in question. As regards your request for a comparison with France, I would ask you to introduce an oral question in the Committee on Justice. I'll be happy to answer that at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answers, including those to the unexpected questions. I will come back to you in the Justice Committee with a more specific question. The various elements show, if necessary, that the fight against radicalism is indeed a priority of this government. For many years the Reform Movement has warned against the rise of radicalism in our country and this brochure confirms a number of recommendations contained in the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. With regard to this brochure, it is the fourth brochure published by the State Security in 180 years of existence. We can only welcome this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u74	Mr President, Minister, the fight against tax fraud is a great success for this legislature. However, there is still a long-standing pain point, in particular the seven-year fiscal limitation period. The idea lives that one can sleep on both ears if one can hide one's black money for seven years. However, the tax limitation period is not a criminal release. In the case of successive tax regularisations, it was always allowed that tax evaders only paid fines on the interest they had collected over the last five to seven years. Now we're going to take a firm stand on that pain point. By the way, none of your predecessors ever got this done. The tax limitation period of seven years is no longer used as a criterion for criminal penalties for money laundering. We already have record amounts in the fight against fraud. It will cover both the number of collections from 250 million euros in 2014 to 308 million euros in 2016. We are also looking forward to the figures for 2017, but I have every confidence in them. The number of files also increased from around 1 000 per year to 2 500 over 10 years. The BBI is now working on bank records from abroad. All taxpayers will be invited to regularise their tax-deprecated capital also at the Point of Contact Regularisations. Minister, that is revolutionary. My questions are as follows. What happens if a taxpayer fails to comply with the call? How will you deal with this in concrete terms? What is specifically needed to make this approach a success?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u75	Mr President, Mr Klaps, you have outlined the situation quite correctly. We receive a mass of information about Belgians' accounts abroad through the Common Reporting Standard system that has been developed internationally. Today we are talking about data from some 50 countries, including Luxembourg and Panama, for example. Switzerland will join in 2018 as well. For most accounts there are no problems, but tax and criminal investigations from the past have shown that foreign accounts can also deal with a lot when it comes to black income and the avoidance of withholding tax on movable income. What are we gonna do now? The BBI started an initial investigation on the basis of the data from the Luxembourg accounts and, logically, the BBI focuses on the non-tax-barred period of seven years. However, a lot of the foreign account balances have been built up in a tax-deprecated period for which the tax administration you have also indicated is no longer able to assess. In criminal matters, the situation is different and there is often no statute of limitations. Although crimes are in principle statuted after five years, the prosecution could rely on the crime of money laundering in order to start criminal proceedings, for the simple reason that it is then a so-called follow-up crime, whose limitation period starts to run only once the assets are no longer hidden. The BBI will invite the taxable persons concerned to regularise tax-deprecated capital. Since, by definition, the fiscal period cannot be subject to a tax investigation by the BBI, the legislation on regularisation also remains fully applicable. If no action is taken, a file will be forwarded to the court. We are applying the existing legal possibilities and, of course, we are also counting on the support of the Justice Department. The fight against tax fraud is everyone's fight. Contrary to previous governments, the current government is now also tackling the age-old black capital.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u76	Minister, that is good news again. The government makes sure that the government's garbage falls, that purchasing power increases, that there are more jobs and that for fraudsters the back door is closed after the back door. That is fiscal justice, Minister: the change is working!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u77	Minister, remember, in committee, on January 23, I told you that I was tired of seeing leaks in the press about the progress of your policy. I note today that it is still through the press that the figures presented by Mr Albrecht are discovered. That you don't do much to my demands, little to me, Madam Minister. This is not about me, it is about our fellow citizens, that you serve by this lack of cases. In addition, you would have asked for additional figures from Professor Albrecht and the Plan Bureau, even though we have already exceeded the deadline you originally set, namely 20 January. Only one constant in your energy transition management policy: perpetual delay. We're delaying the deadline. Minister, was it not easier to have a committee to accompany the study from the outset so that we could get these figures first? You will answer me, once it is not customary, that you act in this way for security and that you must not navigate blindly in this file. I don't dispute it. Nevertheless, there are many contradictory figures despite the quality of the analysts who produced them. There is, however, one thing we are certain of: the release of nuclear power in 2025 is cast into the law. In the medium term, it is inevitable. And, if we do this in time, energy independence at controlled costs is guaranteed. Three questions, Madam Minister, to conclude. Are you finally going to stop your government's strategic energy vision? Or will you eventually let your indecision sweep away your commitments? If you tell me that you are finally going to take on your responsibilities, I would like to know once and for all what your timetable is. I remember identical questions in this place, with calendars never kept. I would also like to know what exactly the figures provided to you during the presentation of the study on Tuesday say?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am somewhat surprised at the way in which you formulate your question. It is not by caricaturing things or by imputing leaks in the press that we will get out and you will give density to your intervention. The three questions it contained took time to arrive, and are still the same. I'll answer it the same way. First of all, as you know, we called for a more in-depth costing of CO2 emissions, cost to consumers and businesses, plant safety and security of supply, so that we could have an equally in-depth discussion with federal government partners. For the time being, they have not yet adopted the energy vision developed by the three regional ministers and myself for the federal level. You know this vision that I am defending, and you have had the opportunity to go through the text. We will have every opportunity to discuss it. As far as the timetable is concerned, you are telling me that the previous calendars have never been honoured. On the contrary, and we will never agree, all the tasks that the government had imposed on itself have been accomplished. We are continuing to work on this vision so that it becomes a pact. The four Energy Ministers will be aligned with this vision. I do not despair of convincing my colleagues in the federal government in a future kern, on the basis of these figures. As for the details of the figures, I am astonished. Everyone can start numbers in the face and launch them in the press. I tell you myself that I am in no way responsible for the leaks that you are trying to impute me. If you have seen figures, we can discuss them, but this is certainly not the place to do it. I will certainly not comment on figures that are still partial because, as you understand, further requests have been made to Johan Albrecht and the Planning Office in order to respond as precisely as possible to the request made to me. I want to do this without being asked again as soon as I arrive in front of the Kern. Once I have come to a conclusion, I will have the opportunity to discuss it with you at length in committee, as I have always done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u79	Minister, we are no more advanced with your answer. No one is! Since 2015, you have promised us the energy pact figures as well as the discussion with the federated entities. We're in 2018, and still nothing! What have you and your administration undertaken in three years? Nothing! Therefore, Minister, you and I do not have the same notion of the timetable. I'm telling you very clearly. Minister, you represent the government. We need decisions. I'll end up believing that your firm is actually an inter-academic research centre to produce studies and not to decide. Minister, we must now reach the decision stage. The citizens are waiting for him, just like the parliament. Madam Minister, it's less one!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u80	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Knack unpacked last week with a file on the military intelligence service ADIV. According to Knack, there have been secret talks between ADIV and the Kurdish militia YPG. In 2016, ADIV organised medical training and shooting exercises in Iraq. In 2016, experts from ADIV gave training to YPG militias in Belgium. YPG has close links with the terrorist organisation PKK, which is on the terrorist list of the European Union and the United States. NATO alliance Turkey is fighting against the terrorist organisation Daesh and international terrorism. Two weeks ago, Turkey launched an offensive at the border with Syria in Afrin, the so-called Operation Olive branch against militias from YPG, among others. In doing so, I would just like to state how complex and explosive the situation is on the ground. According to Knack, there have been secret talks between ADIV and YPG on cooperation and on the supply of combat clothing. It is noteworthy that General Testelmans, the former head of military intelligence, had neither informed you as Minister of Defence and politically responsible, nor the Chief of Staff about those controversial plans for cooperation with YPG. Minister, did our country deliver weapons or other military equipment to YPG? Were you or your cabinet aware of ADIV's controversial plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u81	Mr Yüksel, I will say one thing: I think it is normal for an intelligence service to have secret conversations. It is the essence of intelligence services that happens in secret. The main focus of the ADIV, the military intelligence service, is abroad for two reasons. Firstly, Belgium is operating abroad. For example, if one of our F-16s gets into trouble in an area owned by the SDF/YPG, it is good to have contacts there, so that we can effectively bring our people home. Secondly, by law, our intelligence services are expected to play a role in the fight against terrorism. I therefore expect the intelligence services, and certainly ADIV, which reports to me, to make the contribution they can make and to do everything possible to prevent the free access of foreign fighters to our territory. This can only be done if we can intervene in good time and intercept the FTTs on the ground. If you ask me if illegal things have happened, I will answer no. I answer yes to the question whether the then boss of ADIV acted within his mandate and within the laws and rules he was granted. I'm not the only one saying that. The Committee I, which examined the specific event, also concluded that it acted within the statutory tasks of ADIV. In short, in that respect, there is nothing really wrong. Mr Yüksel, you also asked me, among other things, who was in contact with whom and who was aware at what time. You will understand that for the explanatory statement on such operations, involving both agents and sources on the ground and involving security risks, the plenary is not the ideal forum. I would like to refer you to the committee set up in Parliament for this purpose, namely the Standing Committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I. Moreover, as always, I am at Parliament's disposal for any further explanation, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u82	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Military intelligence must, of course, do what is expected of them. My question was: 'This is also what comes up in Knack's file 'Why you were neither aware of that delicate operation nor the chief of staff.' It is unseen that the military intelligence service ADIV is working on plans in such a situation without informing the Minister of Defence, who is ultimately politically responsible. For such matters, political back-up is absolutely necessary given, among other things, the complexity. You referred to the approach to terrorism and the security of our interests abroad and on our territory. In this respect, some vigilance and caution are advisable. I hear the federal prosecutor's office is in the middle of an investigation. We shall, of course, await the results of that investigation. I certainly hope that Parliament will be informed of the results of the investigation and that we can and may have the debate on it at the appropriate time and in the right place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u83	Mr President, as is customary every year on 1 February, prices will be indexed at SNCB. No more than usual, because everything is getting more expensive, but this is re-invigorating the debate on SNCB's pricing policy. The previous ceo, Jo Cornu, said that greater tariff freedom was essential to restore the financial health of SNCB. The current ceo, Sofie Dutordoir, immediately put her finger on the wound when she joined the Infrastructure Committee. She spoke of the 92 different tarifs that exist today at SNCB. It called for urgent simplification. The Liberal Party supports SNCB in its demand for more autonomous government with less interference from politics and trade unions. This includes a more freer price formation, Minister. We have been saying that freer pricing is a long time, provided that quality and punctuality improve. The traveller needs to get his money's worth. Unfortunately, the shoe still pinches here. The quality is still substandard. Yesterday, in the Committee on Infrastructure, we asked questions about punctuality. Minister, you have heard from the majority as well as from the opposition that there was criticism of the way punctuality is measured. In the current method an empty train in the evening counts as much as an overcrowded train in the rush hour. There is also a lack of transparency. There is also the feeling with the traveller that the figures do not match his senses. Mr Minister, how will you encourage SNCB and Infrabel to improve services in the context of management contracts? Will the link that exists today between price and punctuality remain or will there be changes to that? The management contracts date back to 2008. The new management contracts have long been announced. Can you tell us today when the new management contracts will be presented?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, the new management contract of SNCB is currently under negotiation and talks are progressing. I do not want to go into detail on this, but I can assure you that I will continue to be very careful to ensure that the services provided to SNCB's customers continue to gain quality, including in order to justify the price they pay. The tariff increase that starts today and was decided by the SNCB Board of Directors is in line with the rules laid down in the 2008 management contract. This concerns mainly the application of the indexation mechanism. For a number of notes, the price remains unchanged. For your information, I would like to inform you that the majority of the other public service providers also have such an indexation mechanism. Nevertheless, I would also like to point out that rail tariffs in Belgium are rather low if we compare them with our neighbouring countries. It should also be borne in mind that the share not paid by customers is financed by taxpayers, some of whom never take the train. Once the new management contracts are completed, the texts will be submitted to Parliament. The quality, punctuality and fares come with "the same train."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I remember that the management contracts are progressing. You do not mention a specific date, but the train is progressing. Hopefully he will get to the terminal soon, here in Parliament, and we can discuss this. As far as tariffs are concerned, I repeat that indexation is only normal. However, if tariffs are left freer, I would like to convey the message that we are living in a free market economy and that the traveller wants to pay a little more, provided that there is a better quality. Finally, Mr President, today we are discussing the reality of price indexation. Minister, I dream, perhaps like you, that we can also index punctuality and add a number of percentage points each year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u86	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u87	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u88	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u89	Mr Laaouej has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u90	Mr President, as the last Member, I shall pass the floor to my fellow Members who have been registered before me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u91	Mr Deseyn, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u92	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with a general reflection. The government and also my party, CD&V, have always made justice a topic, including taxation. It is true that the current government has called for additional efforts from various groups in society, such as pensioners, people at the end of their careers or workers at the beginning of their careers. Now, through the present draft law, we are asking for an effort from the more wealthy part of the population, which I can certainly say, and I even think that it is still an understatement in such a way that everyone can contribute and assume their responsibilities in order to bring greater harmony into our society. The government is not just asking everyone to do their part. It certainly also makes the necessary efforts to support people, especially the weakest in society. Everything is linked to everything. This design cannot therefore be separated from the big project of the tax shift, which is a tax shift from labour to other sources of income, which has already produced a lot for the people. Anyone who looks at his paycheck this month will notice an increase in net wages, up to 40 euros per month. The scarce resources were handled very selectively and were used as a priority on the lowest wages. As with the adjustment of pensions, the oldest and the lowest pensions were also used. We continue on that momentum and work out the tax shift in all its forms, appearances and segments. It is precisely in that large yard of the tax shift that this design can also be framed. We will continue with the summer agreement on that momentum. What's in a name? Today is February 1st, but the summer agreement will take place here this afternoon. This agreement also includes the tax on the securities account. In the case of the tax to be levied on the securities account of natural persons, we are looking at the threshold of EUR 500 000. For a couple that is 2 x 500 000 euros or 1 million euros. There are few taxes that one is pleased to have to pay, but anyone who is invited to contribute at the level of the tax on his securities account has not been ill-manned. The starting point is that the declaration, retention and payment are made by the intermediaries, that it is an automatic deduction. I know, however, that it is not obvious for the sector to implement all this; the taxpayer can organise this himself. The good thing about the design is that many automations are already built in. And it doesn't just apply to the Belgians. Of course, it applies to residents of Belgium but also to non-residents who have a securities account with a Belgian financial institution. One wondered whether this is not too scary and whether it is not about a very limited niche. However, if we look at the number of financial instruments covered in that draft, the shares, bonds and funds that are quoted or not, we have a broad and to be defended scope here. We have clearly ruled out life insurance and pension savings, because of course we do not want to touch it. Mr Laaouej, I come to your specific question, or rather votre remarque préliminaire. During the discussion in the Finance Committee, the question was raised as to who could be awarded this trophy. Is it for CD&V or not? That seems to be a very important question. Our chairman gave the answer in committee when he congratulated the leader of the group. That was his most personal answer. Maybe we should ask a dromedary. In any case, this form of mediatic symbol culture completely ignores the efforts made by this government to strengthen and help the economy and society. For me it is not important who can get the plume on his hat. This is a joint work by the full majority. Mr Gilkinet, I understand why you "ha!" Says. It is of course true that, as with the speculative tax, the impact tax for a piece is also in line with the wishes of my party. However, it is not because these taxes are in line with our wishes that they were initially our wishes. I also pointed out to you in committee the authorship of a number of proposed initiatives, such as the speculative tax. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well what our party's initial commitment was, but this is a measure supported by all the government parties and which is also in line with what we have put forward as the main thrust of the tax shift. I answer your question, Mr Kitir. What was that? I'd like to refresh your memory, but I think your question is mostly rhetorical. We have proposed an added value tax without harming SMEs or the small investor. However, we have always said that income, growth, should be taxed instead of possession. Mr Kitir, where are we now? That may seem a little strange to you, hence perhaps the fascination. The Prime Minister and his entire team have gone much further in this respect. After all, he has proposed to us a tax on securities accounts, a real capital tax. Perhaps you think all this is too far-reaching, Mr Kitir, and you never dreamed that you would show such courage. We're happy about what happened. Why? With the added value tax proposal that we had put forward, we spoke for the first year of an order of EUR 80 million. After that, there was a certain growth path. However, the proposal now on the table and on which we will be voting in the near future should be worth EUR 254 million. On this point, we can only say that this is the way forward. If one has to choose between EUR 80 million or EUR 254 million, then that choice has been made quickly. If this is the way to achieve a more balanced fiscal policy, then this is to be commended. There is one point that has not yet been addressed in colleagues' speeches. We have already talked about many external elements, the varnish, the trophy or what has been brought in, but not yet about a number of things on the ground when it comes to loopholes and loopholes. If we look at the inbuilt anti-abuse provisions, I believe that the administration will be able to fight well against those who cross borders. Of course, one is always very creative and especially when it comes to fiscal high technology, the legislator tends to be somewhat behind. It is also important for us in this Chamber today to be able to underline the added value of the longer discussion, which the chairman of the committee will undoubtedly agree with. Sometimes it's good for a file that there's a little polemical around. If each group can examine and calculate the impact of a number of proposed measures again, serious improvements can be made. In concrete terms, the first government proposal did not include the certificates. They didn't fall within the perimeter of the bill. Now that's the case. The committee has been very accommodating and has been able to conclude a number of matters before the end of the year. This part will come in January, but it is therefore an extended and improved draft law. Important adjustments have been made. I have spoken about the certificates, but also about the unlisted financial instruments, which were not originally intended, were chosen for the way forward. I can conclude, Mr President, with the obvious conclusion that our group will be delighted to support the government's bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u93	I am touched by the enthusiasm of my fellow Members, Mr President. As I said in committee, I am honest with you in this matter, our party is a cool lover of this step. In view of the fiscal efforts we are making with this government, this step in its globality is certainly responsible and correct. In recent years, with this government, we have managed to reduce the overall tax burden by at least 2%. It is therefore logical that we should at the same time introduce a number of checks-and-balances and call upon a number of mechanisms to enable the current tax reduction to be financed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u94	Mr Van de Velde, on the one hand, you say that you are a cool lover of this measure, on the other hand, you call it correct and responsible. I know that since the Community's standstill, you have not been awakened by the billions of euros in transfers that run from north to south in this country and increase every year. However, I wonder whether you are aware of who will pay this securities tax in particular. You're introducing a transfer tax. I would have liked to hear from you whether you have any idea how many persons per region will be affected by this new tax? I have figures based on a substantiated estimate. I'll give it to you later, but I wonder if you yourself have any idea. Either you simply don't know it, or you don't care by calling this tax correct and responsible. I wonder what the worst of both options is.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u95	Mrs Pas, I believe that the discussion you wish to stimulate will in any case be to your disadvantage. The various interventions carried out by this government in both personal and corporate taxation are much faster and better in the mass for Flanders than for Wallonia. This has just to do with the masses. The tax reductions, the tax shift and the reduction in the premia are such that they are much more beneficial to Flanders than to Wallonia. In this respect, every fiscal intervention weighs more heavily on the masses. The tax cuts in recent years are greater than what we are doing here. In my speech I had arrived at the overall picture. This government deals with taxation in an economically stimulating way. As a result, we have effectively created jobs and growth, and there are additional investments. All this only benefits our global economy. I realise that this is a unique situation and that we are using direct capital taxes to break down a door that I would have preferred to leave closed. We have accepted this within the overall package of measures. I just think that we should pay attention to the future in order to look at this as some kind of effective new track. I don't think that's the case. I like the discussion with the opposition. According to the opposition, it is not enough, but at the same time the opposition assumes that changes in behaviour will occur, so apparently it is enough to change behaviour, which means that the tax will have an impact. In this context, I must inform the opposition that there are three reasons for taxing: a redistributing effect, the financing of public expenditure and the determination of behaviour. Like any other tax, this tax will also determine behavior. So people will change their behavior, just like with other taxation. The fact that it is behavioral also means that it is impactful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u96	As Mr. Van de Velde, announcing a measure on 26 July and having it adopted on 1 February while announcing to the potentials concerned the rules that would be applied for this tax on securities accounts, indeed many of those who would be affected by this tax on securities accounts read what the government announced. They have been advised by large tax offices and will not ultimately pay the tax. That's what Mr. Van de Velde just explained it to us. On the other hand, the amount of new revenue estimated by the government has not changed since the beginning: EUR 254 million. Despite all the loopholes that have been identified and the lateness of the vote on this text on which I will give my opinion earlier, it is considered that the revenue still amounts to 254 million euros. I'll let you estimate the credibility of the figure. However, at the time I asked for the floor, I would have liked to have asked Mr Piedboeuf's opinion on Mr Piedboeuf's remarks. Van de Velde as to the interest of the regions in the various tax measures that have been taken. I had the impression that we were here, in the Federal Parliament, looking for positive solutions for all our fellow citizens for the financing of the state, and I regret the turn of the debate and the presentation by Mr. Van de Velde. I note the silence of the French-speaking partner of the majority as a result of these comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u97	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u98	But I'm asking him to speak, Mr. Thiéry!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u99	He'll be at the perch in a few moments, Mr. Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u100	Mr President, I simply wanted to say to Mr Gilkinet that Mr Piedboeuf did not remain silent; he applauded while Mr. Van de Velde had just explained that tax reforms, including corporate tax reform, benefited the north of the country rather than the south. That is exactly what we have demonstrated and what the UCM denounced by explaining that the reform of corporate tax will harm small and medium-sized enterprises in the south of the country, Wallonia and Brussels. It is the socio-economic fabric that is not taken into account, which is not properly defended by the French-speaking partner of this government. That's what Mr. Van de Velde and that's what got him the applause of Mr. Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u101	Without underestimating Mr Piedboeuf's intellectual abilities, because he will give a wonderful answer, I would like to nuance what I have said. I have said that any fiscal intervention by its masses in Flanders is more palpable than in Wallonia. Both the pluses and the minuses. That's what I said, and that's just right. There's no pin to get in there. That has nothing to do with the Community! If my neighbors are trying to claim that this is an extra transfer, I say: no, that is not right. Over the last few years, the tax burden has been distributed proportionally among the masses. If we look at the total figures, we can see that this pressure has fallen more in Flanders than in Wallonia, but that has to do with the mass. This has nothing to do with favouring one region or another. I understand that it is a little more difficult for my neighbors here, but that kind of thinking is totally different in taxation than when one looks at expenditure. The problem lies in the fact that expenditure is compensated for, because the real transfers are the transfers of expenditure, Mrs Pas, the problem is not in taxation, because it works more quickly with the large mass than with the small mass. You'd better explain that to someone who really knows it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u102	Mr President, let us say the way they are, this is another missed opportunity on the part of the government to finally bring us a real tax project that takes into account the parameters of the tax justice imperative. In other words, the stated objective of making more use of capital or income from capital is not confirmed when we look at the texts and structure of the system that is now on the table. This is a missed opportunity because it must be recognised that you have made a very large contribution since the beginning of the legislature to workers, pensioners, beneficiaries through measures such as index jumps or the increase in VAT on electricity. You have also put at risk a number of social security posts, in particular health care. It would have been high time to develop an approach that could move towards fairer taxation in favour of labour income in the broad sense of the term – including replacement income – and by making more use of capital or capital income. I would like to say to the CD&V, who here gathers a trophy – or claims to earn a trophy – that he must be wary of appearances. The Minister of Finance, at the time this project was under discussion, made major statements. In particular, he said that he should pay attention to the threshold effect, or that the bill might not go beyond the Constitutional Court, under the principle of equality before the law. On the other hand, I hear Mr. Van de Velde says he's going to vote for it without really agreeing. There may therefore be one trap in the system that we are about to vote on today, which could lead to the result of a previous measure – which was one of your gains – the famous tax on capital gains. This tax disappeared quite quickly – a biodegradable tax! – and had been described as a hilarious tax by a certain website operating in international finance. On the substance, let us say that we cannot, of course, deny that this is an interesting step. Let's be clear, the principle...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u103	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u104	Mr Verherstraeten, the principle is in itself interesting. However, you have set a threshold: 500 000 euros. This means that someone who arranges to have EUR 499 999 will not be subject to the contribution, while another who has deposited EUR 500 001 will be. From the point of view of the constitutionality of the measure, this is an aspect that will certainly interest those who would like to challenge your bill, which, tomorrow, will become a law – because there is no doubt about it. Moreover, as I recalled, the Minister of Finance himself warned against this threshold. I now turn to the practicality of the system and the possibility for intermediaries responsible for levying this tax to achieve it physically and operationally. Here again, it is worth remembering the interventions of several professionals in the sector and also – at some point, it seems to me – of the Minister of Finance himself, having called into question the practicality of the measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u105	Mr. Laaouej, Mr. Van Rompuy wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u106	Mr Laaouej, at the beginning there were comments and objections about the EUR 500 000 threshold, but the Council of State did not prevent them. The Council of State has criticized other points and the government has then taken them into account afterwards. You keep saying that up to EUR 499 000 is not paid. No, they pay from the first euro. It is about amounts of EUR 0 to EUR 500 000 if one sits above it, but it is not about paying that tax only from a certain threshold. It's not a certain threshold or 0. It ranges from EUR 0 to EUR 500 000 and EUR 1 million. You must acknowledge that the Council of State raised no objection to this. You begin with that objection, but that was not stopped by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u107	Mr President, Mr Van Rompuy, it is only one observation among many that I shall soon develop; that is not the main observation. Setting a threshold is always arbitrary. In our work, I have expressed the fact that, in the field of taxation, thresholds are regularly established. Recently, the issue of exempt allowances was addressed. In the case of an exemption bonus, the average taxable income, an objective statistical data, was used. There is then a justification for taking the average income (this could have been the median income, etc.).). In this case, reliable data were lacking as to the purpose of the EUR 500 000 threshold. You told us that, according to some studies, this was approximately equivalent to the average portfolio. I refer you to the studies carried out by the National Bank on the average financial assets of Belgians. This study is also very interesting because it specifies, at the same time, the average financial assets according to the nature of the financial assets. The study is very detailed. In this case, you opt for the EUR 500 000 threshold. You're talking about the Council of State. I am pleased to finally hear you value the opinion of the Council of State! This does not happen every day! I would even say that the tendency of this government that you support, Mr Van Rompuy, is to sit down on the opinions of the Council of State, even when these are particularly serious matters. We cannot invoke the advice of the Council of State when it suits you and not follow it when it does not help you. I can list a whole series of opinions from the Council of State on which you have sat! For the rest, Mr Van Rompuy, the Council of State decides on legality and not on timeliness. I'm talking about an opportunity here, telling you that beyond the threshold, we're taxed and then we're not taxed. There is something that does not seem to me to correspond to the idea that I have of fair taxation. You don't have to share my opinion. Your feeling may be different because a feeling doesn't prove anything. However, you will not stop me from saying that this is annoyed, it involves a certain conception of tax justice from the moment when such arbitrary thresholds are set for taxation of assets.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u108	Mr Laaouej, I have followed your reasoning on the 500 000 euro threshold. The problem you describe arises with any threshold. In fact, you are calling for this type of tax to be applied from the first euro, including for people who have 1,000 euros, 10,000 or 500,000 in an account. Have I understood your reasoning correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u109	You partially understand that. It's a step forward. Take the business income. They are taxed from the first euro. That's the basic rule. Second, there is a tax reduction on part of that income. That's the exempted quota. This is sometimes increased for very specific reasons such as the presence of dependent children. You also have tax reductions related to the nature of your income. This benefits replacement income. In other words, social reasons may arise. Minister, you could have done something differently. The principle being that this levy exists, you could have provided for a justifiable reduction in a legal system for economic, social or other reasons, taking into account the principle of proportionality, respect for the principle of equality, in other words, by giving a justification which is proportional to the objective pursued, in accordance with the established jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. You take another choice, it's not mine. You're in the majority, I'm in the opposition. We do not have the same conception of taxation, that is all. I am not telling you that the choices you make are fundamentally inadmissible: they are in line with your vision of taxation. I don't share it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u110	It's clear, but you still started your presentation by saying it was a good start!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u111	I said two sentences. Let me finish!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u112	It's an opening. It's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u113	Yeah, but we're gonna abstain. I'll explain why. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u114	I am not like some hypocrites who vote without agreement, like Mr. Van de Velde. I don't have that reasoning. I'm more nuanced. I say the idea is good, but the modalities are not. Mr Verherstraeten seems to agree with me. I feel he would have wanted more but... a missed act, Mr. Verherstraeten!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u115	What the Minister says about certain thresholds does not apply only to taxation. In this way, a social home only belongs to those who earn a certain income. If this limit is exceeded by 15 euros, it will not be eligible for social housing. In social security, in income tax, in corporation tax, everywhere there are thresholds which, if they are exceeded, result in exclusion from one measure or another. We must then make the system proportional, as the Minister suggested. For the sake of fiscal justice, thresholds must be built in, so that the measure certainly applies to the larger assets, the higher incomes. One can, of course, discuss the definition of a high income. Anyway, you are constantly complaining about the principle of the threshold. We must discuss the mass to which the tax is applicable rather than the threshold.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u116	Mr Laaouej, it reassures me that you will not vote against and actually think the tax is a very good idea, which underlines the importance of the present draft. Mr Van Rompuy has already pointed out that there are thresholds for social security and taxation as well as for the granting of subsidies. We can discuss this. In your speech, you referred just now to studies by the National Bank on the wealth and income of the average Belgian. The threshold in the design is undoubtedly higher than the income or capital of the average Belgian. I won't deny that. However, it is the intention of the proposed tax, which, as Mr Van de Velde said, is also a capital tax, to completely spare the modal Belgian, the middle class. That is the difference in emphasis that we seem to want to place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u117	You're telling me that the average Belgian has 500,000 euros of financial assets. Basically, that's what you're telling me. Mr Verherstraeten, you have just said that we did not want to touch middle-class Belgians. The Belgian middle class does not have 500,000 euros of financial assets in an account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u118	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u119	What I want to tell you is that he doesn't have 500,000 euros and he doesn't have 300,000 euros either, Mr Verherstraeten. When I asked you at one point whether these 500,000 euros corresponded to the average financial assets held by the Belgians, I was told that no, that it was much less. So your threshold is something else? To what? We still don't know. Mr Van Rompuy, thank you for bringing arguments to my thesis. If certain benefits are limited by income, it is considered that they should only benefit people with average or modest incomes. Contributory capacity is taken into account. That is entirely in line with what I am defending. We're clearly in phase. The arguments you claim to develop to support your thesis actually serve mine. For the rest, taxation can be taken since it exists. There have always been thresholds and it must be recognized that some thresholds are sometimes not justified. It happens. In other cases, however, the thresholds correspond, in the explanatory memorandums, to an economic, social and increasingly environmental reason for the legislator's intention. Socio-economic data are increasingly taken into account in the parameterization of taxation. It seems to be missing here. I'm not saying anything else. You're making a political choice. I move on to other aspects of this project. In particular, there is the problem of the so-called "anti-abuse" measure. I apologize for having to say that this is the most disconcerting aspect of how you legislated. Mr Gilkinet recalled that this was the fruit of the July Zomerakkoord. It was not until February to be able to do so. And when we told you to be careful because people are going to organize, we were told: "No problem. We will consider that all that has been done since 9 December is as if it did not exist." Do you think that people waited until December 9th to organize themselves? In tax literature, financial journals, many reports indicate that this measure will go beyond its target because people have been given time to restructure their financial assets. Excuse me, but I think this anti-abuse provision... And again, why did you choose the date of December 9th? Some will say it's because December 8 is my birthday. Those who wrote down the terms of this arrangement may have had their reasons, I don't know. I don't want to sue for intent.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u120	Mr President, Mr Laaouej has referred to the fact that people are going to organise themselves. With the retroactivity of the measure, one part was covered, another part was not covered. It is also necessary to imagine how this would work in practice if a number of things were to be rewritten to be registered. One would soon have file and administration costs exceeding EUR 750 and then it would not be worth it. And if you organize yourself on a particular account, it will not escape the attention of the tax authorities in the context of international transparency. So I don't know if it would be such an ultimate incentive to organize things differently right away. The advantage of a modest step is also that people will not react very behaviorally. I would like to mention the following point as a response to your concern. The government has expressed its commitment here to reach a certain income threshold. The Minister of Finance has explicitly committed himself to ensuring that, if this were not the case, adjustments would follow until the proceeds have been achieved. It is important to stress once again that freewheels or escape from them will not be tolerated. We must then extend the perimeter or strengthen the controls. We are counting heavily on the amount to be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u121	This is the information of the day: the CD&V expects possible amendments to the law, if the budgetary objective is not achieved. Is that what you just said?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u122	Mr Laaouej, if there is a commitment to achieving certain figures, it is obvious that, should the measure not be able to generate it, it must be adjusted. Otherwise there will be no point in concluding major agreements. However, we do not expect any major problems in this respect because many adjustments have already been made, because anti-abuse provisions have been included. Of course, the fate of this or that measure cannot be predicted exactly. The result is very difficult to estimate because the exact level of detail of the financial information is not always available per account holder, but it is intended to generate so much. We have already discussed in detail the thresholds and the doors that are or are not wide open, but the target is clearly set for capital, with an additional measure which must generate so much from a certain threshold. If the measure is not effective, it must be adjusted accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u123	Does the minister confirm Mr Deseyn's remarks? Mr Minister, do you commit yourself, if we do not reach a revenue of 250 million, in other words, if the Court of Auditors tells us, that, in the end, it is not 250 million, but 100 million, to table an amending bill to review the scope, the modalities to reach 250 million?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u124	The government as a whole has made a commitment to reach $254 million. The result obtained through these taxes will be assessed by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u125	This is therefore a commitment of the government. In other words, there has been an agreement within the government that if the amount of $254 million is not reached, the Securities Accounts Act will be amended. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u126	That's not what I said. I said that the government as a whole was committed to achieving the $254 million result and that the result of these taxes would be assessed by the government. [[.]] You can ask me about ten times, my answer will always be the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u127	Minister, you are telling me that if the government were to find that the $254 million was not achieved, further action would be taken by the government. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u128	No! I'm saying the government will conduct the revenue assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u129	Mr. Chair, this is a demonstration that what the CD&V considers to be a commitment is, in fact, a commitment to an evaluation. There is no specific commitment to reach the amount in question. And I thank my colleague, Mr Laaouej, for pushing the government to make this clear. It is no longer necessary to question him. The answer is clear: there is no commitment on the amount. There is a commitment to an evaluation. We are sorry, colleagues on the CD&V, but under these conditions we will not be able to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u130	I turn to my colleagues on the CD&V. I think once again, you're getting screwed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u131	Mr President, I will not comment on future fiscal measures to be taken by the current and future governments. Those measures must be considered when they are in place. I just approved a budget. One of the elements of that budget is that the measure we are discussing would be worth EUR 254 million. I have heard the Minister of Finance here in the Chamber explain that this should be feasible. Once again, I have heard from the Minister of Finance that the government has committed itself to this. Let us adopt and implement this measure. I am optimistic about the possibilities of achieving the proposed amount. Mr Laaouej, we will evaluate the measure and adjust it in due course where necessary, as we do with so many fiscal measures. I am thinking, for example, of the caiman tax. In the course of this legislature, as soon as it appeared necessary, we amended the legislation and strengthened various fiscal measures. If necessary, we will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u132	Mr President, as my excellent group leader Mr Nollet says, you are really playing the other game! How many examples have you had to cite since the beginning of the legislature of laws that have not produced the new tax revenues announced? You yourself mentioned the Cayman tax, which the Court of Auditors tells us is impossible to assess, but we are very far from the revenue levels that the minister had announced to me in response to an oral question. There was this famous capital gains tax, another victory of the CD&V, which was never implemented. And today, there is this tax on securities accounts. I could add to that the revenues of the fight against tax fraud but, each time, the budgetary results are catastrophic, diametrically opposed to the revenues announced and recorded in your budgets! And what happens in the end? There is a budget deficit and Mr. Van Overtveldt and the members of his party tell us that we're going to have to save money again... on social security. It is you who must be the guarantor of all this! And if this vain commitment to a collective assessment suits you, it's that you really have to be believer. Believer in the good faith of the N-VA. But I don't believe it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand, of course, the political game played by the opposition. She's trying to get our good colleague from the majority, from CD&V. But let us be honest and let us be objective. This year's tax revenues are fundamentally much higher than ever before. This income is income from labour, income from capital, and many other forms of income. Will each specific measure be evaluated separately in this House? I don't think so! The totality of the picture clearly shows that both the tax shift introduced into personal income tax and the tax shift now introduced into the company has brought a fair distribution between what labour and capital as such generate tax. In this context, we have concluded an agreement to set a security tax. What it will bring will tell the future. This is never known in a new tax measure. We didn't know that at the time of Di Rupo, we didn't know that at the time of Verhofstadt, we didn't know that at the time of Leterme, we never knew that. Every time such a new measure was introduced, we never knew in advance what it would bring. But there is a clear evidence, 2017 has proven that the tax revenues are much higher than what was projected. These revenues come not only from labour, colleagues of the opposition, but above all from capital. Let us be honest with each other about this. There is no point in putting this measure on a scale and evaluating what it will achieve every few months. We'll see. We've reached an agreement. It is clear that we want to appeal to the powers. Powers have to make a contribution. We have reached an agreement on this with all the political parties of the majority. We are going for it, and we will see what this measure brings. We will not be distracted by fetishist talk that wants to weigh everything on a scale. At the end of the year we will see what the result is. 2017 has proven that the results are there!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u134	Mr President, I did not intend to take the floor, but I would like to talk about the figures. Mr Van Biesen, let us be honest and correct. If this government is to draw up a budget, it is to be fair and correct, that these estimates are fair and correct. Then I really do not understand that all the opinions that have been taken and given on this measure to the government and to Parliament are simply wiped off the table. I also do not understand why CD&V says today that there is an engagement of EUR 254 million, while anyone who has given an opinion on this question disputes that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u135	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u136	Except for the Minister of Finance, who you've already rolled a few times. I can give you the list. Read the blogs of colleague Van Rompuy and you know what I mean. I am not talking about CD&V in its globality, but the chairman of the Finance Committee, of any political party, has repeatedly said that the estimates made by this Minister of Finance are not going to go far. I can give you the list, but I'm not gonna do that right now. I want to talk about the securities tax. Colleagues, the National Bank estimates this at EUR 163 million. The European Commission says that EUR 175 million is reasonable. Febelfin talks about between EUR 170 and 190 million, assuming that there is no circumvention. This government has now introduced a very lame anti-abuse measure, so it is assumed that there will indeed be circumvention. All these agencies indicate that it is going to make 60 to 90 million eruo less. Why do we ask for advice from these authorities if you can estimate what you want, if the Minister of Finance can register what he wants and if CD&V says the Minister has said it and that it will be true? That's what it's about! If you are correct and honest, at least you should follow me. I wouldn't believe what the National Bank is saying. However, you hide behind it all the time, if it suits you. Now you're not following the National Bank. That is the inaccuracies and hypocrisy behind this measure!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u137	Mr Verherstraeten, I understand that you are referring to the Cayman tax to try to brand it as a trophy. Indeed, the majority of government arranged, in an unhonesty but subtle manner, so that one could not know the yield of the Cayman tax. This does not appear in the tax return of those who mention it. Everyone suspects that it does not pay the expected amount at all, but it is impossible to prove it formally. Perhaps you missed that opportunity at the CD&V to do the same with this new tax on securities accounts, and also make it impossible to calculate its return? I'm saying you should have done it, but maybe you did. Perhaps there is a secret agreement within the majority that the return on the security account tax cannot be calculated? In this way, it cannot be said that she did not achieve the expected performance. Perhaps you have applied the same technique? I'd like to know. Perhaps the Minister of Finance can certify the budgetary performance of this tax? Mr. Van Overtveldt, is that the case? Will it be possible to calculate the return on the tax on the securities accounts, or will it be possible to calculate the return on the Cayman tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u138	Various members asked for the floor. Mrs Smaers has the floor. Members have the right to interrupt. When they ask for the word for an interruption, they receive it. Interruptions are limited to two minutes each.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u139	Mr President, I would like to respond to Mr Vanvelthoven, among others. It's not our job to bring in a tax as a trophy. What we are talking about is an additional step towards fair taxation. I would like to hear that more in the debate. Mr Vanvelthoven, you do not like to hear it, but during this legislature much more work has been done on shifting taxes and charges from labour to capital than during the previous government periods. Thanks to a lot of movements during this legislature. I am not just talking about the tax shift, but about the security tax, the caiman tax, the banking tax and the increase in the withholding tax. We cannot look at this legislature alongside the immense shift from labour to capital and capital. Just a few months ago, when we discussed the budget in Parliament, we were able to say that these listed operations accounted for an additional increase in capital and capital of nearly EUR 3 billion. We are not talking about a trophy of a security tax, but about fair taxation, for which we are systematically taking important steps. That is what this is about, and I would like the debate to focus more on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u140	Mr President, I can only endorse what Mrs Smaers has to say. However, I would like to make the following point to Mr Vanvelthoven. It is, I think, in the long run his personal pleasure to remind the Minister of Finance that he will not earn his income, that he miscalculates and so on. That accusation is quite ridiculous, if you take the figures for 2017 and find that we were well above the budget with the revenue. There's more. With the Minister's fiscal stimulus policy, we are also on a growth path, and it is even possible that we will achieve a budgetary balance, all thanks to income. The triad that the minister does not respect the income is of zero and no value whatsoever. It is completely in stark contrast to reality, which shows that revenue even exceeds expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u141	Mr President, I was not convinced by everything I could hear on the benches of the majority with quite contradictory things. On the other hand, I would like to address those who believe in this measure and its budgetary scope on the CD&V. Make sure there is a separate code that will allow you to check that the budget target is well achieved! What happened with the Cayman tax? The Court of Auditors came to say that everything was mixed in the furniture discount and that it was therefore impossible to verify whether the budgetary objective had been achieved or not. Be careful not to get caught and not to be told in a few months, by the Court of Auditors, for example, that it is impossible to verify the budgetary objective because there you will have been widely scolded. See if Febelfin can't help you through internal statistics but be careful not to get caught! I believe that all the conditions are in place for us to find ourselves in the same scenario as the Cayman tax. I think you do not have a formal agreement that, if it is verified that the budgetary objective is not achieved, there will be compensatory measures. No, you have an agreement on the evaluation. Each one will come with his own methodology and each one will come with his own numbers. Good luck contradicting the figures that the Minister of Finance will give you! For the rest, I repeat, the "anti-abuse" provision does not look like anything. It covers conversions of nominal securities into non-nominal securities and also covers transactions that occur after 9 December. You are completely missing the target and, moreover, you have not responded either to those who told you that, since July, some have arranged transfers of ownership of assets in order to be able to spread wealth and avoid taxation. I will conclude, Mr President, because a whole series of other things have been said. I am very concerned about the reliability of the system from a legal point of view. The budgetary objective does not seem to me to be at hand. As the committee says, Febelfin says, so does the National Bank. Mr. Vanvelthoven called him back. From then on, I feel once again that we come here with a kind of masquerade despite an intention that we could have adhered to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u142	Mr Laaouej, I would like to comment on your final point, the proceeds and the anti-abuse provisions. Firstly, following the opinion of the Council of State, the government has taken a number of measures. A newspaper that is certainly not a supporter of the securities tax, De Tijd, published an article on Saturday 27 January which states, among other things, that the distribution of the securities portfolio across multiple accounts is not a solution. Taxpayers will have to indicate on the tax return whether they have one or more securities accounts. Secondly, the shares can be registered but if they were not converted before 9 December 2017, the tax will be paid for one more year. Some say that the anti-abuse provisions do not apply to funds and bonds. However, this has not been proven. Now people are talking about escape routes for the securities tax by putting bonds in their name. Well, this is a very difficult slope. De Tijd also quotes a banker: "When it comes to 500 000 euros, you pay a tax of about 750 euros. When it comes to EUR 1 million, a EUR 1 500 will be paid." I read in the newspaper and I hear that tax specialists also say that for people who have a securities portfolio of EUR 1 million and have to pay a tax of EUR 1 500, the whole process of converting shares into names is not worth it. That certainly doesn't get the return on just paying the tax. I'm just gonna read what tax lawyer Anton van Zantbeek says about that. "It is said that people will go abroad with their money to avoid the security tax. Effective moving is shooting a cannon at a mosquito." First of all, a lot of slopes have already been closed with regard to the circumvention mechanisms envisaged, inter alia, by the provisions which the government has registered following the opinion of the Council of State. Secondly, as far as taxation is concerned, it is not desirable for people with securities accounts of EUR 500 000 to register shares or set up tax arrangements. They will then pay much more to the bank or to a tax advisor than the amount of the tax. There is a lot of discussion about the proceeds, but let us wait and see. The forecasts are based, among other things, on figures from the National Bank and the masses foreseen for this purpose. We'll see what the final proceeds will be. It is true that I have sometimes expressed doubts about the proceeds of certain taxes. Sometimes that was right. When new taxes, such as the Cayman tax, are levied, it is not clear how much these taxes will pay. In the case of the caiman tax, which would raise EUR 560 million, we have not been able to verify the proceeds. Mr Laaouej, you say in advance that the EUR 250 million of the present measure cannot be achieved, while you do not know how investors and banks will react. Banks are considered to do so in a fair and fair way, including with regard to government. The commitment of the legislator will have to be fulfilled by the banks. Will the result be EUR 170 million, EUR 195 million or EUR 235 million? No one can say that at the moment. This impact tax is not what we wanted in the first place. We are still in favour of an added value tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u143	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u144	Mr Cheron, I am eagerly awaiting the speech of a member of Ecolo-Green, to hear how your group intends to burden resources, what income thresholds you will build, how Ecolo-Green will apply them. I have been waiting three years for a detailed taxation of Ecolo-Green because your group wants to get EUR 4 billion out of its assets.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u145	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u146	Mrs. Almaci, well, be specific. You've never been concrete. I have never heard from Mr Calvo how that will be implemented. Since you now get 20 % in the polls, you've also gotten a little scared of the middle class, which you don't want to hit in the head, just like in other files. With regard to capital taxes, I would like to know what amounts you intend to pay. We are talking about a securities tax that will raise EUR 250 million. From Green I would like to hear what thresholds you set and how you will implement them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u147	Before I give the floor to Mrs Almaci, I would like to remind you of the agreement that the interruptions would be limited to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u148	Mr President, the question was addressed to the President of the Green Group. The President of the Green Group will therefore reply. For ten years now, in Parliament, a Green Bill has been before us on the introduction of a capital card. CD&V can approve that immediately. That is the key to the whole debate. Open Vld and the MR wouldn't applaud for that. The question is when CD&V will finally confess colour, because that is the whole key to the power debate. You try to swim around there every time, but if that has been mapped out, we can introduce our capital efficiency levy. That is a concrete answer to the challenge. You know this very well to that fundamental question about a capital cadet, Mr Van Rompuy, we do not even get a reply from CD&V on the one hand. The only thing that follows is silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u149	Mr President, I listened carefully to Mr. Van Rompuy in his first part, where he related a number of arguments drawn from an article by De Tijd. However, sometimes you have to be wary of those who reassure you because they may have an interest in having this tax built on particularly high ambitions in terms of budget performance. It is a way for them to calm the political game a little and, above all, the ardour of those who would like to broaden the scope of application. Beware, however, of those who say that everything is well, that this tax will bear its fruit. Maybe they're interested in it not working and so making you think it's going to work. When I talk about splitsing, it's not in the head of the same person. I'm talking about someone who has organized himself to transfer property to other people, especially within the same family. It is not a split on behalf of the same taxpayer, it is a split on behalf of several taxpayers. And you don't answer that. Second, there is not just the transformation of nominative assets into non-nominative assets, or non-nominative assets into nominative assets. There is also a change in the nature of financial assets. To transfer a financial asset subject to the tax to a financial asset that is not subject to the tax. We have had a whole debate on hedging products that are used for speculative purposes, which today constitute the bulk of financial flows, and hence underlying assets. Another point which I think is very important too, the Court of Auditors – contrary to what you say, Mr Van Rompuy – has integrated the problem of behaviour change. And precisely because the government does not take into account changes in behaviour, the Court of Auditors cannot validate the budgetary objective. Mr President, I will stick to this and let the debate continue with other colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u150	Mr Van Rompuy, I too am a reader of De Tijd. You have just listed a number of avoidance mechanisms that are difficult according to Time. For example, the portfolio of securities spread across multiple accounts is not a solution and it is not as obvious, as you rightly point out. However, the Time today indicates a number of other circumvention mechanisms that you may have deliberately not mentioned. Usually the securities account is now in the name of one partner, but it can easily be divided between two partners to get below the EUR 500 000 limit. De Tijd also indicates today that a tax will be paid if, as from 1 January of this year, those securities are placed in a company, a legal person. Then one has to pay the tax if the input has the sole purpose of escaping the tax. My question then is how the tax authorities will determine what is or is not the sole motive for such a contribution. This will lead to many discussions between the tax authorities and taxpayers. So there are still possibilities of circumvention, also according to De Tijd.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u151	I don't want to stretch this, but it's about the substance of the case. You are talking about a couple who wants to do fiscal optimisation. I read Time, too. It states that it must be borne in mind that if you transfer certain amounts as a couple, for example in the case of divorce or in order to avoid the tax, you can be covered by the legislation on donations. And a gift tax could be higher than the security tax of 0.15 %. I'm not a banker and I don't know how the transactions will go, but the more I read some specialists write, the more I realize that all this is very complicated. A couple who divorces and arranges a number of matters through donation then falls under the legislation on the donation. A donation also has certain percentages, which one has to compensate. Some say the figure of 0.15 % is ridiculously low. They're laughing at that. I find it difficult to imagine that someone who has EUR 1 million in investments, and therefore has to pay EUR 1 500, will set up a huge tax structure to avoid that tax, with the risk of being eligible for other taxes. The same applies to a company. If, as from 1 January, one places its securities in a company in order to escape the tax, the question is how the tax authority will determine whether or not it is the sole motive for such a contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u152	Mr Van Rompuy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u153	Mr President, it bothers me that this matter is being discussed in slogans. If you look at this measure, you can see that this is actually much better than you think, Mr Vanvelthoven. The escape routes will be much more limited than you think. In fact, I believe that a yield of EUR 250 million is certainly feasible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u154	Mr. Speaker, Mr.Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is part of a coherent vision that governs a number of measures aimed at stimulating employment, purchasing power and supporting businesses, in particular SMEs. It also aims to ensure the long-term financing of pensions and our social security, but also to strengthen social cohesion. In this sense, the proposed securities tax reflects our government's commitment to greater tax fairness. It is part of a fairer fiscal policy and reflects the desire to make everyone contribute to the collective effort. Its aim is to impose the highest assets at a moderate rate of 0.15 per cent on an annual basis. The threshold chosen is related to the assumed budgetary return on securities accounts with an average value of financial instruments equivalent to or exceeding EUR 500 000. Taxable financial instruments are known to be relatively volatile, facilitating financial transactions designed to produce enrichment more than a long-term investment. For this reason, nominative shares held in a stock register, not in a securities account, fall outside the scope of the tax. Similarly, the share held by a life insurance or pension savings plan is not concerned, not in itself having the same income volatility. From a procedural point of view, a simplified application of this tax for banks has been foreseen. We, for our part, welcome the anti-abuse measures which will partially ensure their performance by combating attempts to escape and which will make the implementation of the text more effective. It is a draft part of a comprehensive agreement, consisting of essential and necessary reforms. The socio-economic results of the policy are tangible and demonstrate that our government's solutions are relevant and are aimed at gradually improving the well-being of our citizens. Therefore, our group will support this tax fairness project, whose revenues will contribute to the financing and continuation of the necessary structural reforms. As to the point made by some Members, I note that, when Mrs Pas states that Flanders will contribute more than Wallonia to the tax on securities accounts, no member of the opposition is blushing. But when we know that GDP in Flanders accounts for 59% of Belgian GDP, whereas in Wallonia it represents 23%, we can actually think that the Flemish contribution is likely to be greater than that of the Walloons. On the other hand, when my colleague Mr. Van de Velde says tax reform will benefit Flemish SMEs more, so there's an outcry. But when we look at the figures, 56% of SMEs are located in Flanders, compared with 27% in Wallonia. So of course, the 56% will benefit more than the 27%, it's purely mathematical. And I am beginning to understand why we want to review the Pact of Excellence in the Wallonia-Brussels Community, because obviously we can no longer calculate!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u155	Mr President, today's debate in Parliament is a real spectacle, because it is not about who gets the plume or who gets the trophy. On the other hand, it is a mirage, because we are debating something that will not actually exist. I also said that in committee, not because I am so well inspired, but because I read what our main advisory body, the Council of State, gives us and because I read what top tax lawyers write about it. So we are having a debate on something that will not be and will not yield anything. The intention may be to tax something, but in the facts that will not be the case. That is why it makes little sense for us to go along with such a policy and to approve something that we know will not be forthcoming. I am glad that there is another Open Vld'er present, the one and only, Mr Van Biesen. Of course, it would be a good thing for Annemie Turtelboom, who has been nominated as a member of the European Court of Auditors and also important, to shed light on the revenue from the tax. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, in the newspaper, Carina Van Cauter said about the deferred draft law on searches, which we have just talked about: "There is little point in proposing a solution that you might suspect will be killed before the Constitutional Court." That's what Open Vld said yesterday about the draft law on searches. What Mrs Van Cauter said is very sensible. Unfortunately, Open Vld does not use the same argument here. The Council of State has twice held that it violates the principle of equality. He warns of a destruction by the Constitutional Court. Following the first opinion of the Council of State, there were quite a few reactions from the majority, especially from the N-VA angle, that the Council of State made to politics, statements that are regrettable. Well, I have read these opinions thoroughly. The Council of State does not say that the legislator may treat taxpayers differently. Nor does the Council of State say that the legislator should not make choices. Nor does the Council of State say that the legislator should not pursue any policy. We can all do that from the Council of State. The only thing the Council of State says is that there must be proper accountability if there is a difference in treatment. Even after the redrafting of the draft law, accountability by the Council of State has been assessed as inadequate. I do not understand why the legal text should not be made better, if you really want the securities law to pass the constitutional test and have real effect. Why can't the text be rewritten for a bit, so all the objections lapse? We have tabled amendments. We have retabled it in plenary today. Those are not amendments to bully you. These are amendments to ensure that the Securities Act will also be applied effectively. If these amendments are simply wiped off the table, this can only mean one thing, namely that the present impact tax is designed to fail. That is my fundamental criticism. Those aren't bullshit statements. These are comments which I have made repeatedly. I understand the presentation by Mr Smaers of CD&V. According to her, the government has already done a great deal and she therefore wanted to talk about the essence. The essence is the impact tax, but it came up with other arguments. I can also mention other things. The first thing that CD&V got off for the sake of fiscal fairness was the surplus tax on shares. It had to be made possible to enforce the principle of fair taxation. That tax didn't come. The second was the speculative tax. That was the trophy back then. I remember that there was a lot of discussion in the majority at the time, because none of the majority wanted that tax. That has also been shown in the facts, because the securities tax was reversed; it was abolished because it cost more money than it cost. Now a third attempt is made to realize the fair tax, which CD&V rightly insists on. But as I have just said, that tax will not come into reality. We are making a number of suggestions, which I will briefly explain, to improve the legal text on securities tax. They're reasonable adjustments. I am aware that the majority of the opposition's text does not even consider it worth investigating and by definition votes away. But we are making reasonable proposals here and they make the difference for us between the adoption of the bill, because we are convinced that the tax can really be there, and disapproval, because we are still convinced that the tax will never be there in the facts. I would like to briefly explain the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u156	Mr Vanvelthoven, before you do that, there is an interruption by Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u157	So we will now have a series of suggestions from the sp.a group, which you have discovered in a search for fiscal fairness. We have heard a great deal about this. You mean that the tax system you left behind is fiscally unfair, because you finally had the opportunity to achieve fiscal fairness on previous occasions. Apparently, you expect the majority to do what the majority you were part of never succeeded. Your ambition for the government is higher than the ambition you once had when you were in the majority. That is quite right, and we are doing better in this area. You said earlier that we should talk about the essence. We must indeed make a number of summing ups. In any measure taken by the government in this respect, you have always put forward the little straw that it would bring nothing, that it would be a fart in a bottle. Today, however, we see that revenue as budgeted by the government and the Finance Minister has been achieved, contrary to what you have put forward here. Moreover, it cannot be denied that the totality of the measures taken by this government has led to a recast whereby the capital component is more responsible for income than before. If you add that the overall tax burden is reduced, a simple rule of three is enough to decide that we have not only been given a shift to the capital component but that we could add a reduction in the overall tax burden. That is quite an achievement that we are extremely proud of, especially because the revenue is on the track. The added figures, Mr Vanvelthoven, contradict any criticism that you have put forward in the past.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you all that a maximum interruption of two minutes may take.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u159	I'll give you a short response. Firstly, it is not because the proceeds of another measure are slightly higher than was estimated that we should not criticize the fact that other new measures sold here by the majority to Parliament as additional revenues, actually do not bring us anything or even cost us. That's all I care about. Secondly, under the previous government, we have tried to get the added value tax on shares through. That didn't work, that's right. The Liberals have stopped this, as the Liberals have stopped the CD&V proposal under this government. That's right. You can blame us for that, but in the future the liberals will be so small that we will get added value tax on shares. One cannot get everything through, Mr De Roover. I've read over the past few weeks that the N-VA absolutely wanted to reverse the core exit. I have a feeling you won't get through it either. We'll see. Unfortunately, a government does not get everything through. We have never been so close to an absolute majority that we have had that illusion. To get something through, it takes a fight. If, at some point in this legislature, CD&V also comes up with an added value tax on shares, we are very happy to support it. We will continue to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u160	It is perfectly true, Mr Vanvelthoven, that if we do not have an absolute majority, we will not get everything through. However, I note that we are getting more through the pursuit of fiscal fairness than you have ever succeeded.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u161	Everyone sees what they want, I only know that CD&V, an important partner of yours in this government, from the start of this legislature, felt it was important that, in the context of fiscal justice, there should be an added value tax on shares. It didn't come. Then something else had to come up, now the securities tax has to come up and it will not come up again. It is not just a plea from our group or from the opposition. It's a plea from CD&V that we like to support. If CD&V asks, there must be a reason for that. What reason? On the other hand, there is something else that is possible and because it is really necessary in the context of fair taxation. Mr President, after Mr De Roover's speech, I feel that once again there is no incentive to listen to proposals for improvement, that people know better, that what the opposition says is not worth listening to. (...): CD&V listens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u162	CD&V listens or she hears us, that's something else. The government has indeed added an anti-abuse clause to the draft law following the second opinion of the Council of State. This means that shares held in a securities account and converted from 9 December into registered shares held in a stock register will be subject to securities tax for another year. Mr Van Rompuy just said that the avoidance spear costs so much money to the people that they do not do that avoidance. If that's true, I don't understand why this rule comes in. It's either one or the other. Mr Minister, either your story is true that people will not avoid it and then the provision is not necessary, or an anti-abuse clause is necessary in our opinion. However, I wonder why that date was set on 9 December 2017. Why the hell is that date December 9, 2017? The measure was announced on 26 July 2017. It is therefore logical that this date should be taken to allow the anti-abuse clause to enter into force, because from then on the parties concerned knew what would follow. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u163	Colleague, the measure was announced in the Summer Agreement. We leave out the fact that the details were only known in September 2017. What is preventing this majority from establishing that everything that has happened since the announcement is still such a provision in the past in legislation, which is considered to be circumvention? The Minister now proposes in Parliament to consider this as circumvention, albeit not from July 2017 but from 9 December 2017. So let us just set the date correctly, namely at the time of the announcement. That is when some might have been triggered in order to avoid the tax. So let us move that date to July 26, 2017. Mr President, that is a first proposal we are making. A second proposal has just been referred to by Mrs Pas. The second anti-abuse provision concerns the transfer of securities accounts to a legal person. That measure shall only apply from 1 January 2018 and only if the sole purpose of the contribution is to avoid the tax. I read what the Council of State is presenting to us on this matter. The Council of State notes that it is not clear why it is stipulated that the sole objective must be to avoid taxation. If the person concerned also does the creation for another reason, such as inheritance planning, no application of the anti-abuse clause in question could be made. Again, not me, but a tax specialist, especially Govaerts, says that it will be very difficult for the tax authorities to prove that getting away from the tax is the only goal. If we are warned of this by tax specialists and by the Council of State, then I propose that the text be amended. My second amendment increases the effectiveness of the government's anti-abuse clause. We have tabled two other amendments, particularly in order to make it possible to monitor the situation. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we would like to see the impact tax actually applied. However, today's approval is not a guarantee of this. On the contrary, all the opinions we get on this point indicate that there will be no impact tax in practice. Tax lawyers are ready to go to the Constitutional Court, which will destroy the text in the light of the opinion of the Council of State. With a few amendments, we are still trying to correct this with good intentions. I would ask you to seriously consider our amendments and to improve the law by adopting our amendments. In that case, you can count on our vote. If, however, you think that we are talking nonsense about the Council of State and tax lawyers, then you are voting our amendments down, but you do not have to count on our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u164	Mr President, the objective of tax justice deserves me to rise to the rostrum. In any case, it deserves better than the text that was submitted to us by the majority. It is one of the pieces of the gallery of horrors currently under debate in this Parliament. There are the 500 euros of casual work defied, which make all the interlocutors react; the cash for cars measure that is not up to the ambitions and needs regarding the company car and the reduction of cars on the roads; the text on home visits discussed in the context of current issues; various pension measures... All these pieces have common characteristics: they are, in law, poorly elaborated. The Conseil d'État takes it up in a systematic manner without any reaction or correction in the majority's head; they are not concerted and, when the opposition manages to convince the majority to hold hearings, too often in a rush, one realizes that, too often, the actors on the ground have not been consulted or listened to because the majority is used to being right. If the objectives are sometimes generous – we can share, Mr Van Rompuy, the aim of making the income of capital contribute more – it is only on paper, because they cannot be met by what appears in the texts. The majority agreement ultimately holds only thanks to a form of mutual and permanent blackmail within the majority: "If you do not vote my text, I will not vote yours." Everyone will vote for texts which, in the end, are not balanced, are not effective, do not meet the stated objectives, or even are completely problematic. Everyone can be wrong. But rather than admitting that it is possible to do better, to rely on the expertise of the field actors, you prefer to press the accelerator, to run into the fog. This text does not in any way meet the ambitions of tax justice and few people, within the majority, assume it. Mr. Deseyn made an honourable effort and some members of the CD&V still believe in it. But the other parties of the majority support him with their lips. Mr Piedboeuf, it is worse in the corridors, because the word is free. Some have expressed their prognosis...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u165	The usual allusions of some members of the opposition suggest that something is happening there. Mr Gilkinet, have you heard me say anything else in the corridors than what I just said?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u166	I wasn't aiming at you, but I was about to name a name.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u167	In this case, don't mention my name, Mr Gilkinet! I take care of everything I do, which is not always the case with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u168	Can you clarify, Mr. Piedboeuf?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u169	I did just like you: I didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u170	Don't say anything! I will quote a member of the majority who spoke clearly in the Finance Committee by pronouncing a decision of the Constitutional Court that would break this text as others have been. The fairness tax was cited and, at the time, I remember discussing it with Ms. Onkelinx saying that her trophy, like the one on the CD&V, is not so beautiful. He's not solid in law. This prognosis had been formulated by Mr. Van Biesen and more than a prognosis, I have the weakness to think it was hope. The announced revenue of this measure is invariably 254 million euros (magic figure fixed in the zomerakkoord and contained in the government's budget documents). Several bodies have tried to determine the source of this figure: firstly, the Court of Auditors, which advises us on an annual basis in the analysis of budgets; others have also tried to do so. The text has evolved. Its scope was, on the one hand, restricted by the government. On the other hand, many tax practitioners have expressed themselves, again this weekend, in De Tijd on the possibilities of escaping the tax. It is the situation on 9 December that will count in the application of the tax while the measure is known since 27 July. However, the expected amount of revenue related to the measure remains invariably EUR 254 million. You really need faith to believe in this recipe. The debate on tax revenues comes back regularly here. I heard Mr. From Roover, Mr. Van Biesen spoke about the effectiveness and quality of tax revenues. It is easy to present agglomerate figures in a known international context of low rates, where the price of oil is low, and to refuse that valuation be possible on a measure-by-measure basis. The work of a government, of a majority, of a Minister of Finance is also measured by measure. When a capital gains tax is announced, it is normal that the effects of the tax should be assessed. In this case, however, this will not be possible since it has been cancelled. When we announce the Cayman tax, it is normal that we should be able to assess its effect. But you have decided not to allow it. The same applies to the Diamant tax and the tax in question. Let us do our job on behalf of our citizens! In any case, as far as we are concerned, we are not among those who believe in this amount of EUR 254 million. All the reasons I have mentioned and the precise technical problems, including the threshold effect that has also been discussed, are a problem for us. In fiscal and social policies, an amount is actually set, which determines whether you are receiving or not receiving assistance. But we could also apply progressivity. Different levels could be provided to prevent the threshold from being so high. What justifies the fact that the holding of a security account to the tune of EUR 499 999 does not give rise to payment and that it does not give rise to payment from EUR 500 000? There were opportunities to be much more progressive and therefore fairer, as in the case of personal tax. The more levels, the more progressivity, the fairer a system is. This one isn't! Another question is the ability to control. We proposed that it be not the taxpayer who declares that he holds securities accounts, but that the return be made directly, as is the case for labour income, by the person who pays the salary here, in this case, by the bank that manages the securities accounts. There will therefore be no declaration by an external body, but merely a will for declaration. As far as the discount on savings books is concerned, we have seen that this system was not working. Finally, the measure is easy to circumvent by its effective date. We are again tabling our amendments, which propose to take into account the date of the first announcement of the measure, 26 July, in order to determine whether or not to pay this tax on securities accounts. Many operators have proposed to holders of securities accounts to modify the legal form of these securities accounts in order to avoid tax. There is a possibility of splitting accounts. We have tabled amendments to ensure that the anti-abuse measures announced are effective. They were refused. This is a bad text, a holed tax, declared intentions, with a mechanism that will not meet the intention of tax justice. If we're optimistic, we'll say it's a first step. If we're pessimistic, we'll say it doesn't look like anything. We will be between the two and we will abstain, welcoming the hard effort and struggle of the CD&V, but of course we will not be able to support a text with so many weaknesses. You are very far from the objective of tax justice, which would be to consider capital income as income from labour and to broaden the taxable base, and then to apply a much more progressive tax. An evaluation will take place, Mr Cheron, indeed, and we will come back to the subject at that time. We may then be able to amend the text. We wanted a much more progressive tax system, which would improve the incomes of middle- and upper-middle-class people who have less resources. It would make sure that those who really have a lot of money contribute more. It would be more efficient from an economic point of view and more just from a social point of view. This text is far from this ideal and we will not be able to support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u171	Mr President, for Mr Gilkinet, the objective of tax justice justifies going up to the rostrum. We can understand that. But, for me, the indigence of this text does not justify so much honor. So I'll stay in my place and tell you what I think. Finally, in the majority too, few speakers had the courage to come up to the rostrum to take on this text. Only Mr Deseyn took this risk, as others preferred to hide behind him by assigning him an alleged responsibility in this text. We talked a lot about a more equitable tax policy, which would make a greater contribution of capital to work, which would be based on a real contributory capacity on the part of everyone. Everyone can obviously agree with these beautiful formulas, but it really takes a lot of naivety to think that this text really fits in with the implementation of a more equitable tax policy. I prefer lucidity rather than naivety. And if I were to qualify the text that is being examined, I would use two words. The first thing that comes to mind is denial, because the proposal on the table runs counter to the general principles upheld by many of the parties of the majority. It must be said that this is not the first time that general principles have been invoked in order, finally, to apply them in a somewhat penaudic way, in a contradictory way. I say this by thinking in particular of all those who have always argued for taxation of capital income and not of capital itself. It was the traditional position of the MR, in particular, that always considered that it was a nonsense to tax capital. I said it in committee and I would like to repeat it here: the Prime Minister himself, in April 2015, made an interesting statement that reaffirmed the MR's line on taxation. He said: "There is a difference between taxing wealth income and taxing wealth. I think that taxing wealth is nonsense because it just helps to run away from wealth and, therefore, the added value for consumption is lost. The few countries that had embarked on this have all gone backwards, except for a few for ideological reasons." After hearing earlier from Mr. Piedboeuf that this measure was part of a coherent policy on the part of the government, I admit that I wonder a little about the consistency of the MR, because, between what the Prime Minister said in 2015 and what the MR accepts in 2018, there is a complete contradiction. The tax turn is a 180° turn. I don't want to target the Prime Minister's person, but, objectively, we wondered who was the father carrying this device. We understood that it wasn't the N-VA, since Mr. Van de Velde said very clearly that he would be reluctant to vote for this text. This confirms that we are in a complete turnaround from the original options. I do not think that the origin of the text is to be found on the side of the Open Vld. Mr. Deseyn explained that this was not at all a trophy for the CD&V. Finally, when the retroacts - the difficulties in which the majority found themselves in 2016 to close an agreement and the conditions under which white smoke came out of the government conclave in 2017, one can only come to a conclusion: the Prime Minister himself put on the table a proposal to reach consensus among his majority. It is indeed his role as leader of the majority, but in doing so, I think he has proved himself to be the true "father bearer" of this proposal, which contradicts what he said himself in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u172	Mr Dispa, there is an interruption of Mr. Van Rompuy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u173	With pleasure, Mr. President, and a lot of interest as always.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u174	Mr Dispa, you said that the N-VA is reluctant to vote for this. No. Mr. Van de Velde said, "Ik ben een koele minnaar." So he's a lover of the lyrics, a cool lover, but still a lover. So he certainly won't vote a contrecoeur. That's why I wanted to translate it. He's a lover. I don't know if it matters that he's a cool lover or not. If one acts in love, cool or not, one acts in love. He'll approve the securities tax, and I don't think he'll be a contrecoeur.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u175	Mr President, I still love Mr. Van Rompuy, in the Finance Committee like here in the Chamber! He points out, in fact, that paradox which characterizes all the parties of the majority who finally vote a text from which they do not know very well where it comes from, which they have never really defended, but which will end up being voted at the end of the sitting. If this is a denial – it is the first word that comes to mind when I analyse the device – I would like to say that it is also clearly a decoy. Because in reality, and this is probably the reason why some people are reluctant to vote for the text, it is well known that the objective will not finally be achieved. The scope of this security account tax has been so narrow that the target will not be reached. The tax targets securities accounts but does not apply to nominal shares. Persons holding often large assets through holding companies are not covered if their shares are nominal. The tax can be easily bypassed via the latter, via branch 23, via real estate. There may also be holdings on several securities accounts so as not to exceed the fateful threshold of 500,000 euros without fearing much. The tax applies to natural persons but not to companies. It is enough to read the press of recent months to realize that there are really a lot of loopholes. Experts follow each other to explain to the taxpayer how to escape this tax. So it's a decoy, which will miss its target. This is explained by the Council of State in its critical opinion: it clearly states that if the aim is to tax citizens who have capital, the exclusion of registered shares from the scope of the tax is anything but obvious. It's hard to be clear! It is both a missed objective and a text that causes discrimination. Not only because certain categories of shares will not be affected, but also because of the famous threshold of 500,000 euros, which has already been much discussed. It obviously takes a threshold – I followed the debates carefully. Thresholds are still needed in legislation, it is obvious. The problem is not so much the existence of this threshold but the absence of any motivation in its determination. This is where a real difficulty lies. What are the tax, economic and statistical criteria to justify setting this threshold at EUR 500 000? There's none. There is no objective element. In fact, in the Committee on Finance, the Minister for Finance was very frank. He said the criterion was "political". That's the term he used. I think that in doing so, he told the truth. It is indeed political. That's one way to say it's arbitrary. In any case, that is how you will be able to interpret all those who are already preparing to bring appeals before the Constitutional Court, because discrimination is so obvious that it weakens the mechanism that you claim to support, Minister. In doing this act of frankness, you finally threw an extra shovel of land on a device that you had already buried since, even before the Council of State pronounced itself, you had exposed in the press that there was a very high risk of discrimination. At that time, you were called to order by the Prime Minister, who had indicated that this agreement must be implemented absolutely. It will indeed be. However, you already have doubts about the legal validity of the scheme. The Council of State has made you right. Somewhere, you have confirmed this analysis by stating that the threshold in the text is a political threshold, and therefore arbitrary. All this makes it possible to consider that the device will not be operational and that, on the contrary, it will die fairly quickly from its beautiful death. I am not happy about this, but there is reason to fear that this tax on securities accounts will have the same fate as the speculation tax. Some said that as a result, the CD&V would have been trapped. I do not think it is the CD&V that will have been trapped, it is the citizen who will have been trapped, the one who, a little naively, could consider that there was a step towards more tax justice, towards more tax fairness. No, that citizen, he was deceived. The measure under consideration is both a denial and a false appearance. One word, to be in line with what colleagues have already said, about the expected budget return with this paradox of a figure of 254 million that was announced as early as the summer 2017 arbitrations and that was maintained against winds and tides. Even if we adapted the text and interpreted it differently, in fact, it's kind of a starting assumption. It takes 254 million. We realize, by listening to the representatives of the majority, that this objective will not be achieved. This is what has already been reported by all organizations that have reviewed this evaluation. The National Bank spoke of 163 million; Febelfin, from 170 million to 190 million; the European Commission also reduced the expected return. In short, no one, not even in the majority, believes in this amount of 254 million. It's still a little disturbing. While it may be said that other revenues will compensate for the shortfall, I would like to point out that this amount of $254 million represents a quarter of the funding for the new measures contained in Budget 2018 – a quarter of a return that is at least random. We will certainly have an opportunity to discuss this again when, in the coming months, we may have received figures that will have to be revised downwards in relation to the original ambition. For all these reasons, Mr President, the cdH Group will vote against this measure, because it considers it to be a game of dupes, a decoy, a false likeness. I'd like to say, "Sniff catcher." And the nigauds may be the ones who will fall into the field of application, since – honestly – they have been able to dispose, since last July, of all the information to escape this tax. If they really don't get away with it, it's just that she doesn't care about them. The nigauds may also be the ones who imagine doing tax justice in this way. For our part, in any case, it is a simulac in which we cannot participate and which we will not endorse. That is why we will vote against the government's text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u176	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium already has many capital taxes and capital gains taxes, such as taxes on real estate, the withholding tax which has already risen further under this government to 30%, inheritance taxes and so on. Those are all taxes paid by the masses. In addition, the security tax is a tax which does not burden the increase in capital but the core of the capital itself. It is not a capital gain tax but a capital tax on top of the higher inflation we already know in this country, which is half higher than in neighbouring countries. The effect tax is actually a tissue for bleeding. This tax will not at all create fairer, more transparent or simpler taxation. It is a clean-up measure, just like the speculative tax that has since rightly been removed. I hope that this impact tax will also be the case soon. Mr Van de Velde himself has already indicated that he does not like to break down the door. When Mr Laaouej says that this is a good start, I hold my heart completely. This charge of 0.15 % on securities accounts opens Pandora's box. You're effectively opening the door. It will be a matter of time before we increase the tax rate of 0.15 %, increase the taxable base or lower the limit of 500 000 euros. Thanks to you, the next government can do that very easily. If I hear colleagues today, it may not even last until there is another government. After all, I heard Mr Deseyn say that if the proceeds are not made, we must change them. There is therefore a good chance that one of the measures mentioned will be taken. Much has already been said about the EUR 254 million. According to the European Commission, the proceeds will be EUR 175 million. ING aims at 150 million euros, the National Bank at 163 million euros. We will see what we will see, but you will have already understood that we are not fans of a capital tax and certainly not of such a bogus tax. One thing that was said in the discussion only by the Flemish Interest is that this is yet another anti-Flemish tax. It is indeed an extra money flow from north to south, an extra transfer tax. It was a good attempt by Mr Piedboeuf when he said that this makes sense because the Flemings are with more and so they contribute 59 percent. If only it were 59 %! If I may believe some economists, 75 % to 80 % of this tax will be paid by the Flemings. It will be the upper middle class of pensioners and wealthy over 50s who will have to pay off just like the Flemish entrepreneur who put money aside to have a pension that comes close to that of the civil servants. They are the ones who will have to pay for the tax that you will approve today, but not the super-rich ones, many of whom live in Walloon Brabant and the rich Brussels municipalities and who have put their moving assets into all kinds of patrimony companies and holding companies; they are just the ones who will escape it. Much has already been said today, and I will not repeat it, but I have heard, Minister, that when this tax was on the table and an agreement was reached on it, you would have said that as an economist you thought the measure was nonsense, but that as a politician you had to defend him. I do not know if that is true because what is said in the corridors is not always true, but what is certainly true is that you, as an N-VA politician, are today choosing to defend this measure. As an economist, I also think this tax on effects is nonsense, and as a Flemish-Belangpolitica, I will of course not defend or support nonsense. Our group will certainly not support a new transfer tax. Besides, the Flemish interest has always opposed a further increase in the tax burden through new taxes and against any form of capital tax. This is Pandora's box that you will open later, and that is why our group will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u177	Mr. Chair, many speakers have already given the arguments that cast doubt on the legal feasibility of the tax. There are often animal metaphors to highlight the weaknesses of a tax system – sometimes referred to as tax boa. Here I would say that the government is inventing the tax eel! The eel is this fish that you never really catch and when you get there, there's still not much on your plate! This summarizes the feasibility of this bill. I would like to say that this is a bill that will make tax firms happy. The best tax practitioners are already working on how to escape the tax. I must admit that I am not a big supporter of the heritage tax either, but as long as I design such a tax, as much as designing it in a legal way. Here, there will be many causes of legal recourse and uncertainty. As others have pointed out, there will be tax optimisation. For example, it will be sufficient to divide its portfolio between several natural persons of the same family so as not to reach the amount of EUR 500 000. This is an operation that will be easy to carry out. In addition, nominative titles are excluded from the scope of the law by the government for reasons that are not very relevant and that are rather based on a rationale for reporting and perceiving at source. Again, it is entirely possible for taxpayers to convert their securities into investment funds or bonds into nominal securities that are not entered in securities accounts in order to avoid paying the tax. The Conseil d'Etat said that this distinction did not appear to be justified as to the purpose pursued by the bill. Although these securities are less easily negligible and, according to the Government's justification, they are frequently held for more active participation as shareholders in the life of the issuing company, there is no doubt that many investors will not hesitate to use this loophole in order to avoid paying the tax. As regards the contribution of a securities account to a legal person, I agree with the opinion of the Council of State. The anti-abuse provision contained in article 4, paragraph 5, does not fully achieve its objective. Indeed, if I use the terms contained in this provision, taxation can only take place if a contribution to a legal person has taken place from 1 January 2018, but also for the sole and sole purpose of escaping the tax. Good luck proving it! According to the Council of State, this wording raises questions as to the effectiveness of this anti-abuse provision and its conformity with the constitutional principle of equality and non-discrimination. It is therefore unrealistic to believe that legal certainty is guaranteed with such a provision and that an action cannot be brought before the Constitutional Court to challenge it. It is easy to distinguish where the problem lies. If a contribution from a security account occurred before January 1, 2018, regardless of the reasons given, the taxpayer will escape taxation. If a contribution to a corporation took place after January 1, 2018, but without the intention of escaping the tax – for example, for reasons of estate planning – the natural person holder will also escape the payment of the security account tax. To that end, my group is tabling an amendment to clarify the scope of the anti-abuse provision, stating in particular that the date of the submission of the Government's summer agreement on 26 July 2017 – others referred to it – should be taken into account in order to avoid that taxpayers who have already taken certain measures escape the payment of the tax. For this and for other reasons that have been mentioned by others, related to the legal uncertainty of this project, you will understand that we will not be able to support it. If we are in favour of better taxation of capital income as well as an increase in tax fairness and fairness, we believe that this should be envisaged by a more comprehensive reform. We must return to the basic lessons of the 1962 tax reform, through a globalization of taxable income and a revision of the tax brackets, in order to significantly reduce the tax burden on labour income alone, while imposing all income more equitably, regardless of the source. Finally, it is not the nature of the income that should determine the contribution to the tax, but the amount of the income, whatever the source, on a fair basis of revised increments and tax equality among all taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u178	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has already been a great deal of debate here on the impact tax: will we achieve the EUR 254 million or not? We can only see that other institutions were lower: the European Commission at EUR 175 million and the National Bank of Belgium at EUR 163 million. We can discuss whether we will achieve this or not, but on the basis of the principle of caution I would still register the lowest amount in the budget. If different figures are presented and the objective is that the budget should be correct, I would write in the lowest figure, hoping that it might be a little more effective and that the figures would be a little more positive. However, that is the choice that has been made: the securities tax has to raise EUR 254 million. I hear the Minister say that this was decided in the government and that the government will also look into it when the results are there. I hear from Mr Deseyn that there will be adjustments. Minister, I did not hear you say that there will be adjustments to this tax, because it must of course pass by the majority. We only know whether the result of 254 million euros will be achieved in 2019. We will then know the exact figures, and if I remember correctly, it will be elections. Not this majority will then have to justify whether or not this amount has been reached. Of course, there is also the impact tax. There's just a capital tax for this. I have often heard many of my fellow Members from the majority say: capital tax, no way! There's never gonna be one. Even if it was a capital gain tax, a number of fellow Members were not in favour of it. Anything can happen here, of course. We also saw that with the mystery calls that wouldn't come: they came anyway. Now the worst form, which one absolutely did not want: a capital tax. This is, of course, the result of an à la belge compromise: this security tax was necessary by linking it to the reform of corporate tax and the EUR 500 untaxed additional income from the Summer Agreement. What was all that about, it was rather the agreement of the four seasons. I think it will take even longer, because the EUR 500 additional income has also been put on the long track. We are now discussing a security tax, a capital tax that needs to be approved here. I am sure that some of my colleagues from the majority secretly hope that this tax will still be destroyed by the Constitutional Court. I may not be able to say it, but I almost suspect some people have done the legislative work in such a way that this might be the result. I get the feeling some people are hoping for this. I have already heard a number of colleagues say that the Constitutional Court may well destroy this law because there is no justification for the distinction in determining the border. I heard Mr Vanvelthoven say this, among other things. However, such a responsibility would have been very simple. There was no need to say more than that the EUR 500 000 limit is intended to make the whole rich pay and someone is very rich when he has a securities account with EUR 500 000. However, this accountability was not given and therefore it is possible that this law will be destroyed. When I look at the workability and feasibility of this law, I am talking above all about the feasibility for the banks, I get a déjà vu. In the previous legislature I saw here the tax of 21 % + 4 % passed. However, that did not work on any sides and it was decided to charge everyone 25%. Now I see the same thing happening, because the banks will have to implement this measure. The question then is whether this measure will not cost more than it can afford. I am afraid to repeat how many millions of euros the banks had to cough up at the time in order to come up with a system to collect that rich tax. The banks are also now wondering exactly how to determine this. What about unlisted shares? How will we determine the exact value? There will also be a lot of discussion about this because what is the exact value of my portfolio of securities? We have added anti-abuse provisions to that law. Putting capital into a company was an opportunity to escape. From 1 January onwards we will have to pay taxes if we can prove that this change, the transfer of capital to the company, was purely to avoid the tax on securities. I wish everyone every success in proving that when someone placed their assets in a company, it was purely and simply to avoid the securities tax. We've had the story of the shares by name. There is now the anti-abuse clause, in the sense that shares in name are excluded. However, those who have done so after 9 December will still have to pay for one year, but they will have to do the dance in the following years. And then I hear fiscalists now saying that the security tax will not apply to funds or registered bonds. I'd like confirmation or denial from you, Minister. Is that right? If that is not the case and they cannot escape, then perhaps it is good that you now confirm that this is not the case and why. If not, are we going to assume that they are avoiding or escaping the tax? I hear Mr Van Rompuy say that such conversion also costs a lot of money and that it is therefore necessary to check whether it is worth the coal. Moving abroad is not the solution either. What one does have is that foreigners also have securities accounts here and that they can easily go back to their home country with their money. Then not only the money and securities accounts disappear here, but also the stock market tax and VAT these people pay here. Those revenues could also disappear. I'm not talking about people who go abroad, I'm talking about foreigners who are here. Then we have the choice that every investor has when he says he's not gonna get into a stock account anymore Branch 21 and Branch 23 investment products. It doesn't include them either. If I consider all of this, the question arises as to whether the proposed amount is to be met. Perhaps it is hoped that the measure will disappear. It is clear, however, that I can only agree with Mr Tugendhat that once again a measure is being taken that will not affect the rich, as they have enough money for all kinds of tax advisors. The rich have been prepared for a long time, from the moment or possibly even before only a hint of the veil was lifted in July. If the rich don't pay the securities tax, then who will, if it is eventually implemented? That is the Fleming, the regular modal Fleming, which has saved well, because EUR 500 000 is not less. This is not about a poor son of a bitch, but about the Fleming who, as a self-employed person, has put aside a game. Once again, a measure will be paid by the Flemings, not like the increase in withholding tax. If you check where the most is spared, you will notice that more is spared in the north than in the south of this country. The savings index is also much higher in Flanders. The withholding tax thus affects mainly the Flemings; the proposed tax will affect more Flemings. Actually, I think that's dangerous. Perhaps, together with the majority, I should hope that the impact tax will be destroyed before implementation. If not, a subsequent majority in the securities tax can find a step stone to introduce a capital tax. In my view, the widening of the base and the increase in the percentages are not so difficult. It is clear, I think, that my group will vote against.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u179	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure has a historic aspect. In order to measure this, I will take up the excellent reference taken by my colleague Mr Dispa de L'Echo of 4 April 2015, in which Charles Michel explains that taxing wealth is an economic nonsense. I do not share this idea and will not demonstrate it, but I refer you to Piketty's work on it. What is historic is that it specifies that taxing heritage is nonsense, whereas the measure in question is nothing more than taxation of heritage. It's historical in the symbol. It's less effective. This security account tax is nothing more than an advertisement for the PTB's millionaire tax. All the shortcomings of this tax are answered in the PTB's millionaire tax. This is the counter-example to understand why the PTB millionaire tax is so necessary and useful! A few points of comparison: performance. Should there be a symbolic tax, a stand-off for austerity or a tax with real yield? The millionaire tax represents 8 billion euros and is an alternative to austerity. In this case, the tax on securities accounts is far from being an alternative to austerity. It is a manoeuvre to make the rich think that they are taxed and to make austerity accept as a good option. The amount of EUR 254 million is nothing at the yield level. But, as colleagues have said, there is little chance that this will be achieved. So, the goal is ridiculous, and it won't be achieved. Second point of comparison: the tax base. It is quite extraordinary to note – the Council of State has noted – that this government has decided to tax the heritage, but not all the heritage. We're gonna take one thing into account and not another. Why? Just by ease. If the explanatory memorandum is read, it is easier to do so. There is therefore no political justification for this discrimination between forms of heritage. Why is one heritage taxed and not another? No explanation is given. The millionaire tax is much more logical, much more just as well. All forms of heritage are globalized. With the exception of two capped exemptions, all assets are taxed. It makes much more sense. Third point of comparison: one rate or progressive rates. Here, we have only one rate for everyone. All those who enter the conditions pay this rate of 0.15 per cent. The millionaire tax provides for an increase: 1% above 1 million, 2% above 2 million, 3% above 3 million. There is an increase with rates that are obviously a little more significant than this small tax. My fourth point of comparison relates to the threshold effect. If you have 499,000 euros, you don't pay anything. But if you have 501,000 euros, you pay on the entire amount. The way we move from nothing to everything is quite extraordinary! With the millionaire tax, you start paying from the million euros with the exemptions you have to take into account, and you don't pay anything less than 1 million euros. Fifth point of comparison which is not anecdotal: is one really touching the greatest fortunes? This is an important point. Indeed, it is said that this tax is fixed in the interests of tax justice. If we touch the average fortunes, but the big fortunes, the billionaires, escape the tax, there is a problem. Unfortunately, while the millionaire tax targets the largest fortunes and more specifically 1% of the richest, large fortunes escape tax. Let us take, at random, Belgium's ninth fortune, which has 1.6 billion euros. I don't know if you know her. It's the Bertrand family. Luc Bertrand who is a shareholder of Ackermans & van Haaren will escape this tax because his wealth is held through holding companies. She doesn't go through security accounts. Therefore, it is completely exempt from taxation. I could take the examples of Albert Brother or of Spoelberch's family, but I quote this one because Luc Bertrand's daughter, who is also administrator of Ackermans & van Haaren probably participated in the Kern discussions, since she is the chief of staff of the vice-first. I guess she was able to say, "Looking at the security accounts is very good and very judicious. As a result, my family escapes the tax, but it's not the most important one." I come to my sixth point of comparison: with or without cadastre of fortunes? The millionaire tax is conceived with such an instrument. This makes sense, even if the tax is declarative and there is no need to wait for the cadastre to be put in place, since it is a means of verification. In this case, the Prime Minister explicitly refused to implement it. This is a way of saying to potential taxpayers who are liable for the tax: "Fraud at ease! Anyway, we'll have no way to see if you've cheated. So, go cheerfully." In short, what could have been a historical tax is a historically symbolic tax, a trophy. I am not going to go back to the discussion earlier to see if this is an umpteenth trophy of the CD&V that waltzes in the trash. In any case, his trophy basket should be changed to a larger model, given the number of them falling into it. That is why I regret to announce that we will not be able to support this project. A tax that would really affect the richest and would be a real alternative to austerity would have received our support, contrary to this symbolic tax that justifies austerity and does not hit the richest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u180	Mr President, this is a fascinating debate with many arguments back and forth. Since a number of technical aspects have already been discussed in detail in the Finance Committee, I shall be free to confine myself to four general remarks. Firstly, when we hear the discussion here in Parliament, among other things, we have the impression that Belgium does not have too much taxation on wealth and capital. However, when we look, for example, at the European level, we are in fourth place. Unfortunately, at the level of work, we remain in first position. But the distance with the others has greatly diminished. Here we are in fourth position. And we are adding an important tax in this context, namely the security account tax. I come to my second observation. Reference has been made several times to the opinion of the Council of State, in two parts. With regard to the first part, if you read this carefully, it is clear that the Council of State is asking the government for explanations and explanations on the choices made regarding the distinction between, for example, natural persons and legal persons, or taxed matter and non-taxable matter. We have provided this explanation in detail in the second explanatory memorandum. My third remark is next. A lot has also been said today about control mechanisms. They're there, aren't they? The administration shall at any time be able to request information from the holder or the intermediary. The holder's possession of a securities account may thus be checked by a request for information in all its facets. It also provides for sanctions, with penalties, both for the holder and for the intermediaries. In addition, of course, a fine is also imposed for each non-declaration and any late or inaccurate declaration. Depending on the nature and seriousness of the offence, this is a fine which may amount to between 10% and 200 %. My fourth observation concerns the estimates and I shall go into more detail on this. With regard to estimates, the figures have already been mentioned several times: the National Bank announces 165 million; the European Commission, 175 million; Febelfin speaks of a range between 170 and 90 million. The government, for its part, affirms and reaffirms a revenue of 255 million. However, if we quote the National Bank of Belgium and the European Commission, we must also have intellectual honesty to give the whole context. The National Bank of Belgium is based on the information the institution has on the state of wealth of families. The NBB makes it very explicit that it is almost certain that this is an understatement of the real situation. In other words, the amount of EUR 165 million referred to by the NBB is also an underestimate of the potential of the tax. The European Commission, too, makes it very clear in its assessment that it takes account of the fact that the taxable basis is not fully visible to it. So it also makes a very conservative estimate. Moreover, the three estimates referred to were made prior to the government's last intervention, with the introduction of a major anti-abuse clause, particularly in respect of registered shares, which should certainly benefit the return on the tax. I refer once again to the report that was drawn up following the discussion in committee. During this discussion, a number of more specific technical points were discussed in greater detail. As part of the overall Summer Agreement, the tax is an important factor in terms of estimates and expected revenues. The figures are confirmed by the government, i.e. EUR 254 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u181	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u182	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2837/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2837/7) The draft law contains 18 articles. The bill has 18 clauses. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u183	• 28 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (283 7/8) • 24 - Olivier Maingain cs (2837/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u184	• 29 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (283 7/8) • 30 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (283 7/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u185	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 32 - Peter Vanvelthoven cs (283 7/8) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u186	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u187	The Conference of Presidents of 31 January 2018 proposes to the Chamber of Representatives the extension until the end of February 2018 of the mandate of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry "Friendly Settlement in Criminal Matters'. The Conference of Presidents on 31 January 2018 proposes to the House of Representatives to extend the mandate of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry "Criminal Transaction" until the end of February 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u188	By letter dated 21 January 2018, Ms Naima Charkaoui announced her resignation as a Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Executive Board of the Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the fight against discrimination and racism. By letter of 21 January 2018, Ms Naima Charkaoui announced her resignation as a Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Board of Directors of the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism and Discrimination. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 8 (6) of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 June 2013 establishing an Inter-Federal Centre for Equal Opportunities and Combating Discrimination and Racism, the Chamber of Representatives should appoint a new alternate member for the duration of the current term of office, which runs until 2 February 2021. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 8(6) of the Cooperation Agreement of 12 June 2013 on the establishment of an Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism and Discrimination, the House of Representatives must appoint a new alternate member for the duration of the current term of office, i.e. until 2 February 2021. Since gender and language parity must be respected, the Chamber should appoint a Dutch-speaking female alternate. Since gender and linguistic parity must be respected, the Chamber must appoint a Dutch-speaking female alternate member. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 January 2018, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for a mandate of female, Dutch-speaking member of the Executive Board of the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the fight against discrimination and racism. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 January 2018, I propose that you publish an appeal to candidates for the Belgian Monitor for a term of office as a female, Dutch speaking member of the Board of Directors of the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Racism and Discrimination. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u189	In view of the oath of Mr Laurent Van Doren on 10 January 2018 as a French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services, the Chamber should, pursuant to Article 28 (1) of the Law of 18 July 1991, regulate the supervision of police and intelligence services and the coordination body for the threat analysis, appoint a first and a second French-speaking alternate member. In light of the swearing-in of Mr. Laurent Van Doren on January 10, 2018, as a Francophone member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, the House must, pursuant to section 28, paragraph 1, of the Act of July 18, 1991, Organic of the Control of Police and Intelligence Services and of the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis, proceed to the appointment of a first and second Francophone alternate member. The alternates shall be appointed for a renewable term of six years. The alternate members shall be appointed for a renewable term of six years. A member whose term of office shall expire before the end of the six-year period shall be replaced by his first alternate for the remainder of the term of office and, if he fails to do so, by his second alternate. A member whose term of office expires before the expiry of the six-year term shall be replaced for the remainder of his term by his first alternate and, if he resigns, by his second alternate. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 January 2018, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of first and second French-speaking alternate member of the Standing Supervisory Committee of the intelligence and security services. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 January 2018, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a call for candidates for the term of first and second French alternate member of the Standing Committee for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u190	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 January 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mr Koen Metsu and Ms Daphné Dumery) amending the Royal Decree of 8 July 2013 implementing the Law of 19 May 2010 establishing the Crossroads Bank of the Vehicles, No. 2916/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u191	- the motion for a resolution (Mrs Benoit Hellings and Mr Wouter De Vriendt) on the 2018 World Football Championship in Russia, No. 2918/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u192	- the legislative proposal (Mr David Clarinval and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne cs) on economic revival and strengthening social cohesion, No. 2922/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u193	- the legislative proposal (Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Georges Gilkinet) amending the Income Tax Code, No. 2923/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u194	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Nahima Lanjri) to equal the actual cohabiting partner to the spouse of the worker in the right to maintain the normal wage of the workers, the servants, the servants and the employees recruited for the service on inland waterway vessels, for days of absence on the occasion of family events or for the fulfilment of civic obligations or of civil contracts, No. 2924/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u195	- the proposal for a declaration (Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Wouter Beke, Vincent Van Peteghem, Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Eric Van Rompuy) revising Article 1 of the Constitution to insert a paragraph on the basic values of the State, No. 2925/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u196	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 31 January 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Mr. Koen Metsu and Ms. Daphné Dumery) amending the Royal Decree of 8 July 2013 implementing the Act of 19 May 2010 establishing the Carrefour desVehicles Bank, No. 2916/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u197	- the motion for a resolution (MM. Benoit Hellings and Wouter De Vriendt) on the World Cup in Russia in 2018, No. 2918/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u198	- the bill (MM. David Clarinval, Vincent Van Quickenborne et al., on economic recovery and the strengthening of social cohesion, No 2922/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u199	- the bill (MM. Gilles Vanden Burre, Kristof Calvo and Georges Gilkinet) amending the Income Tax Code, No. 2923/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u200	- the proposal for a law (Ms Nahima Lanjri) which assimilates the de facto partner to the spouse of a worker with regard to the right to maintain the normal remuneration of workers, domestic workers, employees and workers engaged in the service of inland navigation vessels, for days of absence during family events or for the fulfilment of civic obligations or civil missions, No. 2924/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u201	- the proposal for a declaration (MM. Servais Verherstraeten, Wouter Beke, Vincent Van Peteghem, Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Eric Van Rompuy) to review Article 1 of the Constitution with a view to inserting a paragraph on the fundamental values of the State, No. 2925/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u202	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u203	Mr President, together with my colleagues Vincent Van Quickerborne, Stefaan Vercamer and Jan Spooren, we are asking for the urgency of Bill 2922/1 concerning economic recovery and the strengthening of social cohesion. We justified this urgency by the fact that a whole series of provisions must quickly come into force, including private CIF loans, benefits for lone parents on low incomes, separate taxation of certain allowances, exemptions from the payment of the professional discount... All these measures are applicable for 2018 revenues. It is therefore urgent that this enter into force. There is also a shortening of notice periods in social matters. Contributions will also be reduced to encourage youth employment in the labour market. These measures have already been examined in committee. I am not confused that this text is the one that has been discussed in committee and from which we have withdrawn the part that is the subject of a conflict of interest. Of course, this part is not in the text proposed today. We're playing full transparency. But then, Mr President, we are asking for urgency about this very important text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u204	May I ask that all those who support the urgency stand up now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u205	Vote on Amendment No 25 by Georges Gilkinet cs on article 4. (2837/8) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 4. (2837/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[42]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs on article 4. (2837/8) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to Article 4. (2837/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Ms Laurette Onkelinx and Mr Alain Mathot voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 4. (2837/8) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 4. (2837/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Georges Gilkinet cs on Article 4. (2837/8) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Georges Gilkinet cs to Article 4. (2837/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[42]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs on article 4. (2837/8) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to Article 4. (2837/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Bogaert voted against. Mr Vanden Burre voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 30 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs on article 4. (2837/8) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to Article 4. (2837/ 8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u206	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 31 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs on article 7. (2837/8) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to Article 7. (2837/ 8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u207	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an article 14/1(n). (2837/8) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Georges Gilkinet cs to insert an Article 14/1(n). (2837/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 32 by Peter Vanvelhoven cs on article 16. (2837/8) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Peter Vanvelhoven cs to Article 16. (2837/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u208	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 77 Yes No. 23 No Abstentions 32 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2837/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2837/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Van Biesen has voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-01-54-plenair-ip213x.u209	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 8 February 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, February 8, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you a pleasant continuation. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 8 February 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 8 February 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
