ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u1	Bert Wollants, President First of all, I would like to welcome everyone to this meeting of the Interparliamentary Climate Conference, particularly my colleagues here at the table: Mr Peumans, Mr Picqué and Mrs Waroux. We can look at the arrangements for the work. After all, we must try to reach the end of our work as effectively as possible. In the joint statement in November 2017, we all proposed a resolution or a recommendation for COP24. We can then pass on certain points to our representatives who can interpret the position that is being drawn up here and put the right emphasis on it. I remind you of the agreed calendar. After some mail traffic we came to today's meeting. The intention is to retain the dates already agreed, 29 May and 25 June, as meeting days. Hopefully, then, we will have completed the drafting of the texts in good time. After all, it will not be equally obvious for everyone to plan additional meetings in September and October. Before we discuss the texts that have been collected by the secretariat, we should consider the procedure proposed in the Flemish Parliament's document. Then we will know how we can deal with the coordinated text proposal afterwards and how our work on this matter will proceed. I therefore propose that we proceed with that note. I suspect it has been discussed for the first time in the various parliaments. The interparliamentary consultation should therefore be able to take a decision on this matter. In the meantime, I have received a letter from the Walloon Parliament concerning that text, stating that it agrees with the document and that this is a basis for further work. I have not yet received any input from the other parliaments. I suggest that Members take the floor to see whether this procedure, as proposed, is workable. May I ask you, at the time when you are given the floor, to mention your name and Parliament, so that our services can properly record your statements. This is a little easier for the report that will be drawn up afterwards. I propose that we discuss the procedure first, as proposed. Are there any questions for clarification and positions to be taken? Who is asking for the floor in this first round of proceedings?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u2	Mr President, we have already had the opportunity to say so in various discussions, although we have not been able to reach the level of the federal working group. In any case, point 10 of the practical working method, which relates to amendments which could be tabled and which requires at least four political parties represented in two participating parliaments, seems to us to be a far too heavy constraint on the dynamics of the debates and the need for a democratic process. Bert Wollants, President : What do the other Members think about that? Does that passage deserve further clarification? In our Federal Committee on Climate Change, it was asked whether there were four parties per parliament, eight political groups in total, or four parties spread over the two parliaments. I don't know if the authors can clarify that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u3	Mr President, the author is on his way. I can say in advance that we are rather sticking to the Flemish text, because we have given it serious thought.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u4	It's about a clarification. Bert Wollants, chairman: Mr Vandaele, the question was originally put by Mrs Temmerman in our committee. The text now states that it concerns two parliaments and four political parties. The question arises as to whether four political parties per parliament are meant, i.e. eight political groups in total, or whether it is about four political groups, spread over at least two parliaments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u5	Yeah, it's all over the parliaments. Bert Wollants, Chairman: I see Mr Bothuyne nodding. I note that as the clarification requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u6	Your final interpretation is the right one, Mr President. Bert Wollants, chairman: Thank you very much. Has that solved the problem raised by Mr Nollet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u7	Mr President, when you talk about political parties, we have to understand that these are the political groups in the assembly. All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u8	Mr President, may I give a practical example? I suspect that the positions of sp.a and Green, when represented in the Brussels and Flemish Parliaments, will be similar. If sp.a and Green agree on a minority position on a particular subject, that is enough. Then we have two parliaments and four parties represented in accordance with this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u9	Mr President, should we not then change the formula "parties" to "groups (policies)", "fracties" in Dutch? This would be in line with the correct terminology of what is presented to us orally today. In the text, however, it is written: "Four political parties". Bert Wollants, President : For the sake of clarity, the Flemish Parliament's proposal refers to political groups and not to individual parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u10	So it's only a translation problem. Okay. Bert Wollants, President : Is there an agreement on point 10, if we make it "fractions"?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u11	There are very many political groups in the Brussels Parliament, because according to our procedure we have separate groups by language. Ecolo and Green are two separate groups there. That is not the case at the federal level. I call for a sufficient balance to be struck between the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking representations from Brussels. I fear that the offer of four political groups to the Brussels Parliament will not be enough. I would also like to call for sufficient women to be part of the delegation. Bert Wollants, President: For the sake of clarity, I repeat that it concerns point 10, which states that at least four groups are needed for a minority amendment, spread over two parliaments. As far as I can tell, therefore, you may involve as many groups and as many women and men as you wish. That's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u12	If it is divided between several parliaments, it suits me. In the Wallonia Parliament, there are three groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u13	Mr President, I would like to repeat what you have just said once again for the sake of clarity. It is a double key, it is both and, therefore, two parliaments and four groups. Bert Wollants, President: As Mr Bothuyne's example pointed out, this arrangement makes it quite easy to reach a minority amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u14	Mr President, I take up the proposal of the Co-President of the Assembly. If I understood correctly, you would have fired three groups, since at the level of the Walloon Parliament there are only three groups. Let us say three political groups represented in at least two participating parliaments, rather than four, so that each one can be represented! It also responds to the request of our Dutch-speaking colleagues in Brussels. That is an insistent suggestion, Mr. Chairman. Bert Wollants, President : So you propose to replace four groups with three groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u15	Mr President, it seems to me that we are mixing two different issues. I understand Mr de Lamotte's concern, but we are currently talking about point 10 on minority amendments, in other words amendments that would not have been taken up by a parliamentary delegation. It is obvious that if the three groups in the Walloon Parliament wish to table an amendment, the Walloon delegation will submit one in the context of the previous points. In this case, however, this is an additional proposal for minority amendments. Therefore, I do not think that 4 should be replaced by 3. On the other hand, on the previous points, the procedure is presented as successive round-trips until consensus is reached. The logic is well understood, but it should not be prolonged. I therefore wonder whether it would not be possible to foresee that, in certain circumstances, we would have a text on which all the assemblies would stand by means of amendments. In this way, all delegations would vote on all the amendments, instead of voting on them each in their own corner, after which we would end up with a sum of documents that were not necessarily converging or very legible. It would have to be possible - but I have the impression that the procedure in force does not allow it - for the existence of a basic text, drawn up in consultation or by a single assembly. The various delegations could add amendments before each of them took a position on them. Bert Wollants, President : I'm just going to consult the meeting on that proposal. The starting point seems to me to be that people are working with a dead text and that the changes that are being made return to our gremium to be discussed. On the basis of this, a new text can then be drawn up which can be discussed in the various parliaments. You propose to do so in the form of amendments, not in the form of a broader text proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u16	Colleagues, we have to be careful. Our meeting doesn't have a formal statute. If we are discussing amendments here, I do not know how this should work without the coverage of the respective parliaments. At the last meeting, we had already agreed to move as far as possible from a consensus in the respective parliaments. We would then try to clear the differences between the different assemblies. If there is no consensus, minority amendments would be allowed. That seems to me to be a very logical and clear way of working. If each Member can submit their individual amendments, after which everyone can comment on all these amendments, then I guarantee that we will have a telephone book of amendments tomorrow and that we will have to hold a marathon session, which in the end no legislative legitimacy can be given. Let us, above all, keep it simple and continue the delicate procedure we have set up here. Mr President, once you have read the texts, you will see that some of them are in line with your concerns. You have been able to ventilate and formulate your concerns and those of your group. A number of issues were included in the text. You can still keep amendments on the matters with which that has not happened. So I think the proposed method is a good one. It is very difficult to devise another method, which would not be a flagrant violation of our Constitution and our institutions. Bert Wollants, President: Can we find a consensus on the proposal as presented here, with the limited modification that it is about political groups and not about political parties? In this way, are we trying to come up with a text of consensus that allows each parliament to do its job with the proposed text? [[Assent]] We'll write it down like this. Then we can proceed to the text proposal, which has now been processed by the services. I will explain a little about the method used to compose the text. We have received text proposals from various parliaments over the last few days and week on what should be included in the interparliamentary resolution. It was chosen to put together as much as possible the issues from different parliaments, which belong together or which are exactly the same. This will lead to a logical build-up, but every parliament will be able to find out what has come out of its gremium. This makes a number of passages very similar, of course, in those places where different texts were submitted. It is indicated in colour when a parliament has delivered almost the same text but has added or changed a number of words. On this basis, it is desirable that we examine the way in which we will process the substantive text. I must add that, as far as the Federal Parliament is concerned, there is a passage in square brackets. That is a passage on which there was no consensus in the Federal Parliament, neither on the wording nor on the content. There was therefore no agreement to include this passage in the text, but neither was there any agreement to leave it out. The text should therefore be read with this in mind. We have received from the Flemish Parliament a text in which a minority position of sp.a. and Green is formulated. Given that it is not clear what status this text has, minority amendments are in principle only dealt with at a subsequent stage, this position is currently not included in the coordinated version. If that position is maintained, I suspect that the minority amendment procedure on the death text, which has yet to be drawn up, will have to be followed. This means that partners may or may not be found to include that position in the text. That's what's going on today. The last adjustments were made rather late yesterday. I understand that it is not obvious for all parliaments to have already looked at what is on the table in detail. We need to see how we work best today with what is ahead. Can we get to work on that already? Can we start the discussion, or do we have to wait? One comment that was made in the Federal Parliament is that part of what was now included in the text amounts to literal repetitions of what was stated in the joint declaration of November 2017. As an interparliamentary climate conference, we must express our opinion on the desirability of literally reintegrating what we have already agreed into the text that is now before us. I would like to give the floor to the House so that we can consider how to deal with this procedure and what work we can do today, given a number of late submissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Flemish Parliament, I should like to apologize for the late transmission of our texts. We have tried for quite a long time to reach a consensus with all the groups represented in this House, but that has not yet been achieved. Of course, it could still come. The exercise we have done is indeed to draw up a new text as agreed here, with a view to COP24. We hope and wish that we will not repeat ourselves: what was agreed at interparliamentary talks and brought out has and maintains its value. However, let us focus here on the mandate we wish to give our delegation for COP24, without going into repetitions or discussions which relate solely to internal Belgian and Flemish climate policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u18	Mr President, I would like to strengthen Mr Bothuyne in his appeal. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we must bear in mind that in my opinion, I may be wrong; so correct me, if you are of any other opinion on this matter, but it is not the intention of the text to draw up a detailed Belgian national climate plan and energy plan immediately. In other words, I would like to take a step forward and tell you that it will not be very easy to talk about concrete reduction rates and an internal distribution of efforts within the Belgian context. I think it would be more useful for us to give our Belgian delegation a mandate as clearly as possible, in particular what position it should defend on behalf of Belgium and the Länder within the European delegation, which in turn will be able to bring this to the table. Having said that, I certainly do not want to put forward the text of the Flemish Parliament as superior. I would particularly like to call for the text to be kept as concise and as essential as possible. As with good books, one must kill his darlings. Deletion often makes the text better.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u19	Mr President, I would like to join the other Members briefly. We must, indeed, repeat as little as possible. The finality of the text is also different from the exercise we have already done and which was internal Belgian. Now we are indeed focusing on the higher level. In any case, we must try to present a text as concise and as forceful as possible. That'll get us the furthest. The text now before us has to be deleted from a few doubles. However, the volume of this text is not useful to come out with. For us too, the text must be as concise, clear and powerful as possible. Bert Wollants, President: Are there any other parliaments that wish to express their views on the subject, namely on the call not to take doubles?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u20	Mr President, we absolutely wanted to avoid repetition. We need a text that is - as Mr. Gryffroy last said - pleasant to read for COP 23. We have already worked on a series of articles that we find repetitive and that could be grouped together, but I will not give the details now. I would just like to point out to you that we have an article that has disappeared and that seemed important to us as we were talking about changing consumer behaviour and raising awareness of the ecological footprint. I therefore draw your attention to what we ourselves noted as Article 26, coming from the Wallonia Parliament, and which we do not find. Bert Wollants, President : We have our services look up the missing article anyway and find out where it went wrong. Of course, suggestions are welcome for a more streamlined text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u21	Mr President, I share the comments on the synthetic nature. I don't think the goal is to be as long as possible. Moreover, there is necessarily a lot of repetition because several texts that have been worked separately have been collated. So there are repetitions that are not always exactly the same. We need to reformulate and regroup. The message that is being given at European level and more globally to the international community is very important, since it is linked to the COP. This is, of course, where discussions can continue and evolve. In terms of form, since this is quite variable in the text, I think we should opt for a parliamentary resolution, since that is our objective for this year. It is therefore no longer necessary to speak of interparliamentary dialogue, but to have a text drafted as a parliamentary resolution and to be adopted in each of the parliaments. It is simply a question of rewriting and form. We need to agree on the format at the end of this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u22	Mr President, for reading the contributions of the various parliaments, I think there are still many points of convergence and it is not surprising in itself that there are repetitions in these various texts. Work can be done to simplify and prevent things from being repeated with words that are very similar, or even with formulas that are quite similar but distilled in different places in the text. A first observation is that the four assemblies that worked on the text go in the same direction on a series of important issues. It is rather good news but let us not turn around the pot: there are two or three stakes or "nodes" quite important from a political point of view in view of the situation on the planet today, a few years after the Paris agreement. I will sum them up with my words, but I think they are relatively well known. In the current state of commitments, as laid down in the dynamics prior to and after Paris, global warming cannot be limited to the Paris targets, i.e. 1.5°C, maximum 2°C because all commitments lead to the achievement of global warming of the order of 3.5°C. This is the starting point of the problem and it is the issue - or, in any case, one of the two main issues - of the Katowice meeting, hence of COP 24. Let us consider what should be done with this observation. We know that the IPCC will table its report in November and confirm the figures as they stand. Faced with this gap, a few European countries have already taken the initiative. They met in Paris about 10 days ago and committed themselves to working at European level to raise the targets. For now: 40% less CO2 by 2030. The Netherlands has costed and revived the momentum around 55% less in 2030, and 95% in 2050. This is clearly an issue for COP 24, a little more specific than it was at COP 23 and COP 22. In any event, we believe that this issue should be decided and should form part of the ongoing arbitration. We want to see whether Belgium is among the countries that want to enter into this dynamic of raising objectives, as soon as possible, that is, by the end of the year, or simply among those who accompany the movement and who see no upswing. This is one of the two issues. The other, of course, is the financial contribution. We know the famous 100 billion that must be collected and announced in full transparency since they will have to be confirmed annually from 2020. By way of introduction, if I may, these are two issues that we absolutely must talk about in the resolution, with possible differences of opinion. At the federal working group level, when we met in the House, Mr. Thiéry, Member of Parliament for the MR Group, asked us to be clear and precise on the points that we felt were important. It seemed interesting to me to share these points with all colleagues at all the assemblies. I believe that Belgium cannot miss out on such issues. Seeing countries like Sweden, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Finland, Germany, France, for example, meeting and staying on the balcony is obviously unacceptable for a country that says - at least in the European Parliament, through its Prime Minister's voice - that wants to be among those who are moving things to contain climate change and, somewhere, achieve the objectives that have been defined at COP 21. I won't be longer, but for me, it clearly requires acceptance of the points that are currently in square brackets and in black in the text tabled in the federal government and that have been given to us. It was not a surprise for my colleagues who participated in the work of the federal working group, but I preferred to be clear. I think that everyone can do so too, in turn, on these two issues that I consider essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u23	Mr President, I am not going to repeat the debate in the Federal Parliament. I will just very strongly support what Mr Nollet said, since both of these objectives are also those of the PS.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u24	Mr President, we have discussed this and tabled many amendments. We therefore support what Mr Nollet has just said. Mr Nollet reminded us that the countries around us and Sweden explicitly did not invite Belgium to participate in their meetings because they felt that our ambitions were not high enough. Certainly for the future, we must do something about this. This is an opportunity to do so. If we don't set the bar high enough, we'll stay at the bottom of the peloton.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u25	We do not agree with higher figures, such as 55%, for the following reason: Europe is the world's leader in reducing CO2 emissions by 1990 on the basis of the current figures. Other regions are even declining, and we have made a great deal of progress. That can be said. If we now impose 55% on ourselves, the rest of the world will undoubtedly welcome this and be satisfied that we can make the most of it and solve Europe's climate problem, while continuing as before with cheap fuel, for example, and we are competitively damaging our region of Europe. So we cannot impose 55% on ourselves. We come from 35%. We have made it 40%. That percentage wasn't just taken out of the sky. Research was needed to achieve this European average, which was not allocated to each country. There are countries that can do better, there are countries that can't do better technically and that may not even reach 40%. We must ensure that we do not step on our own toes or stick ourselves in the wheels by imposing such a high percentage that we harm ourselves in relation to the other regions. The other regions will thank Europe, but they will continue as before.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u26	Mr President, I think some have said so, but we must have ambitions. It is not because we are in Europe that we must be in the middle of the average. We must indeed have quantifiable ambitions. This will be done either by launching a number of actions or by developing technologies. It is necessary to stimulate and compel, because constraint also creates imagination. We cannot afford to lag behind in this case. The signals are clearly flashing: for the climate and the earth, it is time to act. We are stakeholders for a strong and meaningful resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u27	Mr President, I wanted to go in the same direction and point out that at the level of the Walloon Parliament we went in that direction. On the one hand, in the contribution that has been proposed, since you can read in Chapter C, in point 21/4, that for the 2030 targets, we propose to support, within the European Union, the more ambitious position that has been relayed in particular by the Netherlands; for both greenhouse gas emissions, renewables and energy efficiency. On the other hand, in our own resolutions, at the level of Wallonia, and even in an amendment that the government will shortly make in Wallonia's climate decree, we set a 95% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. I think that in the international discussion we need to stand up and help move the debate forward. In fact, I was somewhat surprised to hear Mr Gryffroy: in the text tabled by the Flemish Parliament, in introduction just before point A, you yourself say that if we do nothing, we will be far beyond the objectives of Paris, probably at a minimum of 3.5°, and that we therefore need further efforts. At one point, there is a need to reconcile findings, urgency, commitments and at the very least to have a clear international discourse.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u28	I know very well what we have written in our text proposal, because I wrote to it myself. I've improved it, too. It clearly states that we must indeed have the ambition to go above 40% in Europe, but I do not put a number on it. That's the difference. If one sticks a number on it, one undermines one's own negotiating position in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u29	I am, of course, less involved in the psychology of the whole world than my colleague Gryffroy. So it is difficult for me to predict what will happen and what will happen to everyone. I would like to give a brief account of the debate we have had on this subject in the Flemish Parliament. You will also notice that the minority amendment I tabled together with Mr Danen, at least in the text of the Flemish Parliament. There are two good reasons, with which I would like to convince the House, to include a clear figure and a clear ambition in the text. Firstly, the text of the Flemish Parliament contains a clear ambition without a clear figure. That's a little sensual. That's knocking on the chest and in the meantime the fingers cross behind the back. In another language that is called cheating. So that's a pointless explanation. I do not think we should call together four parliaments to make senseless statements. Everyone loses their time with that. Secondly, if all these parliaments have set up such a committee, it is because we assume that all the people elected by the various parliaments take that problem seriously and expect a clear signal. This means at least that we must not lag behind the neighbouring countries, which operate under the same economic conditions and in the same economy as we do. It is therefore better to join in this than to distance ourselves from it. Finally, I would like to say the following, Mr Gryffroy and other colleagues. If you say that taking a lead in reducing CO2 emissions is detrimental, I do not agree with that. I can give you empirical figures for that, by the way. Europe has long been at the forefront of this effort. It hasn't cost us anything yet. On the contrary, if I have to believe the figures of the various government parties, it will still create tens of thousands of jobs, not to say hundreds of thousands of jobs, for the rest of the world. Sometimes the numbers get blown up a bit, but at least it's a lot of jobs. I would therefore urge that the bar be set as high as possible in this area as well, rather than being afraid of its own shadow and fearing that we could do something good.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group is not convinced that moving towards a low carbon and circular economy would be bad for our economy. We are convinced of the opposite. So, yes, colleagues, ambition must certainly be shown. However, we are a little small to say that we will already become CO2 neutral by 2030 and that the job will then be done. That's not how our global economy works. Mr Gryffroy, I thought Europe was responsible for 9% of CO2 emissions. Even if we do all the work and the rest of the world says that Europe must do its best, the problem has not yet been solved. Even putting on paper the ultimate ambition of a completely carbon-free and emission-free economy by 2050 will not solve the global climate problem. Colleagues, therefore, it makes no sense to stare blindly at a certain percentage and ambition. Mr Tobback, let us be honest, it is not because we write in the text that we must go to a reduction of 55%, that it will happen. Surely you are calling for no text that we know is of no use to us? I think that's a waste of time. I would like to come up with a text on which there is as broad a consensus as possible. And we must systematically push that consensus into an emission-free society. Ladies and gentlemen, if you take up the texts on the part in question, you will see that there is already some but no full consensus. Article 11, which has just been referred to, which comes from the Federal Parliament and is in brackets, does not differ so much from Article 15/3, which was tabled by the Flemish Parliament, and other articles. We write everywhere that we need to show greater ambition in Europe and that we need to increase our objectives. We all agree on that. The text of the Federal Parliament suggests that the Talanoa dialogue should be used to achieve this. That's not a bad thing. The sp.a Group is concerned that we, as climate pariahs in Europe, are in danger of losing our right to speak. Well, I think it is interesting to ask our ministers to engage in this dialogue and to see if that is a good tool for strengthening European objectives. I am aware that you do not all agree with this, but it is my plea that a lack of concrete figures is not a sign of a lack of ambition, and I am referring to the increase on top of the reduction targets we already have. On the contrary, it is a concern to move the whole of society towards a climate-neutral economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u31	I spoke to you earlier about articles to be combined. I quote: Articles 4, 11, 12, 12/1, 20, 20/1 and 21/4 address this crucial issue. I read through the notes that we are aware, in the Wallonia Parliament, of the IPCC's appeal. We went further and said that we supported this call. There are important nuances in the choice of words. I wanted to remind you that we are small, that we are only Europe, but we have an outstanding responsibility for the current disasters. I also wanted to recall the image of Al Gore in 2006, a long time ago, when he presented the scale with the dollars on one side and on the other, the planet: we think of dollars and we will no longer have a planet. It may be simplistic, but it's a reality. It is absolutely necessary to go to COP24 this time and that is part of the stakes of COP24. Again, we will have a stimulus effect for an obligation to change because we are too slow in adapting to the transition. Putting numbers can force everyone (politics, industry and consumers) to move.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u32	Mr President, we are not going to repeat the debate we have had at the federal level even though there are still a number of questions. In my opinion, these are the ones that need to be discussed. In the context of the working method, it would be interesting to refer to the common texts and to see step by step the points that are problematic. Once it is not customary, I would like to point out, in relation to Mr Schiltz's remarks, that for once we are on the same wavelength. I note – this is part of the entire debate we have had at the federal level – that COP24 should logically be the goal or at least the implementation of the decisions that were taken in 2015 in Paris. I also note that despite the figures accepted by everyone at COP21 that we are not yet able to progress fast enough. I am therefore extremely dubious. I also ask for a reflection on this because it is important to be ambitious, as much as it is important to be rational. We could push the figures upwards in the order of 5 or 10% to give ourselves a will to go further. But I also know that giving one another an important ambition in politics is good, but if you can't do it, it's the best way to get blamed for not getting there. I am well aware of the negative consequences that this can have. Then, when we talk about 55% – and I asked, "Why not 50 or 60?" –, I come back to the notion of rationality. For each of the decisions, as was the case in 2014, an impact assessment was conducted and we reached consensus. Now, we'd like to get on the 55% track. However, no studies have been carried out and therefore could not prove the rationality of this rate. I draw your attention to this fact. I know we're going to discuss it again because at the federal level, it was the stumbling block. In any case, if we are working in an unethical manner on the drafting of this resolution, we are making a mistake. So I ask you to pay attention to it. That's why I'm joining Messrs. Schiltz and Gryffroy: we must be ambitious, but there is no absolute need to change rates that we have not yet reached. Let's focus on the 2014 agreement and try to reach that threshold!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u33	Mr President, if we listen to Mr Thiéry – "Let's focus on the commitments made in 2014 and try to honour them" – we are satisfied with a global warming of 3.5 degrees. We can't do that. That would be criminal! Today, we need to make clear commitments that put us back on the track of the Paris Agreement: 1.5°, 2° maximum. Now, if you're just applying the 2014 agreement, I'm sorry, but that means we're keeping up to 3.5 degrees, if not more. Secondly, the question is simple: what position will Belgium take during COP24 at European coordination meetings? When the Netherlands talks about a rate of 55%, our country will simply say, "We want to be ambitious." It doesn't mean anything. Will we give the mandate to our negotiators to join the proposal already submitted by the Netherlands? Or will Belgium abstain? At this stage, Belgium is against. We, as parliamentarians, have a duty to act so that the mandate is changed and that Belgium approves what is on the table. Mr. Thiéry, I am curious about receiving your 2014 impact assessment. It seems to me that an exchange here on this subject would be worthwhile. But most of all I expect you to ask the Netherlands, Germany, France, Finland and Luxembourg why they took this position when they do not have an impact assessment. It's irresponsible of them. If we follow your reasoning, these countries would be next to the plaque. No, I don't! They are simply looking for a way back on the path that was defined by the Paris agreement. We do not ask that Belgium decide to set itself the target of 55%, but that in the European concert it agree with those who, within the European Union, call for 55%. We therefore ask that it join this dynamic, that it write to the seven countries concerned to let them know that it is joining them, that it is entering this dynamic while until then it is outside. And if this dynamic should ultimately lead to the fact that it is not the 55 % envisaged in the Netherlands proposal that is retained, but the 60 % you are referring to because an impact assessment is necessary, why not? But let us be part of this dynamic because it will be decisive in the framework of European coordination! You know how important European coordination is in setting the positions of the European Union. What position will Belgium stand in this context if our mandate is simply to say that we must be ambitious? That doesn't make any sense. We must return to the position of other countries. Here I am thinking in particular of 55% in 2030 and 95% in 2050.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u34	There are four parliaments together here, and I note that three of them put the 55% figure forward in the text. Green and sp.a have tabled a minority amendment to this effect in the Flemish Parliament. I therefore find it incomprehensible that people here are afraid to talk about figures in a text, although the basis for this is quite broad in the various parliaments. I therefore call on the Brussels Parliament to refer to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u35	Mr President, I really insist that the figure should appear in the text as defined by three parliaments, because it is still a strong option that we must defend and it is a strong option that we must give our negotiators at COP 24. It's really a bearer. Mr Thiéry, I think that the exercise may be difficult for you, but your colleagues in the Walloon Parliament have given these figures. They're colleagues from your party. I'm beginning to have a difficulty understanding the positioning, but maybe you're going to explain it to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u36	As a first step, Mr de Lamotte, I, in any case, remain consistent. I know what I said at the federal meeting. What you just said here, on the other hand, is absolutely not what you said at the last meeting! So I'm a little surprised by what you said. I can assure you, I heard you very well. At that time, you even said, "Me, I'm proposing a compromise." These are exactly your words. That being said, we are focusing on the problem of the 55% that was put forward by the Netherlands, and that is correct. Perhaps I would also like to recall the context in which this was done. This is a statement that was made during the election campaign. It is an ambition that has been given to the Dutch people to say "we must be forerunners and pioneers and we must move forward". I confirm that there was no special impact assessment that had been carried out at the international level. What I am saying here, and some people should be well placed to know it, is that without impact assessment, we are moving forward on objectives and sometimes we realize that we can come to a situation where we run into financial bubbles that we are obliged to pass on to the citizens. I therefore think that we must be extremely careful because, in addition to what I am hearing on the part of the Netherlands, you have mentioned, Mr Nollet, other countries that are involved in this 55 % approach. However, in a press release that was issued on 25 April 2018, I can see clearly the statement of each of the ministers responsible for climate in these different countries. In this statement, there is only one minister who takes a stand for the 55%, that is the Netherlands, not the others. Why? Simply because this impact assessment with a more in-depth risk assessment, if any, was not done. That is why the other ministers did not follow that of the Netherlands. Let us pay careful attention to the use of a number of arguments that could ultimately turn against us. Everyone obviously has an appreciation of this. I repeat, contrary to what was said by Mr Nollet – and I can see his more media approach by saying that there are on the one hand climatosceptics and on the other those who want at all costs... but we are no longer in a communication fight in the media. We need to move forward on rational data. That's what I'm trying to convey as a message. Indeed we have two different visions. I simply regret, Mr Nollet, that you are taking this opportunity to say that ultimately on the side of the MR, or, let us be clear, on the side of the federal majority, we have no ambition. That is not what I said at all! I said we had a lot of ambition but we wanted a rational ambition. I found - and I did not say it was right - that we had failed to achieve or implement what we had decided in Paris. I didn't say we didn't want to go any further, quite the contrary. But those who would now dare to issue precise figures knowing in advance that we will not be able to reach them in order to be able to blame us for it afterwards, sincerely, this is a game that I do not want to play.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debates on these percentages are now almost on a regular basis. We know in advance which parties will be very critical, which parties will be enthusiastic but thoughtful and which parties will be more voluntarist. Of course, that's not new. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must not lose sight of the fact that 2030 is the day after tomorrow. We have not yet reached a reduction of 40%. Even implementing what we have already promised will therefore require a little bit more work from our ministers. In our respective parliaments, therefore, we must rush our ministers to at least take some extra steps to achieve what we have already promised. If you are afraid that the current text would show no ambition and no concrete objectives, I do not know what a reduction target of 80% to 90% of greenhouse gases will mean by 2050. That is, after all, the finality for me. That's the lighthouse we need to focus on. An almost total zero-emission company in 2050, that's the beacon. The majority parties in the Flemish Parliament also agreed to call on ministers to set the necessary intermediate objectives. Mr Tobback, you will remember how strong the debate was about our climate resolution on intermediate objectives. We didn't really want to know about it at the time. We want to know about it now, but we are still a little wary of putting figures on it. Ladies and gentlemen, if we again combine the call to join the Talanoa dialogue with rather strong targets by 2050, as well as the recognition that additional intermediate objectives between 40% and 95% will have to be achieved, then we are already very close. In that case, I don't quite understand the 55 percent fetish. Frankly, that 55% is recorded here and there. However, I have not yet found or read any substantiated arguments showing why the target should be 55% per se. Maybe that's right. I don't want to rule it out and if it turns out to be right, full force ahead. For the moment, however, I do not see this as a requirement in the current situation. Today we do not think we will reach unanimity. I just hope that you will see with me that the positions are getting closer and closer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u38	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u39	Yes, you do, Mrs. Maes. I have just admitted or indicated the way in which the majority in the Flemish Parliament is prepared to achieve strict and high objectives. I have also indicated the need for intermediate objectives and for us to join the Talanoa dialogue. That seems to me to be steps in the right direction. Of course, this will not go entirely according to your scenario, nor will it go entirely according to mine. So, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how we should proceed from here. Unfortunately, however, on behalf of my group, I cannot go into 55% as a hard target. Maybe other formulations are possible, which define pathways in that direction. I'd like to take a look at those trajectories. With the text of the Flemish Parliament, we have already taken an important step. I have the following small comment. The text of the Brussels Parliament states that the IPCC calls for a 55% reduction in greenhouse gases. I didn't find it. Maybe I misread the report. Once again, I am somewhat afraid that the 55% figure is rather an arbitrary choice, but not a choice that already has a lot of consensus in Europe. Perhaps a new dialogue could bring about a need for 55% by 2030. I'd like to take a look at all of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u40	Mr President, I think Mrs Maes should be careful when she comes to say that everyone actually agrees. Mrs. Maes, I'm just looking at what was filed at federal level. Your proposal is in brackets, at the request of Ecolo-Green. In the Brussels Parliament, the proposal is in brackets, on a proposal from Ecolo-Green. Moreover, in point 20/1 where your paragraph was included, it is only about the finding that "the IPCC calls." I did not see this 55% in the text of Wallonia, nor did I see it in the text of Flanders. In other words, saying that there is a consensus here, or almost a consensus, between three of the four parliaments, that is not true. Moreover, I would also like to refer to what the Walloon Parliament has written, coincidentally in red. If you read the last bullet on the first page, 'take note of the European Commission's roadmap to come to...', and compare that with our argument in point 15/3, you will see that those two texts are actually almost the same. In other words, the Flemish Parliament and the Walloon Parliament already have almost the same text, from which there is a great ambition. I would particularly like to add my voice to what Mr Schiltz and Mr Thiéry have said: that 55% is suddenly falling out of the sky. I wonder why it's 55%? That's unsubstantiated. Even in the Netherlands, that is not substantiated. Mr Tobback, when I have contacts with the Dutch administration on foreign trips, they themselves say that they do not know where that comes from. I know Germany's calculations; there have been some serious miscalculations. This is just a hype from the bottom up, from a certain group in the population that suddenly talks about 55%. That sounds good tomorrow in the newspapers, 55% everywhere. But that needs to be substantiated. I am an ecorealist: I want facts and figures, evidence based.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u41	Mr President, I will reply to Mr Gryffroy. If you have not found the Walloon Parliament's point, this is at point 21.4. We refer specifically to the IPCC scenario. It's a way to answer Mr. Thiéry too. These are the IPCC scenarios that led to these figures. They're not coming out of nowhere. We can always discuss all kinds of parameters. But it is inconsistent not to adopt more ambitious figures while saying that we are going to respect the Paris agreement. It's just impossible. In international negotiations, a number of countries must be able to tilt the balance so that everyone can raise ambitions. To bend the balance, you have to give figures. Our 55 proposal comes from the IPCC scenario. Different countries rely on it. You refer to the first page of the Walloon text. The first page is a recital. It describes the current situation of what has been decided by Europe. This is what we propose to evolve to achieve the Paris objectives. Otherwise, we are talking about something that is impossible, that is, achieving the Paris objective – what everyone wants – without raising national ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u42	Mr President, I also wanted to point out that these figures come from the IPCC. We can still see this as a group of independent scientists we trust. It has been designated as it is. I am referring here to terms quite unheard of in relation to those 55% that would be thrown on the table like that. I still think we are dealing with eminent specialists. I want to drive slower on the highway, say it'll be slower. I'd like to consume less. But if there are no figures behind this, we will not be able to score strong ambitions. They say there is no impact assessment. Indeed, they must come next. What is the risk in relation to these figures? I'm sorry, but the impacts are already there. The current climate disasters are already proof that we are far behind. Many countries, many populations are already heavily affected. It is time for us to move on once again with the responsibility we have for this global warming.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u43	Mr President, the question of 55% seems crucial to me. It was said earlier that it seemed to be a matter of parties. I am a member of the same party as Mr Thiéry, but if I read the sentence in parentheses for the House – which I understand very well – in the Walloon Parliament, we are also not asking for the European Union to raise its 2030 target from 40% of CO2 emissions to 55% compared to 1990. Here, we must play on words and understand nuances: we support the IPCC's call. It is very important to see this difference in the wording and I invite the House delegation to see whether this formulation of the Walloon Parliament could not represent a compromise for each parliamentary delegation. It has been said several times that there are four Parliaments present here today, but I would remind you that there is one fifth of them: that of the German-speaking Community, which is under observatory status. I would like to greet the President of the German-speaking Community, Alexander Miesen, who is also present. Finally, I will make a final comment on the content of today's proposal because there is not just the question of 55%. If I have read the text correctly, I do not find enough the communal level, the role of local authorities. It is also a very important element and I wonder if it should not be added to the articles. For example, for the issue of wind turbines or to influence the behaviour of the population, local authorities remain the main player.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u44	Mr President, by listening carefully to each other, I will venture in a comparison with the marathon. The one who makes his first marathon sets a goal – finish his marathon – and it takes a while. It takes four hours to finish his marathon. When he is at his tenth marathon, he always has so much physical preparation to succeed but he can increase his ambitions and his time goals! He could try to reach 3:45. And in order to achieve this goal, the goal increases its objectives. Everyone says we need a clear, direct, simple text... I do not recall all the adjectives that were cited but what is simpler than starting from a purpose that was that of Paris, namely an increase in temperatures of maximum 1.5°C? To achieve this goal, we need to raise our targets: 40 to 55%. What's better than a resolution when you have two or three major axes? These major axes are, on the one hand, an increase in our ambitions by raising our objectives and, on the other hand, the financial contributions which will be absolutely indispensable and priority. I think that we need to focus so that we can be heard in the European concert on these two essential elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u45	Mr President, I come back to the question put to us by the Walloon Member of Parliament as to whether, at the federal level, we could work on the compromise which is the text of the Walloon Parliament. As far as I'm concerned, I say yes. I am also saying this to Mr Schiltz because both have raised the idea of a compromise on which we obviously have to work at some point. It seems to me that there is a way, by the time of the next meeting, of considering a compromise on these elements, but I would still like to add two elements in other parts of the text. I'll explain. On the one hand, there is this dynamic which has been created at European level. It's not neutral. It's not nothing. And it hurts me not to see Belgium there. Knowing you, Mr. Schiltz, I'm sure to you too. There was a time when a Liberal prime minister, Dutch-speaking at the time, was among the first to be included in this kind of dynamics, or even pulled them. I regret that Belgium was not present on 25 November in Paris, but I think it is not too late, if we state in our statement that Parliaments are asking the government to join this dynamic. In addition to what the Walloon Parliament has already written in relation to the passage you were quoting earlier and which I think is good, there is a second point which I think is important. I am referring to Mr Thiéry's statement, which objected to the fact that, in the text as agreed on 25 April in Paris, only the Netherlands committed itself to that figure of 55%. I assume that he has read the whole text and therefore has no problem with the rest, especially everything that concerns...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u47	I suppose, however, that you "seen" the rest. Because you saw Sweden's commitment in relation to 2045, you saw France's commitment in relation to 2050, you saw the Netherlands' commitment, etc. There are other commitments, particularly in terms of carbon neutrality, which are useful and also necessary. If these elements - like this, I sum up my speech - can be included in the final text, compromise is possible. I quote them: 1. Walloon base; 2. the fact of joining the dynamic initiated; 3. elements of carbon neutrality in relation to the deadlines that are cited by different countries and not only by the Netherlands. I think that we have a base on the marathon section of 03:45 mentioned by our colleague, i.e. 1.5°C, or even a maximum of 2°C in this case. That, I believe, is our goal as a marathon for all of us here. So I think that, for the next meeting, a compromise is possible. But if we remain in the wave but are not more precise in the objectives we set ourselves, I think it is in no interest to have a mandate that is too vague as the discussions are going to be very close in Katowice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should indeed try to work towards a compromise, knowing that climate policy is not only about formulating and communicating objectives, but also about achieving them. In this case, it concerns the European level, in consultation with 27 Member States. It seems clear to me that the INDC from Europe is insufficient and that recognition in our text is a first important statement. We must also recognise that the 40% target must be exceeded. We need more than the reduction originally laid down. For this reason, I think it would be a good idea, for example, to put forward in the compromise text the Talanoa dialogue as a working tool for our country, as well as setting intermediate targets for a reduction of 80% to 95%. Both elements seem important to me in order to reach a compromise on a unified text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u49	Mr Nollet, thank you for calling on my conscience. My supreme political objective is not only to register solid climate laws and strict objectives. If we want to move towards a carbon-free economy by 2050, and preferably a circular economy, then I also want to get rid of nuclear energy. But, Mr Nollet, you have to explain to me how we have 50% of our energy production... We will do that, there is finally an Energy Pact. It took a while before everyone was on board, but it worked. We will therefore need temporary capacity. We all know that it will not be CO2 neutral. At the moment, I am also trying from our party to send Belgium to renewable energy production away from nuclear energy in other parliaments, but at the same time I want to meet the climate objectives. We have not yet reached the target of 40%. I agree that we still need intermediate objectives to achieve more, but if you ask me today to open my heart and just accept that 55%, after which you will be eternally grateful to us, then I answer: no, that is not possible. The challenges of the transition in which we are now placing our country are enormous and I am not prepared to let go of one of the two objectives, which is the core step and the achievement of the climate objectives. As it happens, the countries to which you refer, France and Sweden, are countries that still maintain enormous nuclear capacity and do not intend to close it by 2030. Dus, bear with me. When we have to make the double change, it may be that we will have a temporary difficulty with our emissions. This does not mean that we will not make any additional efforts, but that we will not be able to make huge progress on net emissions. Once again, I would like to leave it open and open us to intermediate objectives, which bring substantial improvements. I do not know how much capacity we will need, how quickly the various renovation plans in the regions will start to reduce emissions from our housing park, how quickly our mobility plans will bear fruit, how quickly we will be able to get trucks off the road and how quickly we will be able to absorb more freight and reduce emissions by rail. I do not know any of this, and that makes it very difficult for me to look at the climate alone. The nuclear trip is even more important to me in the short term if possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u50	Mr President, the element with which we left is the joint declaration last time. It clearly states in the last sentence of Article 7 that we are aware, however, that the IPCC even calls for a 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, the use of 45% renewable energy and 40% energy efficiency by 2030. What Mr Bothuyne and Mr Schiltz have said is perfectly possible. Article 20/1 of the Brussels Parliament can be incorporated into the compromise text, which states: we are aware of it, we are entering the dialogue, we will try to go above 40%, we will do everything we can. But fixing us to a number that hasn't been proven, sorry, that's not for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u51	Mr President, this exchange is certainly interesting. If we take a step backwards in reading the document and we are drawing up a synthesis of it, it seems to me that the stated ambition must be intimately linked to the efforts to be made in investment in terms of energy transition, in the questions of taxation, regulation or regulation of a certain type of free trade and, finally, in the conception of spatial planning. Some of these concerns can be found. Let's take a billion federal dollars in SNCB investments: what does that mean? This is nothing in terms of the budgets needed for mobility. Therefore, let us pay close attention to the credibility of our objectives, given the investments we are prepared to make. There is also talk of strengthening the habitat cores. What does that mean? This means that it will take compact cities, instead of opening up the territory as it has been practiced in our country for a very long time. In terms of taxation, we must act in a dissuasive way, having the courage – but also the unpopularity – to defend this fiscal policy. In short, a more ambitious objective is obviously commendable and defensible, but provided that the chapters to be devoted to the efforts to be made are further developed. Otherwise, we risk simply considering that we wanted to be popular by setting ourselves ambitions that could save the planet, but without having conceded that this should be accompanied by enormous investment, fiscal priorities and taxation efforts. I would like to hear the speech inviting us to align ourselves with the Netherlands, but I have recently, by chance, examined Dutch investments to ensure the energy transition. They're superior to ours. Secondly, in the Netherlands, I saw spatial planning plans that were more concerned with reducing the burden of mobility and encouraging intermodality through public transport. Therefore, to be credible in the objectives, we must be as credible in the investments we are prepared to make. That's my feeling after a synthetic reading of the document.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u52	I was lucky enough to go to Bonn for COP23. In fact, countries are coming with their ambitions. Behind this, we have to manage. I am not sure that the COP24 text should go that far. Of course, it is entirely legitimate to question and not want to write anything by saying that we will not do it. In any case, there may be two parts. And I don't know how far to go at this point. In any case, I do not know whether to set ourselves the famous ambitions that we have just talked about with a formulation that could agree with the major points that have been raised concerning the reduction of impacts and international financing is very important. Bert Wollants, President : Colleagues, when it comes specifically to 55%, that is a debate that has been held for hours in different committees. We haven't gotten out of there, and I don't think we're ready to make a breakthrough here. There will have to be a wording that everyone agrees with. I hear from all the groups that effective steps need to be taken to achieve this reduction in emissions. Opinions differ mainly as to whether or not to include the target of 55% in the text. I'm afraid we're gonna have to find an intermediate solution. At the same time, I heard from many colleagues that a good text is more important than a long text. We try to repeat as little as possible, because that is not seen as an added value. So we can try to get some of those double cases out. Then the text gets a lot lighter. For the challenge of square brackets in the federal text and the 55% in a number of other texts, there will be more work to be done to reach a political consensus. There are also square hooks in a number of other places at the same time. We haven't talked about that today. Those are major discussions that we still have to consider. I suggest you undouble the text. We need to see what's out there. I will try to propose a compromise in a number of areas on the basis of what is in the texts. The various parliaments can then look at this text against the next Interparliamentary Climate Dialogue. If we go over this text point by point, I fear that it will not be the COP23, COP24 or COP25 but rather the COP50 before we have a text. That can't be the intention. I propose that in the next few days we work on a shorter version that takes the views of the various parliaments as well as possible. There are, of course, still important discussions. That 55% is one of the elements for which great steps are still needed to get everyone on the same line. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u53	Mr President, thank you for your proposal. We have seen a very interesting discussion today, but it is clear that the text is not finalized. Nevertheless, it seems to me that it is important to set an objective at the timing level. If the ambition is to have a real resolution adopted by the various parliaments, the deadline could be July, otherwise we would be out of time in relation to the COP. The work of this assembly must be completed by mid-June or by the end of June at the latest. We will be able to meet at a future meeting, but we have only a short time left. To go further in your proposal, we could receive a new text reduced and reorganized rather quickly. Should we not then consider that the various delegations could reformulate amendments that are collectived before our next meeting, or would we risk resuming the same discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u54	Mr President, you are trying to take a nice step. However, you must bear in mind that the next meeting will take place in two weeks' time. She was scheduled for May 29, 2018. I'd keep that date, too. I do not think it will be possible to table amendments by then. I would therefore be in favour of what Mr Bert Wollants is asking for, namely to reduce the text. That is what we agreed last time, namely that we would not come out with a Bible, but would go for a more compact text. Secondly, you can indicate where the discrepancies between the different parliaments lie, by placing them between brackets. We can then discuss the brackets next time and then table and discuss his amendments at the end of June 2018 against the meeting after 29 May 2018. That might be a better logic. The next sitting will be in two weeks' time, because the present sitting will be postponed two weeks ago. Bert Wollants, chairman: Colleagues, can we work in this way? We will then try to get the shortened text to you as soon as possible and make a number of proposals on it. We will discuss the matter further afterwards. Whether we are planning an additional round of consultations between the next meeting and the next meeting, we need to take a look. However, the timing for getting around is very tight anyway. Mr. Henry, there's something you'd like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u55	I understand the problem. I can hear what is being proposed. Two meetings are scheduled. You say there might be another one, but you'll have to see if the agendas allow it. In any case, at the moment the second is the last possible deadline. Would it not then be desirable for a meeting to take place longer than today and for the various parliaments to agree on the timing and not to be limited to two hours over lunch? If we still have to make amendments on the last day, we must be sure that we can succeed on that day. Bert Wollants, President : I think this is certainly possible, but I have to look at the other parliaments, because we arrived at an afternoon meeting because there were many conflicts with other meetings. In itself, it seems possible to allow this meeting to continue until the afternoon, but it is necessary to consider whether the various parliaments can be present. If they themselves have a committee meeting on Tuesday afternoon dealing with the environment or energy, this could cause problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-15-54-commissie-ic893x.u56	Mr President, once you have reduced or distilled the text, I believe that it will immediately become clear which points of discussion remain. We have already discussed one today. I am counting on your wisdom, and the impact of our discussions, to make a first move in that reduction text. If the three or four elements on which we have to debate are identified, and we do not first discuss the work and the sandwiches for another half hour or 45 minutes, then I believe that an afternoon meeting is long enough. If we are going to push it, I fear that the agenda will move forward, so that the possibility of holding an additional sitting will immediately be overturned. I have good hopes that we will be able to proceed soon tomorrow, and that the outlines of additional compromises will or will not emerge, so that they may be translated into a text in plenary session or later. Bert Wollants, President: Do I understand from this that we are trying to limit our next sitting to two hours, but that we are trying to move forward before that sitting so that we can get to the point? Is that a proposal that everyone can support? I don't see any objections. Thus shall be done. We are trying to provide you with a text as soon as possible which can reflect the concerns expressed here. In any case, I welcome you to our Parliament on 29 May. In the meantime, we are trying to provide you digitally with a number of documents. Thank you for your presence and contribution. I hope that we can continue to work constructively on this.
