ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u2	Mr President, I understand that a number of Members are still looking in extremes for a number of formal arguments to avoid this substantive debate. I would suggest that we start this debate in full. Furthermore, I would like to focus on the question of approving this order of affairs rather than advancing the Prime Minister. I have asked both questions, but in the course of the day, even when the Prime Minister's answer is being heard, I have become aware that we may not need to call on him to dissect this issue. The Prime Minister lacks courage and leadership to steer his majority in a certain direction. Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of the Prime Minister, this Parliament must express itself quite symbolically. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament is not asking for a resolution in extremes every week. We are doing this because by now this majority has been hopelessly divided on an important issue for almost a month. Other issues, such as the energy issue, the tax issue and the budgetary issue, also show that this government is dragging itself to the end. She stumbles so much that one wonders whether Mr Beke will immediately be a candidate prime minister or whether he will have to wait a few months. The colleagues of CD&V are already anticipating a possible fall of the government with their listing. You may already be working on it, ladies and gentlemen, but we are not. Our focus is on approving the UN migration pact. In the meantime, Mr De Roover may have found the translation of the UN migration pact on the Doorbraak website. Apparently De Roover doesn't read everything that appears on Doorbraak, because he didn't know there was a translation of the pact. This might explain why the N-VA has spread a lot of disinformation around the migration pact in recent weeks. It was quite embarrassing to hear De Roover ask the Prime Minister whether the plan is binding or non-binding and what other governments would do. The N-VA is looking for excuses not to approve the UN migration pact. Colleagues, if the N-VA, a relatively young party, had existed in 1948, would our country have signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights? I'm afraid so. After all, I note that today the N-VA is looking for excuses not to say yes. Mr. Clarinval, what happens then? Colleagues, Mr Van Quickenborne, what the Prime Minister warned in September 2018 in the same United Nations gallery is actually happening. Mr Clarinval, the Prime Minister then asked to avoid extremists and populists using migration policy to win elections. That's what Charles Michel said in the United Nations gallery. Colleagues, that's what the N-VA is doing today. Like smuggling migrants and people on the run abuse money to cash, the N-VA misuses the migration debate to score electoral. Mr Verherstraeten, you were wondering what actually changed. You asked that question. You have asked what has actually changed since the previous statements, namely since the Prime Minister's declarations approved by the government and since Theo Francken's statements in the parliamentary committee. Mr Verherstraeten, the answer is obvious. It is these three members of the Flemish Interest who are getting back on track. Colleagues, unfortunately for all democrats, unfortunately for Flanders and unfortunately for Belgium, the Flemish Interest is one of the winners next to Green from the municipal and provincial elections. Ladies and gentlemen, that has changed: the N-VA is blocking today because it is being hunted by and nervous of the far right. Once upon a time, it was Mr. De Wever's mission to make the far right small. Once he wanted to destroy their ideas and make nationalism democratic. Mr De Wever, today you are following Mr Dewinter and making the present government a slave of the far right. You let Mr Dewinter decide what our country, what Flanders, what Belgium and what Europe tells on the international stage. [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening to Mr Calvo, who is finishing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u4	Mr President, I hope that Mr De Wever's rare presence will have an impact on the N-VA Group. Mr De Wever, that is what a party chairman of a majority party normally does: to ensure that the government functions. So use your presence to make this majority function.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u5	Mr Calvo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u6	Colleagues, on one point I agreed with Mr De Roover: we are in the house of democracy. This is the moment. If the government does not succeed in deciding, then it is up to Parliament to make a decision. Mr Dewael, you said that the knot should be cut at the appropriate time. Now, ladies and gentlemen, this is the right time. If our country in Europe has to sit at the table to interrupt that discussion, then our government must have a position.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u7	Mr Calvo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u8	Mr Dewael, if our country in Europe has to pull the cart, as you have advocated, and if our country in Europe has to confess colour, then we need to know which colour. That colour is either democratic and humane, the colour of human rights, or the brown, the grey, the closed of far right and populism. Ladies and gentlemen, it rarely happens in our parliamentary function, but I would like to invite you not to vote by majority and opposition. Liberal and Christian Democrat colleagues, I call on you to vote on the basis of your conviction, with a Belgian tradition, with a heart for human rights...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u9	Mr Calvo, I have to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u10	With your vote, you can undermine the minority of extreme right-wing and populists in Parliament. It is time to vote, now is the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u11	Thank you, Mr Calvo. Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure provide for a five-minute speaking time for each group to discuss this motion. Colleagues, according to the Rules of Procedure, each group is entitled to five minutes of speaking time on this motion. Are any groups asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u12	Mr President, can I know exactly what this round is about: is it about procedure or the substance of the matter? I believe that Mr Calvo wants his motion for a resolution to be dealt with immediately in plenary. We have already discussed the substance of the matter during Question Time. I have tabled an order motion in which I ask that the whole matter be referred to the Committee on External Relations as a matter of urgency. I'd say that's all right. I think that the Chamber should first give its opinion on this approach. Either it is dealt with immediately in plenum, or it is referred to the committee, but letting everyone walk on the ground again, is non bis in idem. We shall then have a repeat of Question Time, and let that be the point I warned about in the Conference of Presidents. I understand that Mr Calvo does not want to miss his appointment with history, but I would ask the Chamber to speak first. Does it agree with my proposal to refer the motion for a resolution to the Committee on External Relations or will it immediately discuss the substance of the matter? The latter seems to me to be problematic, because we do not even have a text. I am in favour of any kind of virtual reality, but I have not often seen the Chamber debate something the text of which has not even been distributed. I want to be accommodating, but I urge you to let us decide first whether we are going to proceed with this or whether we are sending it to committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u13	I understand the question. Mr Dewael's proposal is to vote immediately. I must, however, put the two motions to the vote, in other words Mr Calvo and Mr Gilkinet's motion and then Mr Dewael's order motion immediately. Does the House agree that we should vote on this right away?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u14	Mr President, I would like to reassure Mr Dewael. The text has been available for some time. In the last few days, he was worried about his own group signing it. The text also has a number. So he's real. I would be happy to consider how quickly and orderly we can organise the discussion, but Mr Dewael's motion is actually referring the debate to the long term, without any commitment to discuss the text briefly and vigorously in committee. Our group cannot live with that. There is no time limit and there is no clear commitment from the majority. I therefore maintain my request to discuss the text here and now. Mr Dewael's motion is far too flou and mainly serves to buy time and cover the incredible division in his majority. I would expect Liberals to show more courage and conviction, especially at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u15	The chairman of the External Relations Committee shall ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u16	Mr President, if you and the House agree, I would like to propose that the Committee on External Relations be convened immediately to agree on an agenda, as well as a timing within which we can deal with that motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u17	I understand that the House agrees that we should proceed to the vote. We speak out at the sitting and getting up. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u18	We shall do so after consideration. I wanted Mr Calvo to ensure that the work was carried out in a reasonably orderly manner. I said myself that I am aware that we are talking about the text of a resolution that has not yet been considered. I know that, but I wanted to get the work moving. I think it is a good idea to vote on Mr Calvo's motion, which calls for an immediate debate. I therefore propose that we express our opinion on that order motion. I therefore propose that we take a decision on this point of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u19	Mr President, I suggest that the Prime Minister spares his strength for the committee at the beginning of next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u20	Oké, dan is dat punt afgehandeld. Mr Van der Maelen asked to speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u21	Mr President, is it not possible to continue on the road you have just taken? You said that resolutions are always considered. Would it not be possible for me to convene the Committee on External Relations immediately and for us to decide in common agreement when we will discuss the resolution next week? In doing so, we give substance to the competent urgency of Mr Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u22	I think that everyone in the hemisphere is aware that we need to discuss this resolution as soon as possible, but we are going to wait for consideration, with the reference of the resolution to committee expressly mentioned. In the meantime, we will continue our legislative work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u23	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne and I have tabled a motion for a resolution on the same subject. I imagine it will be joined by our colleagues at Ecolo-Groen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u24	Of course. It's over, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u25	By letter dated 12 November 2018, Mr Sander Loones informed the President of the European Parliament that he had been appointed a member of the Belgian federal government on 12 November 2018. By letter of 12 November 2018, Mr Sander Loones informed the President of the European Parliament of his appointment on 12 November 2018 as a member of the Belgian federal government. In accordance with Article 7 (1) of the Act of 20 September 1976 concerning the election of representatives of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, this function is incompatible with the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament. In accordance with Article 7, para. 1 of the Act of 20 September 1976 on the election of representatives to the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, this function is incompatible with the term of office of a Member of the European Parliament. The successor to replace Mr Sander Loones is Mr Ralph Packet. The alternate to replace Mr Sander Loones is Mr Ralph Packet. It appears that he still fulfils the eligibility conditions laid down in Article 41 of the Law of 23 March 1989 concerning the election of the European Parliament. It appears that he still fulfils the eligibility conditions laid down in Article 41 of the Act of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament. In order to enable Mr Ralph Packet to exercise his mandate as a Member of the European Parliament, I propose that Mr Ralph Packet be proposed as a permanent Member of the European Parliament. In order to enable Mr Ralph Packet to exercise his mandate as a Member of the European Parliament, I propose that you introduce Mr Ralph Packet as an effective member of the European Parliament. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u26	The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Van Hoof and Mr Flahaux, who refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the situation of women is increasingly the subject of every attention in this House, through fine speeches for some and through concrete proposals for others. The report we are discussing today is a perfect reflection of this. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not teach you anything by telling you that inequalities between women and men remain particularly striking in the world of work. Women continue to be less well paid for work of equal value. [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u28	Colleagues, may I ask your attention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u29	I hope that the subject is of interest to at least everyone to the same degree as the other subjects. I'm going on. Women are increasingly finding it difficult to take up positions with responsibilities. Women face increasing challenges in reconciling their private and professional lives. Women continue to hold more part-time positions. The challenges are therefore still numerous and they must be addressed by all public authorities and in all spheres of society. While the federated entities have important competences in education, training, employment and the fight against stereotypes, the federal government has the keys to opening up some of the barriers that still block this equality between women and men in the labour market. It was therefore with great enthusiasm and ambition that the members of the Social Emancipation Opinion Committee decided to seize this issue more than 18 months ago. To help us feed our thinking and make concrete recommendations, we decided to hear from experts from all walks of life: field associations, public equality institutes, trade unions, regional employment services and academics. As chair of the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee, however, I speak today with bitterness and regret. The work was long. The hearings were rich and the discussions were very interesting, but the recommendations presented are clearly insufficient in my view. My group obviously supports the report that is being presented. I would also like to thank the people who have been interviewed, the services of the committee and the rapporteurs Mrs Van Hoof and Mr Flahaux for the important work they have done. However, it is clear that, for my group, the recommendations made are not sufficiently concrete, not sufficiently precise and not sufficiently ambitious. These recommendations are the broadest possible compromise, a much too soft consensus that we can no longer satisfy. I give you a few examples. First, in the area of tackling the wage gap, there is no concrete proposal, while many speakers have put ways of improving the wage gap on the table. It was pointed out that several countries, such as Iceland, the United Kingdom and Germany, have taken initiatives to strengthen equal pay by making companies more transparent and publicizing wage data in a variety of ways. My group is convinced that further steps must be taken, in particular by making the 2012 law more binding. Here, it is simply proposed to evaluate, to continue. This is not enough! Secondly, with regard to the fight against the glass ceiling, it is proposed that new arrangements be put in place. It's a little vague, you'll agree. As I said in plenary two weeks ago, I hope that my colleagues on the Social Empowerment Opinion Committee will agree that we in our committee will carry out a true X-ray of the position of women in the leading positions of public entities in the broad sense to understand why the glass ceiling remains unbreakable in certain places and that, finally, we can put concrete proposals on the table in this context. Thirdly, in the area of entrepreneurship, maternity leave for self-employed persons has increased from 12 to 15 weeks. This is a great step forward, which we must stress. But why not promote, for the future, an additional step, by bringing the social security coverage of the self-employed closer to that of the employees, who is fifteen weeks? Why not have pleaded for optional paternity leave for the self-employed, in order to promote the empowerment of women and the equality of independent men and women? The fourth example concerns the reconciliation between private and professional life. This is one of the weakest parts of this text for me. There are many avenues in this context. Let us take the collective reduction of working time, and because certain measures were unanimous among the speakers, the revalorisation of parental leave, to allow for a better distribution of parental leave, or the need to extend and make compulsory paternity leave, which was repeatedly stressed at the hearings, in order to remove the pressure still exerted on men who request it from their employer. This would allow recognition of the father's role in the child from birth and thus achieve parental equality within the couple. However, it was impossible to obtain any progress in this direction from the majority. And that's not all! A better early childhood care policy, but also for the elderly, has been identified as essential to help women and men reconcile their private and professional lives. It is difficult to make recommendations to this effect, of course, as this is reflected in the responsibilities of the federated entities. But there is another element that we could have looked at: the close caregivers, who put their careers in brackets to look after a dependent relative. Nor did the majority take the recommendations into account. She is simply talking about information, awareness and incentives to improve this difficult conciliation. It's still too much or very weak. The fifth example concerns access to the labour market and the fight against discrimination against women, and specifically women of foreign origin. Our hearings show that activation policies at the regional level are essential to raise the awareness of these women, to provide them with advice and to provide them with training. At the federal level, we must, in particular, allow the development of situation tests. We can welcome this, because we have a sufficient legal arsenal. However, it needs to be refined and improved to ensure its real effectiveness, which is still lacking today. In this context, the evaluation report on anti-discrimination laws is a valuable tool, and it was pointed out at our hearings that it would be extremely useful to be able to implement the famous positive actions. But for this, there is a lack of a royal decree, which the majority did not want to see included in our recommendations, something which is totally incomprehensible. Sixth example: in the fight against involuntary part-time work, I am quite surprised by the weakness of the proposals. This is a matter of real concern. In 2015, 27 per cent of the working population worked part-time, 80 per cent of whom were women. Of all employed women, 44 per cent worked part-time, with consequences, and it will never be recalled enough, on women's wages, their economic autonomy and the distribution of family tasks. It was therefore important to take concrete steps to improve that situation. They were put on the table. I am thinking of limiting job offers only on a part-time basis, or of revising the rules on overtime in part-time work. What are our rapporteurs and the majority proposing today? Nothing! Because the government would have already taken the necessary steps. This seems completely inaudible to us, and in total contradiction to what was put forward in our hearings. See the flexibilisation of employment put in place by this government. It will make it even more difficult for women, who will find it more difficult to receive training, for example, or to look after their children who do not work flexibly. Their living conditions will therefore be made even more difficult. This allows me to make a logical transition to my last point, namely the importance of assessing the impact of government decisions on women. Many speakers highlighted the Government's negative actions against women. We are constantly denouncing them. These include the extension of the statutory pension age to 67 years, the tightening of access to early retirement pensions, attacks on similar periods, flexibilisation of employment, and the reduction of the guaranteed income allowance for women working involuntarily on a part-time basis. All these reforms are against women and towards greater equality. It was therefore essential for us to have an assessment of their impact included in the recommendations of this report in order to make the necessary corrections. Of course, an end to non-receiving is opposed to this request by the majority. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the recommendations made were addressed to the Secretary of State, Mrs Demir, whose absence I regret today, as part of the drafting of her Federal Action Plan on Gender and Employment, but also to all members of the government. In order to remedy the shortcomings I have pointed out and to strengthen this report, my group and others have proposed a series of amendments; proposals which, I would remind you, have been suggested to us by the various experts heard in committee. Unfortunately, the majority did not show any openness. The agreement reached between the various partners and, no doubt, approved by the government, was apparently untouchable. I cannot help but note again this great gap between words and deeds. I can't help but think about the release of Mr. De Croo, entitled "The Women's Century" and described by the Prime Minister as "proclaiming a strong and inspiring message". I would point out that, among the proposals put forward in this book, there is the extension of paternity leave or the obligation of transparency on the part of companies with regard to the wage gap; two elements which are not reflected in the report. I cannot help but rethink Mrs Wilmès who, in an interview, said that she did not understand that someone did not define themselves as feminist, the feminism of claiming that women are equal to men. I cannot help but rethink the laconic communiqué trying to make it appear that this government is mobilizing for equality between men and women. So I can't help but think it's just com. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we cannot tax the opposition as bad language which describes the government's action, because the points raised today have been made by many speakers who have taken part in our work. If this majority really wanted to link its fine words to deeds, the recommendations today on our benches would have been much more ambitious, much more concrete, much more in favour of real equality between men and women. As Chair of the Advisory Committee on Social Empowerment, I express my disappointment today at the content of these final recommendations. My group has tabled a motion with a new set of important recommendations that should have been included in this report, echoing the many hearings we have had. Mrs Van Hoof, Mr Flahaux, the broadest possible compromise is no longer enough. The result does not seem to me to be up to the work that has been done. The result is not equal to the wealth of hearings and debates we have had. And the result is simply not up to the challenge, that of equality between men and women in the labour market, an issue which, in my view, has never been that of the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mr Winckel for the constructive way in which she has chaired the Advisory Committee in recent months. Since April 2017, the Advisory Committee for Social Emancipation has focused on gender and employment. After hearing about 30 people and organisations, we confirmed our earlier observation that there are still a lot of problems in this area. Our Secretary of State is very aware of this. Since her arrival in February 2017, she has addressed this problem vigorously. Many of the recommendations made by the Advisory Committee have already been drawn up by its cabinet. The resolution was adopted by seven votes to two. Unfortunately, certain parties felt that this resolution did not go far enough. However, all the recommendations made ensure better follow-up and improvement of this dossier which deserves our attention. The Advisory Committee has taken into account realistic expectations without wishing to interfere in the private sphere. That is why it has not made any recommendations on the mandatory inclusion of paternity leave. Sensitising is not a problem, but forcing this and having a stick behind the door is sometimes too far. Last year, in collaboration with Hogeschool PLX, a campaign was launched "Old leave seeks fathers." In the course of this autumn, the Secretary of State will look at how this campaign can be more anchored in society. Parental leave is not an extension, but rather a commitment to better recordings by the fathers. You can do this, but you don't have to. Full-time work must also be encouraged. In this context, the federal government has already taken measures to lead those who work part-time involuntarily to full-time employment, by encouraging employers to increase the employment of these part-time workers if there is work available. Not only the employer, but also the employee must be encouraged to do so. A study by the Economic and Social Council of Flanders shows that more than 66% of inactive women of different origin are housewives, compared with 28% of inactive housewives of Belgian descent. This group of women is an important group of workers who can have a positive impact on a better gender balance in the labour market. We support the recommendations or findings of the advisory committee and we also look forward, together with you, Mr Winckel, I suppose, to the Secretary of State's policy paper next week, which will, of course, also pay particular attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, after months of work and dozens of hearings, I was very proud to be a rapporteur with my colleague and friend, Els Van Hoof, on this issue of employment and gender. In fact, the truth prompts me to say that the proposal to put this topic on the agenda came from a Member of Parliament who was not yet Secretary of State, Zuhal Demir. It was she who proposed adding this theme, and I thank her for that. I can understand Fabienne Winckel's remarks, which I also like very much, but the opinion committee is first and foremost a sting that requires the transversality of the evolution of things. In this sense, the very fact of dealing with the subject will already in itself make a difference. We will be responsible, as members of the advisory committee, for ensuring that the ministers responsible move the legislation but above all the application of the existing laws. This is what we have noticed in conducting all these hearings: in a whole series of areas, laws exist but are not yet sufficiently enforced, if not at all. This is the fundamental interest of our work: to highlight all that is a problem in this area Employment and gender. As such, I am particularly proud, as a man, to be here in the gallery. The very first time I sat on the Social Emancipation Opinion Committee in 2007, I was the only man, until the first Open Vld of Ghent joined me when he became a parliamentarian. This means that at that time, equality issues were not of interest to men. I'm going to say something that may not please the majority of them. Still today, many consider it a "nanas" problem. I do not agree at all with that view. I believe that things will change in terms of gender equality when men change about this issue. It is not women who must become feminists, but men. That is how we will change the situation and I am deeply convinced of it. Gender equality is still a question today, even in Belgium, which is rather a good pupil or, at least, one of the worst pupils in the European and world class. This is evident in the world of work: wage inequality, pressure exerted, part-time work, access to the market, and I am going through it. These are all facets that illustrate this phenomenon. For this reason, the opinion committee decided to consider ways to combat sexual assault. It should be recalled that it was thanks to the opinion committee that the Secretary of State had set up the three centres - Brussels, Liège and Gantois - which promoted uniqueness in the reception of victims of sexual assault. This system works so well that it records — alas! - twice as many people as we anticipated. Moreover, Secretary of State Zuhal Demir has the ambition to open one by province, as unfortunately they are necessary. For each of the themes, we tried to retain as many considerations as we could, as Fabienne Winckel reminded us, the many witnesses and experts we heard. Because the issues of equality between men and women obviously go beyond party divisions, we have taken the step of retaining the proposals that have a consensus of all kinds. It is in this sense that I understand Mrs Winckel. She is in the opposition and must therefore try to push the plug as far as possible. But I would also like to point out, as my predecessor of the N-VA said, that this report has been approved more widely than by the government majority alone. I think that's an important point. Admittedly, Mrs Winckel, there are things – I say them personally – on which I would have liked to have gone further, but the objective of the opinion committee is to work with the widest possible consensus. It is in this sense that some of the requests that have been made have not been accepted. However, I would like to say that we have accepted proposals from Ecolo and sp.a. in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u32	This is not a question of majority versus opposition. I don't think, to use your expression, I'm pushing the plug too far. I will take two examples. The experts who came to us unanimously told us that paternity leave was an element on which to work, making it mandatory to advance equality and to remove this pressure on fathers when they ask their employers to do so. For many employers, it is indeed a means of pressure that means that many fathers do not take their leave. I think that could have been a gesture, especially since this message came from all the people we received at the hearings. Another example that affects me a lot is in relation to SECAL and maintenance claims. We just put a little phrase saying "improve access" but I wish we'd gone further. It still came back several times during the auditions. It is known that this is an important work for families where one of the parents is deficient in the payment of the support claim. I would therefore have liked us to go further by ensuring that we were going to provide human and financial resources to provide a truly effective service, otherwise this structure will not be sufficiently effective in relation to the needs of Belgian society.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u33	What you're saying is not contradictory to what I mentioned. You are referring to the unanimity of the experts – and you are not wrong – and I am referring to the composition of the opinion committee. We tried to go as far as possible. For example, the experience I hear from people who have benefited from or implemented paternity leave is that men become more feminist once they have exercised it. I agree with you on the substance and I dream that in the very near future we will go towards this. But for the time being, the composition of the Committee has meant that we have not been able to go so far. But I remain convinced that there will still be steps to be taken after the general elections. This will be a great challenge for the discussions we will have. For each theme I have outlined, we have made a series of recommendations to the executive. By way of executive, I see more broadly than the federal government, since, as you yourself have pointed out, some matters are of regional or even community jurisdiction. Everyone needs to move forward by common accord in order to move things forward. The issue of gender equality is receiving attention and calls for greater cooperation between the levels of power and better coordination of initiatives taken by each. This issue is primarily societal, and both the Regions and Communities and the Federal have their role to play in changing attitudes. In this context, education is one of the vital elements. I would like to mention a few recommendations. As far as the gap is concerned, it is true that things remain to be done. I would remind you that Belgium is one of the countries in Europe – apart from Iceland, which has recently shown the way – to have the lowest wage gap. We're about 7%. It's still 7% too much and you have to push the lights. From this point of view, the 2012 law is not sufficiently enforced. The full implementation of this law must be ensured by adopting, where appropriate, new legislative instruments as well as by promoting sectoral agreements and measures at the enterprise level to combat wage differentials. With regard to this wage gap, the effectiveness of the law will always have to be assessed by giving specific attention to the application of analytical reports at the firm level and the role of the mediator. In addition, more data should be made available on the individual remuneration structure of enterprises in order to facilitate research into the wage gap, while ensuring the confidentiality of such data. Balance is not always easy. Finally, there is a need to define the benefits in the pay analysis because benefits in kind are sometimes a means of increasing the gap. We have to work on it. In order to combat the glass ceiling, it is necessary to explore the possibility of setting up new mechanisms in the interministerial consultation committee and with the social partners, by encouraging women's access to senior and leading positions in the administration through monitoring activities. There is also the whole part of the symbolism. From this point of view, in Belgium, we can be happy to have women at the head of two of our largest public companies, SNCB and Proximus. Women also make use of examples. I am thinking in particular of the fact that the powerful political personality in Europe is a woman, Angela Merkel. It is obviously an essential element of motivation for young girls and women who say "why not me". Women's entrepreneurship should be encouraged by providing information on existing opportunities and by supporting organizations that provide administrative or financial support to start an entrepreneurial activity. The image that a woman can less than a man being a business manager is still alive, even though it is not true. In general, they manage finances better than men, I have often noticed. There is also a need to improve the information given to women entrepreneurs on the extension of maternity leave from eight to twelve weeks and the granting of 105 service certificates, including through social secretariats. For women to develop entrepreneurship, they must be supported by society. The feminization of trades is a point to which I am extremely attentive, just like the MR. The overview of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men should be used to promote employment in sectors where there is a shortage of women or men, in particular by developing training and information on these sectors, with particular attention to occupations in need. There is a need to inform and raise awareness among the sectors concerned, enterprises and SMEs. There are often links between the different themes. Take the example of paternity leave. Paternity leave is rarely used in sectors where a majority of men work, such as road transport or construction. Ensuring that there are more women in these occupations will open up minds and change mindsets. It's important. I realize I'm a little long. I could still talk about access to the labour market, the institutional aspects...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u34	The document is 200 pages long!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u35	Mrs Fonck, you are right: it is a very rich document. We've done a lot of work. I would also like to mention the problem of reconciling leave and private life with work. There's a lot to do. It is an area where things exist and are not always used by those who can benefit from them. Focusing and encouraging governments to make further efforts to inform are also part of our report's functions. For example, paternity leave was mentioned. At present, many fathers, regardless of possible pressure from employers, out of ignorance or because they believe that a man taking paternity leave is not a real man, do not benefit from it. We have to change that. As Mrs Fonck said, the document is extremely lengthy. But the purpose of our discussion today – a pity that not all Members are present – is to use the conclusions and recommendations of our report so that everyone can get into it and ensure that the ministers' administrations implement them. Admittedly, Mrs Winckel, the recommendations could perhaps have gone further. But if we were to apply all those contained in the report, we would have taken another important step. I am the first, on behalf of the MR, to go even further towards full equality between men and women.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like my dear colleague Jean-Jacques Flahaux, I am delighted to be able to present here today as co-rapporteur of the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee the recommendations on the situation of women in the labour market. My special thanks to the President and all my colleagues who have contributed constructively to this. It was a very rich debate in the advisory committee, which can still often be used to draw up good legislative proposals. We shall certainly do so together. These were very intense months, from April 2017 to January 2018, in which we heard more than thirty experts on gender and employment. From the many analyses from different angles, we can only conclude one case. Gender equality has not yet been achieved in this country. The pay gap between male and female workers remains, finding immigrant women but with difficulty the path to the labour market and women are still not sufficiently represented in top positions. For example, stereotypes such as the traditional distribution of family tasks or the softer woman who is not suitable for leading positions under the skin remain deeply embedded in our thoughts and in our laws, or in the absence of laws. The bottomline is that having children still works discriminatoryly for women or has a negative impact on the career, which is unacceptable. That is why policies are needed to bridge that gap. This gap has not come about by itself, nor will it be closed by itself. Hence the need for imposed and mandatory measures. Our group is convinced of this. That is never easy because they intervene in habits and in the private sphere. However, our group is convinced that it is the only way to build a society of this kind. The Advisory Committee has tried to pool the issues involved and to formulate appropriate solutions through the hearings with the experts. Steps have been taken forward in every aspect. It is true that it does not go far enough, but the ink of the recommendations was not yet dry or Alexander De Croo also had a moving insight and announced the century of the woman. Minister Peeters also announced that he would examine paternity discrimination. I think our cause has inspired everyone to think further. We have re-launched the debate. It is also up to the Advisory Committee to make recommendations in this consensus which will inspire others. Let me briefly explain the importance of some of the measures proposed. The pay gap is a first crucial and widely discussed element. The pay gap exists and will not be closed automatically if we do not take additional measures. Today, the pay gap is still 20% and it is stabilizing. In hourly earnings, the pay gap is still 7.6 %. The difference is, of course, in part-time work and when the wage is viewed on an hourly or annual basis. Of women employed, 44 per cent work part-time and 54 per cent of women with three children, which is an insane number. Part of those women, more specifically one in five, work part-time involuntarily. With each additional child, the pay gap is growing by 7%. Although the pay gap is linked to the employment gap and part-time work, the extra-legal benefits to which Mr Flahaux referred, and the non-loved company car, because today 53% of the male executives have a company car, compared with 38% for women, and in the middle sector, 39% for men, compared with 15% for women, have a company car. Extralegal benefits are clearly not intended for women. Of course, we believe that there should be greater transparency at company level. The wage gap law is somewhat inadequate in this respect, which has also been clearly demonstrated by the hearings, because one in three analysis reports to be made at company level is not properly completed according to the trade unions. That must be improved, and that is why we are calling for an evaluation of the pay gap law. The pay gap law provides for a role for a mediator if the analysis report on the remuneration structures is not sufficient. The role of the mediator should also be evaluated, considering, as one of the possible options, the possibility of requiring the mediator. The pay gap is only part of a complex problem. Another problem, which is actually the root of various other problems, is the deep-seated ideas about the role of women in the family, which do not give women the opportunity to focus fully on their careers. We all know that women have six hours of free time per week and spend seven hours more on the household per week. Men work six hours a week more than women work on the labour market. Those are inequalities that need to be undone. We also note today that there is discrimination in the labour market: four out of ten complaints that come to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men are about pregnancy and maternity. That's aberrant in these times. Having a child still works discriminatoryly and role-proofing. One example of this is breast-feeding: 20% of women who breast-feed say that this is not allowed by their employer in the workplace, while the labour law provides for a collective agreement that, in order to avoid discrimination, a woman has half an hour per half-day to pump milk. Today, women cannot even complain to the Institute, and that is why we propose in the report that the various criteria, such as breastfeeding and paternity, because fathers are discriminated against if they want to take parental leave, to be included in anti-discrimination legislation. Medically assisted reproduction should also be investigated in this light. This is a very intensive process, in which women are often absent from work because of the intense treatment they need. This is not always accepted by the employer. There have been many trials before the court which have shown discrimination in the field of medically assisted reproduction. That is why we believe that this should also be examined and that it should also be part of anti-discrimination legislation. A third element that I would certainly like to mention and on which there has been a great deal to do in recent weeks is the quota legislation of 2011. This law, which calls for at least one third of the board of top companies to be made up of women, should also be amended. This is also clearly stated in the recommendations and is very important. When the law was introduced, managers of top companies shouted murder and fire that it was impossible to find women before the board of directors. Now we don't hear about it anymore. There is even general satisfaction with this legislation and its application, to the extent that the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee calls for the law to be evaluated earlier than envisaged. The law planned an evaluation in 2023, but we are already asking for an evaluation in 2020 and we are adding it because there is something in the recommendations, which could actually be a coat rack for the future, which should also be looked at in the management committees. Today, less than 10% of board members are women, especially in autonomous public enterprises. An important aspect that we have added to the text is that it is not just about the boards of directors, but also about the management committees in which the government is a majority shareholder and in which there is social capital. That too must be looked at. The Advisory Committee therefore recommends that appropriate measures be taken on the basis of an evaluation. I would like to conclude with a very pertinent problem, which cannot be ignored, namely the employment rate of women with a migration background. Their employment rate is particularly low. Depending on the country of origin, it evolves from 30% to 40%. There is a need for urgent action in this area. We need to step up our efforts in terms of activation, awareness and training. Choquering are the figures in the report on women with a migration background, who are 18 % less likely to get a response to an application letter. They also have 28% less chance of being invited to a job interview. Those numbers are shocking for everyone. The mystery calls aren't coming too soon in that area. Moreover, we must focus on training and language and on removing cultural barriers and make work a positive story. Work must not only be something that generates a material income, but must also be something that gives intangible wealth. That is also the testimony we received from Ella on the committee. For women affected by these cultural barriers, work is very enriching because it enables them to network at work. In this way, we can also address the potential of women. Colleagues, in a nutshell, these are some important elements of the Action Plan, with recommendations on gender and employment. We can no longer be satisfied with pointing out that much has already been improved. In the free society of the 21st century, in which I hope you all support the idea of equal opportunities, we cannot be satisfied with almost equality. As indicated earlier by a historian, Sophie De Schaepdrijver, a breakthrough is not enough to have equality. We must continue and go for effective equality. I fully support that view. The recommendations are an important step in this direction, as well as an important thruster for future initiatives and an important coat rack to which much can be hanged. I therefore hope that our Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities will finally come forward with her plan on gender and employment. I hope that it will do so before the end of the current period of government, so that we can continue to work in a positive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mrs Winckel, for the good organisation of the committee's work, in which more than 30 speakers were invited and many hearings were held with experts. I would also like to thank all the speakers to whom the report will be forwarded, as well as all the colleagues and all the services who have contributed to it. The Open Vld Group supports the text before us. I do not see him sitting in the hemisphere at the moment, Mr Flahaux, who said that men often think that women should solve it themselves, that it is a women's problem. Well, we at Open Vld, with Alexander De Croo who bombed the 21st century into the century of women, can say that this item, at least within our party, is no longer a women's problem. Minister De Croo calls his book an assignment book, a book to work with. Well, this report is also a work in progress. After all, it is a large report which contains a great deal of information and figures from the speakers and the experts. It is also important that this is not an end point but a new starting point. This is another elaborate piece of work. A few months ago, we also presented a comprehensive report on sexual violence. From the advisory committee we managed to put a number of important issues on the agenda. It will indeed be a coat rack for the future, Mrs Van Hoof. A wide range of topics were addressed, such as the pay gap, the glass ceiling, the precarious participation of women with a migrant background in the labour market, female entrepreneurship. The common thread throughout all the discussions was that there is indeed a lot of work to be done, but that an important signal is also given that figures are essential. Measuring is and remains to be seen. On this basis, sensible proposals can be put forward. Once again, it became clear in our meetings that the theme of employment and gender is a house with many rooms. In order to ensure that more women can and continue to work, different problems need to be addressed. One example is the importance of adequate and affordable childcare, which has been underlined several times. Another example is the importance of parental care, which faces many working families and especially women. If we all think that women need to be more active in the labour market, then these are elements on which we must work. With regard to parental leave, I am particularly in favour of flexibility and freedom of choice, so that parents can put the puzzle together. As you know, our group has put forward a number of proposals for this. I would stress that the problem of divorced parents is very big and that this remains an important point of attention. On the subject of leave, we have said that, if budgetary means are available, the conditions for including leave in the various systems should be flexible. In addition, we have put forward a number of proposals in our recommendations, which will enable us to work effectively. I am thinking, for example, of the division of labour, the role of women in the family, the feminisation of the professions and female entrepreneurship. This week, moreover, when we heard the policy papers from various ministers, including Minister Peeters and Minister Ducarme, we noticed that they included female entrepreneurship in their policy letters. That is a step in the right direction. Then there's the glass ceiling and the pay gap. Minister De Croo refers in his book to the fact that many companies have a lot of information, with tons of data on recruitment, career, salary and promotion. It is important to compile statistics on this so that we have more information, because, once again, we know how to measure it. Ladies and gentlemen, our work has resulted in a series of serious recommendations, a coat of arms for the future, a workbook. We intend to do so, and you can expect a number of legislative proposals from our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the chairman of the working group, Fabienne Winckel, for her gentle and diplomatic approach. I would also like to thank the members of the committee, in which there were many women, for the respectful way in which the hearings were organized and how they dealt with each other. If we want to develop a sustainable policy in politics, we need to think carefully about what to expect and what the challenges are. We must then develop the appropriate actions. It is often thought in politics that, if one has invented something, it will be reality in the next day. No, the hard reality is that we have to invest a lot to change things. Change takes time, something that today, like patience, is scarce in our society. Another theorem I move forward is based on my extensive experience. If we want to change things in society, we have to start with women. If one starts a project and the women are not enthusiastic about it, then stop it, because it will not work. Ask welfare and development workers, they'll agree with me. So for the future, we need far-sighted women. Anyone who knows the history of socialism knows that it was a very successful movement, not only for women but also for the children of workers' women and workers. If one looks at the future, it is also one of our challenges, and I say it with some irony, although there is a lot of truth in it: it is to strive for quality. Quality can almost no longer be achieved only in our complex society. Socially intelligent teamwork with many people, taking into account everyone's needs, is the great challenge for the future. By the way, this is a typical female attitude, although I would like to start a philosophical discussion about whether men can develop that attitude. I also find it particularly painful, even shameful, that we still have to talk today about the subject of employment, employment and gender. I assume that everyone is convinced that they are entitled to workable work, as the government describes it, but we also need to look at what this workable work means. Is it quality, respectful and stable? I often hear pleas for more work, work for everyone and longer work here, but when one hears in the field about the circumstances in which people sometimes have to work, one can only conclude that the situation does not improve. If we want more men and women to work, we must provide framework measures, which will give men and women a greater sense of working. A lot of people don't get opportunities. There is a great deal of discrimination in access to the labour market. Often people are too old. I dare anyone over 45 years of age to look for a job. One can also be too young and inexperienced or have too much experience, have a disability, be a woman, have a strange name or are too high or undereducated. It's really not obvious. In fact, we must call on employers to abandon their conservative attitude, because they themselves will be the first victims. If a lot of people are told that they are not able to work or if they are not offered opportunities to work, then they should not complain afterwards that they do not find good workers. The report is very thick. I hope it doesn't disappear in a drawer to never come up again. That is the biggest risk. Recommendations are made, including on the pay gap. In fact, I feel personally concerned about this. After all, in the long discussions I had with the social partners, trade unions and employers, the employers spoke out against compelling measures, arguing that they understood that they had to do something about the pay gap; they asked for the dynamism to play, adding that they would be responsible. The same applies to diversity. By the way, for me, the theme of man-woman relations is also about diversity. The question of the pay gap would therefore be included in the works council. But when I look at the results, I see that there is little in the annual report on social aspects such as diversity, gender balance and pay gap. In my view, we should think about changing things. We have had the opportunity to do this voluntarily. If we do not take that into account, we may have to impose measures in this area. There is, on the one hand, the glass ceiling and, on the other hand, the sticky floor, which means that an employee sticks to the bottom of the ladder. A few weeks ago, we had a discussion here about the shortage of women in positions of very high responsibility on the issue of the National Bank. Now there is a proposal to beg one third of these jobs to women by 2023. It was then suggested that women should be separated from the sticky floor and that they should be convinced that they are capable enough to take on certain jobs. After all, women often think they can't do something, that they're not good enough, not beautiful enough or not smart enough. Well, we must be aware of this factor and pursue a conscious policy in this area. If we want more women entrepreneurs, we must realise that the same things are happening. Women are sometimes afraid to take risks and entrepreneurship is not evident, especially today. For the feminisation of professions, infrastructure needs to be provided, for example in the police and fire brigades. For example, I mention facilities such as toilets for women and dressing rooms. A safe environment must be created. I also mention the way of communicating. One has to treat each other respectfully; that is very important. In my view, education plays a very important role in terms of access to the labour market. A good diploma, a good education, makes access to the labour market easier. Europe has once again turned its back on Belgium because of the low participation of women with an ethnic background in our labour market. It will probably be discussed in greater detail next week. The mysterycalls are a first step in getting rid of that problem, but in my opinion there is still much more work to be done. Another element, which has already been mentioned several times, is paternity leave. This requires a change of attitude. There is, however, some reluctance to require their inclusion. Well, I am sorry that some parties are constantly calling for what some sections of the population have to do, while they do not insist on matters such as paternity leave. Minorities and newcomers must integrate; they must learn our language; they must, must, must, all kinds of things are required and imposed upon them. On the other hand, paternity leave is left to the individual free choice of employers in particular. I don't think that's consistent. We need to have a serious discussion about this. Finally, I am particularly pleased that the text recommends gender analysis in two areas. A first area is the accidents at work. Many consequences of accidents at work are also recognised as occupational diseases, but, in my opinion, these occupational diseases are mainly male, while several diseases are linked to typical female occupations. I therefore think that a gender analysis is desirable in this area, and that is what the recommendations say. A second domain deals with the fact that more and more women are becoming long-term ill. Of course, more women are participating in the labour market. However, it is necessary to examine why people in some occupational categories die nine years earlier than others. The life expectancy of a cleaning woman, for example, is nine years lower than that of someone with another job. We must also go along with our time in these two areas. Furthermore, a thorough research policy on the relationship between family, leisure and work has been identified. There are a number of recommendations for this, but if we want more people to work and work longer, we need to pay much more attention to the current working context. We need to look at how we can achieve this without people disappearing due to burn-out, depression or physical problems. There is also a great deal to do with the issue of mobility. We must look at this in the future. I understand that the committee chairman considers the result to be a lean animal, too skinny. It's a step, when it actually takes two or three steps. I supported the amendment to make a gender analysis of the measures taken by this government in the areas of flexibilisation of work, pensions and so on. Unfortunately, this amendment was not adopted, although such an analysis would have been interesting not to trip over the same stones in the future. For the sake of clarity, the sp.a adopted the text. It is indeed only one step, and I would have preferred to have taken two, although that brings us to the discussion whether the glass is half empty or half full. If serious work is being done on what is now going on, and there is no excuse not to do so, then we are getting a long way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I would also like to thank the opinion committee for Social Empowerment for its analysis of the recommendations and, of course, its chairman. It is true that the observation is implacable. The various aspects have been highlighted here. I shall therefore not take them back, especially since the document is quite extensive. To go straight to the point, if I may say so, I would like to point out that we have tabled many bills, not only since the beginning of this Parliament, but also under the previous Parliament, dealing with a whole range of issues such as work-life balance, SECAL and maintenance claims, maternity leave, close caregivers, pay gap, etc. I heard Mr Flahaux say earlier that the report was there to move the lines and to move the government. But, dear colleague, the legislator is us. The legislator does not have to send the potato – if I may say so – back to the government. It can, of course, decide to deal with these matters, not only through a report such as the one in question. I can therefore only call on my colleagues from the majority and the opposition, and in particular the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, who is not present in this House, to take the necessary steps to deal with long-standing legislative proposals in this committee, for which there has never been, or almost never has been, enough space or opportunity to include them on the agenda, which I regret. Indeed, it is through legislative changes that concrete progress can be made in this area. Some texts have been tabled since several legislatures. Some aspects highlighted in this report have been known since several legislatures. Some expressed their willingness, at the time of the elections, during the electoral period, all parties involved, to make changes. Since then, everything has been blocked. It's good to make this report, but it's time to move on to action. I repeat again: let us move forward as a legislator, without referring the ball back to the government. As regards our group's position on today's vote, we will approve the recommendations drawn up by the opinion committee. As I just said, we could go much further and show more ambition. We cannot content ourselves with this approval of a report and then return to our occupations as the majority seems to do with the motion that it submits to our vote. We need to do more. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority and of the opposition, I have heard a large part of you agree with a large number of points. Shit! Let us put on the agenda the existing legislative proposals on all these matters! Concretize your words because they are no longer enough for me!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u40	Mr President, it is up to me to conclude this exciting debate. First of all, I would like to thank you and congratulate you for the impressive work that has been done by the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee. I was able to read the 192 pages of the report, with many opinions and recommendations from the hearings. I found this text very rich and very interesting. It states that certain findings are unappealable and that a series of claims and recommendations return systematically. On the other hand, I was surprised by the fact that when it comes to taking action and therefore drafting the recommendations to be voted on in plenary, ambitions are greatly reduced. In the end, the text before us today lacks ambition and firmness. I take the example of paternity leave, which was mentioned today. I was really disappointed to see that it is only proposed to introduce an awareness campaign to encourage fathers to take paternity leave and to do more family work. Today, for example, my colleague Mr Flahaux, I hear that the envy was there but that this was not possible this time, that men are not ready. But, you know, women are tired of waiting! It seems to me that, to make a child, you have to be two. I am surprised to hear that some men may not want to take care of their newborn during the first two weeks of their lives. I'm thinking maybe there's a problem. Or perhaps employers do not want to grant paternity leave to their employees. That is an issue for me, and that is where the obligation becomes interesting. At 31, I have many friends and friends who are beginning to have children. It's really hard, actually. When the father has to leave after just two weeks, because he chose to take his leave, it's already very hard. In Scandinavian countries, they are one year old. In fact, it is in these moments of the baby's life that the division of labour is emerging. If men are not involved from the beginning in the organization and care of children, then it is the woman who is responsible for the whole mental burden of the organization of the household and the tasks. The man, in fact, only helps his wife in tasks at home and in caring for the children. This is why mandatory paternity leave is urgently needed. I was also able to see that this government tended to procrastinate on certain measures. For example, as far as gender mainstreaming is concerned, I read that "the hearings have revealed that existing tools are too late in the decision-making process". What is the final proposal of the report? To carry out a study which will eventually allow to see what is to be put in place; whereas the measure to be put in place is written black and white in the report. I find it a little difficult to understand the engine of all this and the real ambition. To conclude on this point, although I agree with a number of the proposals put forward, I really cannot follow you when you say that you want to continue mainstreaming the gender dimension systematically, at all levels, into all the measures and reforms put in place by the government. The analysis of your government's record, of all subjects, shows, above all, systematic attacks on women's rights. Take, for example, pension reform. Women are known to have the most fragmented careers, 50 per cent of which are part-time, compared with 10 per cent of men. It is also known that women occupy the most precarious jobs. They are the first victims of the pension reforms carried out by you, Mr Bacquelaine. Secondly, with regard to the flexibilisation of the labour market, currently organized by Minister Peeters, they are also systematic attacks on women's rights. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have done in this committee, we have tabled a series of amendments to enhance the ambitions of the text and bring it back in line with the proposals made at the hearings. They were all rejected. Today, we have tabled a motion. This is the last chance to improve this text and bring it to the height of the hearings and all the work you have done. Through these measures, which I am not all about to do, we propose that you go further in the measures you propose and that you introduce three measures which I believe are essential and which are absent from these claims. First of all, we want to support close caregivers by preserving and improving social rights. Secondly, we want to extend paternity leave from 10 to 15 days and make it compulsory. We also want to introduce paternity leave for the self-employed. Finally, there is a very strong demand from the field to eliminate the fact that, if women became ill during pregnancy, their maternity leave was reduced. It is essential to put an end to this totally unjust situation, which is harmful to the health of the child. In conclusion, I would like to recall a promise made by the Prime Minister to organize a foundation for women's rights. These foundations must be organized in an honest manner by entrusting them to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men and to women's rights associations, with the aim of reporting on the overall situation of women's rights in our country, in all areas, and to make specific recommendations to be implemented by the Government in order to remedy the problems encountered. This is how you can demonstrate your real commitment to changing the position of women in the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u41	Mr President, I wanted to provide more information. The pension punishes the career, as has always been the case. Pension rights are calculated in the same way for men and women. It is, of course, on the career that we must act to bring about an impact in the pension system. However, several measures have a positive impact. These were analyzed by the Federal Planning Office and the Aging Review Committee. They consider that the reforms that have been undertaken over the past four years have positive consequences, especially for women's pensions - indeed, more than for men. I'm glad. Besides, I can give you the latest figures, which I have just received. The average monthly pension for the salaried worker increased between 2014 and 2017 by 6.03 per cent for men and 14.32 per cent for women. For the self-employed, during the same period, it increased by 5.73 per cent for men and by 24.59 per cent for women. These figures are indisputable, as they come from the Federal Pension Service, and show that, gradually, thanks to career improvements - which are still far from sufficient - women's pensions are now rising faster than men's.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer. It can be seen that this increase affects a relatively small proportion of women, while the situation of others stagnates or declines. Attacks and disruption of similar periods, targeting people with fragmented careers, pose a real danger to women. That is why it is important to reduce inequalities, particularly at the time of retirement. Moreover, in our time, separations are becoming more and more frequent. Women must therefore be given personal and independent purchasing power.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u43	The discussion is closed. Colleagues, these kinds of reports are usually closed by the vote of a motion. Three motions have been tabled (3270/2): - a first motion by Els Van Hoof, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Nele Lijnen and Wim Van der Donkt; - a second motion by Fabienne Winckel and Daniel Senesael; - a third motion, by Evita Willaert and Sarah Schlitz. Three motions were tabled (3270/2): - a first motion, by Els Van Hoof, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Nele Lijnen and Wim Van der Donckt; - a second motion, by Fabienne Winckel and Daniel Senesael; - a third motion, by Evita Willaert and Sarah Schlitz. You've been sent all three by electronic means, so I don't have to read them anymore. The vote on the motions will take place later. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u44	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Katja Gabriels, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to go back to the details of this bill, but this text aims at finalizing a fairly important structural reform. In early 2017, the Personnel and Organisation FPS and the services that depend on it were merged into a new Strategy and Support FPS, but the existing legislation still needed to be adapted to the integration of the Seror and the FED+ Service within the Directorate-General for Recruitment and Development of the FPS. That will be done with this bill. The minister confirmed it in committee. Such a reorganization will generate synergies. We look forward to it. In addition, the federated entities are currently represented on the Selor Management Committee. In this regard, the Minister indicated that he wished to introduce a different form of participation. He informed us that this could be guaranteed by allowing them to sit on the "clients" steering group created by Article 6 of the Royal Decree of 22 February 2017 establishing the Strategy and Support SPF. A royal decree will be made for this purpose, he explained to us in committee. This is a point to which we are particularly attentive, because we must ensure that the participation of the federated entities is guaranteed. Of course, we will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group will oppose this text. Without wanting to repeat the debate, I will explain to you the reason. The Selor is a separate management body where the federated entities are represented. The Council of State has been making it clear from the outset that this bill undermines their representation. In the meantime, there was no consultation with the federated entities during the examination of the law or even between the first and second readings of the law. It's not because I tried because I tried everything in committee to get it done. For my group, this approach is not worthy of federal loyalty to federated entities. That is why we will oppose this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u47	Mr President, I would like to confirm that what has been announced will also be implemented. There will be a royal decree in which the Länder will also be represented. In the meantime, there are also actions involving the Communities and the Regions in the organisation of the service. So there is no vacuum left. In this respect, the commitment is clear and confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u48	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u49	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3266/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3266/5) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u50	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u51	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u52	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u53	Minister, this project is part of the generalization of the supplementary pension. We have already exchanged several times here and in committee on this subject. Every time I remind you, on behalf of my group, of our commitment to a strong first pillar, the only one that guarantees solidarity among all workers. We are not against a second pillar of the pension and a generalisation of it. But this pillar bears its name: it must only be a complement. It must be used to improve the purchasing power of our pensioners. It cannot contribute to increasing inequalities in our society. In reality, unfortunately, that is what is happening. It is not I who say it, but the Court of Auditors, who said that supplementary pensions do not play their social role in our country. They are not socially just, they are more relevant to those who have a high wage and will therefore have a higher legal pension. At present, therefore, the second pillar is helping to increase inequalities between pensioners. I wanted to recall these elements before I entered the heart of the subject. Today, you offer this supplementary free pension for employees. A second pillar "bis", located at the crossroads between a classic second pillar and a third pillar. Indeed, it is linked to the professional activity – you reminded him in committee – but without the employer's contribution. By 2016, the academic council had torpedoed this measure by explaining that this supplementary free pension would only increase inequalities. For these experts, this is "the most risky decision the government has taken". Beyond this fundamental criticism, the leading experts on the subject say that the supplementary free pension would be a pretext for employers to no longer introduce a collective pension scheme. This risk is real. It was debated in committee. You replied that it was limited because the system had only a residual purpose, set a ceiling and provided for tax incentives for the employer introducing a second collective pillar. Indeed, these tax incentives remain. But I would be tempted to say that, despite this, for an SME owner, setting up a second collective pillar will have a cost, even if he wants to please his workers. And there are some who want to please their workers. This boss measures this cost and if an individual system exists, he will have less scruples not to do so. It's obvious. Therefore, there is a risk that this will hinder the generalization of the second collective pillar. It's really something you need to be careful about. Beyond that, we have another concern about employees – and as we have had with the self-employed – about their protection with regard to the products offered. The second pillar "bis" that you propose involves risks for workers. These are complicated, untransparent products, with sometimes high fees without a guarantee of yield. We will finally end up with two categories of employees: those who will be in a collective logic where performance is guaranteed and those who will be in the individual logic, without guarantee of performance. The Council of State has also asked to justify this difference in treatment. You answer this by saying that everyone is free to do what they want, but the reality is that these workers will find themselves alone facing the organizer in search of profitability. In this system, everything is ultimately supported by the worker alone. He himself must negotiate with the pension agency. And it is on his shoulders that costs and financial risks will rest. He is therefore in a position of weakness. In terms of guarantee, protection of workers, you announce a royal decree. It's part of the legal system. He's in preparation. It is essential that workers are properly informed and that transparency is ensured. They must be duly protected. But, once again, it is asking us to vote on your project without being able to dispose of this royal decree, which is crucial to us. It's like buying a cat in a bag. We have in vain asked for this order. He's in negotiations with FSMA. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u54	Vote it? We're going to vote for something anyway. You don't know how. I'll tell you at the end. Do you still have a doubt? Last but not least, Minister, your project provides for a new subsidized individual savings product, in addition to other opportunities that have an impact on public finances (life insurance, pension savings, in short the third pillar). This supplementary free pension has a cost. This does not seem to concern you, since you said in committee: "I am not asking myself how much it costs. What matters is what she's going to bring back to the workers." These are almost the words you used. And that's our priority too, but we need to be clear. When you say that the project will cost EUR 54 million in cruise speed, I fear that your government will ask you to go look for these 54 million in the other Pension envelopes, and thus to the detriment of the first pension pillar, the most solidary pillar. In conclusion, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have just developed several elements on this project. It does not generalize the second collective pillar, which we would have liked. It allows some workers, individually, to have a small second pillar bis, a complementary private quasi-saving. Finally, the real winners will be the financial institutions. For these reasons, we will vote against this proposal, if you still have a doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u55	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this Parliament, only two categories of workers could benefit from a supplementary pension: those whose employers had set up a second pillar and those who were self-employed. Since then, reforms implemented by Minister Bacquelaine and Minister Ducrame have complemented this mechanism. Thus today, the self-employed, both natural and legal, can form a supplementary free pension. For public service contractors, the government is committed to establishing a second pillar. For local government contractors, the government has put in place a financial incentive to support local governments wishing to join the system. There was, of course, a lack of response to employees who did not have access to the second pillar because their employer or sector of activity did not provide for a supplementary pension or only a supplementary pension of a low level. That is precisely the purpose of this bill. From now on, the possibility will be offered to these workers to gradually build up a pension supplement which would be financed by levies from the net wage. This is where all the difference lies with the third pillar, which is formed outside any professional framework. In addition, it should be recalled that the draft law is drafted taking into account the technical objections made by the Academic Pension Board. In practice, how will this happen? Nothing simpler! The worker informs his employer of his intention to set up a supplementary pension and chooses himself the pension organisation to which he wishes to subscribe. As explained, this is a bipartite contract in which the employer serves only as a mailbox. The worker decides on the share of his salary which he wishes to devote to it with a maximum of 1,600 euros per year or 3% of the annual gross remuneration taking into account the pension reserves which are already established during the reference period in the second pillar for employees. The worker will receive the same tax benefits as if he had paid personal contributions in an employer-organized pension commitment. Sigedis is currently working on the development of an application to calculate the maximum amount that can be paid under the employee's supplementary free pension. Can it be feared, as has been said by several colleagues, that this measure will no longer encourage employers to invest in the pensions of these workers? I don't think so. As the Minister has explained very well, the tax and para-fiscal benefits of a pension plan put in place by the employer or within the sector continue to be more attractive to both employers and workers. Fear is therefore, in my view, unfounded. On this point, it seems to me important to stress that the IPA, which is due to take place shortly for the period 2019-2020, should – and this is a wish already expressed by the Minister – devote part of its reflection to the development of supplementary pensions. Finally, I would point out that since these are voluntary personal contributions of the worker, the legal guarantee of performance does not apply here, unlike supplementary pensions organised by employers and sectors. The employer or the sector may not impose a pension agency or a pension product on the worker. It is the latter who has all the freedom of decision. The supplementary free plan system for employees is simple and easy to implement. In particular, it removes a barrier that existed for employees whose employers or sectors either have no supplementary pension or have introduced a supplementary pension of a low level. From now on, everyone will have access to it. I can only rejoice in this progress. It is obvious that my group and I will support this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u56	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, "A dangerous turn in pension policy" was the title of an opinion document of the entire Academic Council of Pensions in November 2016. That board of professors and pension experts, appointed by the government, was very clear. Let me quote again: 'This slope of individualisation is not only contrary to the real development of the second pillar. She's dangerous, too." Mr Minister, the Academic Council is therefore devastating for the second pillar of the individual pension that you are creating by means of this draft law. Moreover, the members of the Council expressed the same concern earlier in the policy letter of March 2016. Despite the repeated advice of the Academic Council, you ignore them and continue your ideas. Mr. Secretary, not only do you do that. When I asked the chairman of the committee, Mr Van Quickenborne, at the start of the discussion to hear the Academic Council, which should be our advisor when it comes to pensions, at a hearing on this draft, my proposal was voted on directly by the majority. So the Academic Council is good when it can be used. However, when the Council makes any criticism, it is simply ignored. For the sake of clarity, ladies and gentlemen, my group, too, is in favour of generalising the second pillar, but let us be clear on this, in addition to the first pillar, which is a legal solidarity first pillar. However, we are very strongly opposed to such individualisation. Individualisation greatly discourages the further development of the current collective second pillar. Minister, the second pillar is a collective pension pillar and not a subsidised individual savings formula. That is why we have the third pillar. That is exactly what you are doing with the second pillar. You turn it into an additional savings product, with all the risks involved. This risk is now borne solely by the individual employee. You voluntarily ask employees to give up part of their wages, to invest. The employee must start negotiations with the pension institution himself. He or she is therefore in a very weak position here. The contracts are often very technical, not very transparent and therefore difficult to understand. As there is no collective bargaining on this, weaker workers will suffer. If you do not believe that, even the banks have had a very difficult time investing in the past. Many banks have invested wrongly. And that's where the big specialists are. How could an individual employee be informed of all these products from which he can choose? The employer is only expected to withhold the amount reserved by the employee for the individual second pillar from the wage. How do you intend to use this draft law to encourage employers to install a second collective pillar, since they no longer have any obligation to do so? Every risk is passed on to the employee. There's more. There is no limitation on the financial products in which investment can be made. You say there will be, with a royal decision. However, the honourable Member has already said that this royal decision has not yet been taken. We wonder what it says. In fact, you should have given this royal decision along with this draft, in order to give some certainty to the employee. There is no limitation on the costs that pension institutions can charge. And there is no transparency at all. During the discussion, I asked you to review the Court of Auditors' report on the second pillar. If you go through this report, you will read that this is one of the points of criticism. There is a big difference in the institutions. One charge costs different from the other. We have held hearings on this in the past. Everyone agreed to that. There is no transparency in this. In the second pillar of collective action, a number of improvements can now be made. The individual employee will not be able to do so. Compared to the collective second pillar, this individual second pillar has no guaranteed return. The return on the investment depends on the result of the financial markets. And don't let them always be so stable. We know that with great certainty now. The day before yesterday, the ING Investment Barometer showed that the Belgian private investor is increasingly inclined to avoid the stock exchange, while you, Mr Minister, are pushing the ordinary employee towards that stock exchange. Encouraging individual investments is not part of a pension strategy. This says not only different colleagues from the opposition, but also the Academic Board of Pensions. Minister, you have always said that the legal pension will not be enough in the future. For a Minister of Pensions, this is a wrong starting point. The first legal pillar should be largely sufficient and the second pillar should only be complementary to the first pillar. That's your assignment as Minister of Pensions. What's your solution? You want to individualise the second pillar and you say that the people themselves should take care of their pensions. I'm going a little further than the colleague. This is not a second pillar bis, this is a cloaked third pillar. That is not the way in which you will remove people's concerns about their future pension. This is not a real reform of the second pillar. You're just turning it into an investment tool. I quote the Academic Council once again: 'People' and by that the Council means you and your government'starts to unravel the social contract, while we're' the Academic Council 'want to strengthen it precisely; individual risks and inequality will increase through this design'. The sectors which do not have a second collective pillar are often the worst paid professions. These are the weak sectors, such as textiles and cleaning, sectors with largely female workers. We have just had a major debate on gender equality in employment. This is yet another example of how this government treats women and jobs, as this will again be to the detriment of women employed in these weak sectors. This will also be to the detriment of young people, whose first employment is usually carried out in those weaker sectors. If it ends well, Minister, they will have a good pension in your individual second pillar. If it ends badly, which has happened many times, they will simply have less pension. How can we still be transparent in this? Especially, how will this communication be handled? Will you launch a clear communication or information campaign for young people and workers from all these sectors, in order to guide them in the various possibilities and products? Will you do that, Minister? I would like a very clear answer to this, otherwise it will remain a problem for these workers, with all the risks involved. Mr Daerden has already referred to it and I said it a few times at the committee meeting, as well as this afternoon: you clearly did not read the 2016 Court of Auditors' report properly. This report has shown very clearly that the second pillar is mainly there for those people who currently have a good wage, who therefore have a fairly good pension from the first pillar. With your individual second pillar, they may be able to supplement that first pillar. For the weak sectors which do not have a collective second pillar, only the high-wage workers, i.e. the executives, will be able to provide for the second, individual pillar. That means, in addition to a good pension, a good first pillar, they will have a good second pillar. The starting point of this draft should be widening, but that is not the case at all. The ordinary employee who earns 1 300 to 1 400 euros per month will not have any money left to deposit for his individual second pillar, with all the consequences for his pension. Mr Minister, who will ultimately benefit from this case? Again, the workers who already have a high wage, and also the banking institutions that will provide for this individual second pillar. This draft law is a missed opportunity to turn the second pillar into a generalised, collective, democratic second pillar, which does not place the worker at risk, but protects him with a guarantee of return, with a reduction in costs, with a reduction in financial products in which investment can be made without risk of loss and, importantly, consulted in social consultation. The goal you are aiming for will not be achieved. There will be no generalisation, no broadening for those who already have a small pension. There will only be a matthew effect: more pension for higher pensions. Only a general collective system is the best guarantee for the maintenance of purchasing power, in addition to the strong legal social first pillar. This is also possible, because this collective obligation has been imposed in the Netherlands. Minister, I think it is very clear that we will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u57	Mr President, I will not repeat what I have said in committee in a long and broad way, but I would like to point out why we will not support this draft. For us, the draft law means further individualisation of pension protection. We are talking about the second pillar, but it is actually, de facto, about the extension of the third pillar. Several colleagues have already mentioned that even the Academic Board of Pensions, the public pension reform committee, criticises it in its policy letter 1 of March 2016. The big winners are the insurers and the banks, who are going to walk with a lot of money on the hood of ordinary workers. We see this everywhere in private pensions and according to a study by the KULeuven, insurers are going to run with a lot of money, up to 20% of the premiums. Pensions for workers and the self-employed are now among the lowest in Europe. Instead of tackling this, the government is going to strengthen individual pensions. The introduction of the supplementary pension, the so-called second pillar, 15 years ago, made solemn promises about democratisation, solidarity and security. The second pillar was then sold. What do we see today? That democratisation has actually proved to be a great farce. More than half of the contributions go to only 5% of employees: CEOs, managers, executives who build millions of euros in supplementary pensions, with all the tax benefits of that, versus peanuts for ordinary workers. This promise of democratisation of this second pillar is not at all one in fact! Now solidarity is also in danger of disappearing, because the free supplementary pension allows workers to decide for themselves to launch a second pillar, while a pension is being built up by sector within the current second pillar, hence the literal term 'group insurance'. Finally, there is also a security problem. For current pensions, there is a guarantee of return. The Council of State's opinion of 5 October states that it is not going to be able to do so. To continue with the safety aspect, the employee will be held entirely responsible for his own pension building from the liberal dogma and will decide for himself which pension institution he will join. He will have to make a full assessment of the reliability and solvency of the pension institution. That is unreasonable, because the relationship of strength between an individual and a pension institution is much more asymmetric than that between an employer joining his staff and a pension institution. An employer can put more weight on the scale and make a better risk analysis himself, by involving lawyers, all the more so because in the event of a wrong outcome, the employer has a certain guarantee of return against the employee. Now the employee himself will be fully liable and will no longer have a guarantee of return. That's irresponsible. Too much risk is placed on the individual. For these reasons, we do not think this draft law is a good idea. It would be a good thing for the government to strengthen the legal pension, because it offers the best guarantee of solidarity, security and democratic control. Now we are doing the opposite and we are even funding further individualisation, by making it tax-friendly, while on the other hand we are shouting out that statutory pensions are priceless. This is a purely ideological measure, which will further undermine statutory pensions. That's why the PVDA will vote against.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u58	If no other Members ask to speak, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u59	Mr President, I am not going to be very long because we have had enough debate in the Committee on Social Affairs. I am also referring today to Mrs Galant's excellent speech, which made clear the scope of this new benefit for workers. I understand that, for some, any personal and individual involvement in the creation of pension rights is considered to be something very toxic. It is the usual caesure between those who consider that it is up to them to decide what individuals can do and those who consider that it is rather for individuals themselves to make this choice. My view is that, very fundamentally, we offer the person the ability to choose as part of their pension. We give him freedom of choice. We allow him to seize an opportunity. That sounds pretty positive to me. Moreover, I note that no one raised this kind of argument when we extended the supplementary pension to all self-employed individuals. Here too, the approach to the constitution of this second pillar is individual. I think it is necessary to stop insulting salaried workers who would not have the same capacity as the self-employed to embark on a second individual pillar. For me, all workers have this capacity and must in any case benefit from this freedom and opportunity. Let me also stress that this is indeed a second pillar and not a third pillar, Mrs Temmerman. The fundamental difference between the VAPW and the third pillar is that the VAPW is linked to the professional activity, which is not the case for the third pillar. So here we are talking about a second pillar. This system is wasteful, in the sense that - when the company decides to install a second collective pillar at a maximum of 3% of the wage bill - the second free pillar is automatically extinguished. Priority is obviously given to the scheme organised by the employer. However, we realized - and we could not remain silent on this - that several workers were not lucky enough to be able to benefit from a second pillar in their company or that the one they had proved to be very inadequate. For these, a solution had to be found. That is the purpose of the system put in place. Mrs Temmerman, again, we have taken into account the comments made by the Academic Council in this field. Initially, he had expressed himself in favour of a second pillar of a supplementary free pension for employed persons, without any limitations or precautions. We then stated that this second pillar was waste and included a maximum of 3% of the payroll. In addition, we have taken into account the second pillars already in force, deducing from the possibilities of establishing the second free pillar. In this way, I consider that we have achieved a system that makes it possible to generalise the second pillar. This is therefore a significant step forward. For my part, I do not oppose, as some seem to do, the first pillar in the second. This is obviously a fundamental mistake: they cannot be opposed. Indeed, the second is complementary to the first, which we strengthen. We are among the European countries in which the first pillar generates an annual pension increase. In many others, however, I would point out to you - in case you do not know - that pensions have decreased, when they have not been frozen. This is not the case with us, on the contrary. I mentioned earlier the significant figures of the average increase in pensions between 2014 and 2017. Of course, if we are to achieve a higher replacement rate - and that is our objective - we must combine the second pillar and ensure that, regardless of their status, all workers have access to it. That's what we're working on. We generalize and democratize the second pillar to ensure that the replacement rate increases and that every worker can benefit from a pension with a standard of living that is more in line with what he had when he was working. That is the philosophy behind this project. I think this is an opportunity for workers who, so far, have not had this opportunity to form a second pillar.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u60	Minister, we are not going to repeat the debate. I will respond to the first part of your speech. Far be it from me to think that individual involvement is toxic. Far from me, but I think we need to be aware of the realities. It's not a problem of choice for many people. It's a problem of choice. They do not have the capacity to take part of their monthly remuneration to feed a second pillar bis or a third pillar. We can sneeze on the terms. This is in any case a pillar where the employer does not contribute. It is therefore an individual choice but also a purely personal contribution. The problem is that many do not have the capacity for this personal contribution. I am not referring to last night's debate or to the testimony of a whole series of people who are unable to close the end of the month. If they do not have the capacity, they will not spend x euros on a second pillar bis. The problem is that we try to promote this with public money, because there are advantages. The problem isn't that they're saving. People who have the ability to save for their pension should be suggested to do so. But some do not have the capacity to do so and it is unfair for those who can do so to be helped. My fear, as I explained earlier in the gallery, is that it will be done at the expense of the first pillar. You mention that the first pillar increases thanks to the well-being envelope, in any case in the minima. Recognize that our first pillar remains low relative to neighbouring countries. We affirm that all effort must be concentrated on the first pillar, without creating purely individualistic complementary products.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u61	Mr President, I would like to comment on three points. I fully agree with what Mr Daerden said. So I will drop that point. Furthermore, you insist that this is the second pillar, because the measure relates to employment and through the employer. But it might as well be said that it is a third pillar bis, with payments being made directly by the employer. It remains an investment product with tax advantages, as is the case with the third pillar. Instead of bringing it to the bank itself, the employee instructs his employer to send the contributions to the bank. So it's still an investment product. As the Academic Council said, this is not a pension policy. Individual investment cannot be a good pension policy. There is also the difference with the self-employed. If you've read the Academic Council report, you know there's a big difference. The Academic Council says that such a policy is normal for self-employed persons, who have a completely different statute. They also have no joint employer and are not in a particular sector. It is therefore normal that they should be given this opportunity. It is strange that you do not think it is unfair that the self-employed should not have access to the normal collective second pillar. You don't seem to have a problem with that. You only think it is a problem that the self-employed can count on an individual second pillar and not the employee. Minister, sometimes we have to learn something from history. I mentioned this earlier, but perhaps you should listen to me now. The ASLK was founded in 1862. The ASLK was partly created to organise individual pension savings for the employee, your individual second pillar. After a number of years, however, it has been seen that this did not work at all. That did not work for the same reason Mr Daerden just mentioned. Those who had actually had to save to be able to retire later did not have the money to do so. That is why, after the Second World War, collective social security, the first pillar, and later also the second pillar of collective social security, were adopted in order to guarantee the security of pensions for the weaker low-wage workers. You're not listening again. I would advise you to look again at the ASLK report, at the reason why people have moved from individual pension savings to collective. You're making the same mistake. That is a pity, because it could have been a completely different proposal, which could have led to a widening and deepening of the second pillar of collective action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u62	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u63	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3356/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3356/4) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in The title in French has been amended by the committee in draft law establishing a supplementary free pension for employed persons and laying down various provisions on supplementary pensions". The draft law contains 52 articles. The bill has 52 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u64	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u65	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Nahima Lanjri, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u66	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are considering today deals with a variety of matters that are always in the interest of greater legal certainty, greater readability and greater efficiency. I will not go back to the measures that have been taken. However, I should like once again to welcome the progress made in the area of adoption and foster family leave for wage-earners, but also for self-employed workers. So far, there was no recognition for self-employed adopters. It's now done. I would also like to speak about Amendments Nos 15 to 31 on the Act of 6 September 2018 to strengthen adoption leave and introduce foster leave. This law is due to enter into force on 1 January this year. These amendments rewrite the original text which, according to the competent administration, could present certain imperfections and thus concerns regarding the practicality of the measure. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the time limit for applying for foster leave is two to twelve months. We can really talk about progress, ladies and gentlemen, because for all these families, this is an important recognition that is, at last, valued. Our group will, of course, support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u67	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u68	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3355/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3355/4) The draft law has 99 articles. The bill has 99 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u69	In Article 69, Articles 1 to 15 and 15/1 to 15/4 are adopted per article.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u70	Rule 69 is adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u71	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at the next the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u72	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Eric Thiébaut, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u73	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in committee, Minister Jambon quickly introduced this bill as a simple technical measure to transpose a European directive. But that's not the case! The bill raises a political question. How will the State have to proceed in the future if it wishes to take a new decision to extend a nuclear power plant? Should he consult the public? Will it be required to conduct an environmental impact assessment? Should it allow neighbouring States to take part in this procedure? Today, the government answers 'no' to these three questions. This is a political decision which my group considers totally inappropriate. Colleagues, the controversy had already taken place during the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2 and in the debate we criticized the government for not having planned an environmental impact assessment or public consultation. But it wasn't just a matter of common sense. It was also a legal obligation: to conduct a public inquiry under the Aarhus Convention; to allow neighbouring States to participate in the procedure is a consequence of the Espoo Convention; and to carry out an environmental impact assessment with the organization of a public inquiry is an international obligation. Moreover, the Council of State had given very clear opinions on this subject during the extension of Doel 1 and 2. This has not been done and the government has therefore submitted itself to appeals: an action for annulment of the law of 28 January 2015 was brought in January 2016 by two ASBLs, Inter-Environnement Wallonie (IEW) and Bond Beer Leefmilieu Vlaanderen (BBL). This action is still pending at the level of the Constitutional Court and has gone back to the Court of Justice of the European Union with a question for a preliminary ruling. Minister, we are in a competitive environment, with legal proceedings. In these circumstances, the legislative power should be neutral in relation to the ongoing dispute. Unfortunately, this is not the case and your project not only contains the reaffirmation of the government's thesis in the ongoing litigation – no need for impact investigation or public consultation for Doel 1 and Doel 2 – but also – and this is worse – a mechanism that will allow the government to persist in the assumption that it is losing justice. In the future, therefore, regardless of the court's decision, an extension decision may be accompanied by a simple screening note, much less binding than an impact investigation with public consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, the future of nuclear power must be a societal debate. Collectives of citizens, but also individual people, demand it. I am not even talking about the German Länder that are worried about the state of our power stations. The successive disappointments of Doel 1 and Doel 2 show that an analysis before restarting makes sense. Unfortunately, with this bill, it will be the opposite. Everything works as if the government was behind the scenes preparing for the extension of other nuclear power plants. Everything works as if the government sent a nose to the Court of Justice, whose decision it anticipates will not be favourable to it. It is not respectful of the people; it is not the direction we want to take. That is why we have re-tabled amendments and, if they are not approved, we will obviously oppose your bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u74	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft bill will shortly be voted on. We shall vote against it, as you have already heard in committee. This bill would make it possible to extend the life of our old, written off, unreliable and kaduke nuclear power plants without an environmental impact report and without public research. In this way, Minister, you interpret the European directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. As Mr Thiébaut has just said, everything is about the definition of 'project'. So you don't think this is a project. In any case, the extension of the life of a nuclear power plant involves considerable investment, which we have noticed, and one cannot rule out at all the possibility that there would be no project as described in the European directive. In our view, it is not possible to assess the environmental risks associated with the extension of life, once again, ladies and gentlemen, given the appalling state in which they are located. It is also a legal obligation arising from the Aarhus Convention and the Espoo Convention, which we have both signed. Mr Minister, we do not really need to have this debate, because there can be no extension of the life of nuclear power plants. After all, the entire government has been included here in the Energy Pact and this has been confirmed once again that the core exit will take place in 2025. So I do not understand why that particular passage should be included in the present draft law. The life of nuclear power plants will not be extended, it will not be necessary, it is only if, if, if... Well, then we ask for an environmental impact report, but you refuse. Why do you refuse? Is it because the N-VA, as in the case of the migration pact earlier, will vote in favour of the extension of nuclear power stations just before the final reading? Minister, the European Court of Justice has not yet given its ruling, so it seems premature for us to vote on the draft before us. What will you do if we hope that the ruling will be against you? Will the text be reworded? At least we have no certainty about that, so it would be better to wait for that ruling. In order to remove all doubts and misunderstandings, perhaps there are good intentions, we have once again tabled our amendment, which clearly defines the concept of 'project'. If we want to extend the life of nuclear power plants, this will be covered by 'projects' and an environmental impact report will be necessary anyway. Since we are not going to extend the life of nuclear power stations, there is no harm in approving our amendment, and your draft law alone is not superfluous in this respect, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u75	Mrs Temmerman, Mr Wollants is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u76	Mrs Temmerman, I am almost convinced that you have a fairly good view of my party's position. You do not usually leave it to the committee to point that out, but I would also like to point out, of course, that these nuclear power plants do not run without environmental impact reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u77	Yeah, I know that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u78	You are well aware that an environmental impact report is being prepared for the target nuclear power plant in connection with the spent fuel storage. You know that, and you could say that that report is only about that and not about the entire nuclear power plant. I could follow you in that, but at the same time we have to note that a full environmental impact report was produced in 2010 for the four units in Doel. All environmental effects have been assessed. Do you know what the decision was on that environmental impact report? Do you know that environmental impact report? It states what the problem is with the target nuclear power plant. I quote: 'In summary, noise emissions at the level of the protected natural area adjacent to the nuclear power station are the most critical'. These were the most serious environmental impacts that have been identified. You will undoubtedly repeat that there was no extension of Objectives 1 and 2. However, I must contradict you in that regard. The environmental impact report, as it was presented at the time, was carried out and approved, and had a short political framework, which included the extension of Objectives 1 and 2. This extension is set out in the report as a prerequisite, within which the environmental impacts were carried out. The report was approved by the FANC. It was also approved and signed by LNE by the head of that service, a certain Paul Van Snick, whom you undoubtedly know better as the former director of Bruno Tobback's policy cell. All the effects have been viewed. The environmental report has been carried out. There's no reason to do that work again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u79	Mr President, I am surprised by my colleague's speech! If everything is all right, why don't we do a classic environmental impact study to reassure everyone? It'll take a month and we won't talk about it anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u80	You're just proving what we're saying, Mr. Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u81	If you don't do it, you throw away the discredit and scare people. We don't do impact studies, we don't do public investigations, we don't associate neighbouring countries; it's weird! If there was never an incident, if there was never a breakdown, if everything worked well, we wouldn't have a problem. But the incidents are legion, we have old power stations and you tell us that we don't need to do an impact study. This is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u82	I'd like to respond. Mr Thiébaut says that earlier, eight years ago, a full environmental impact report was produced with a public consultation, with the opportunity for other countries to intervene. It's been approved. No environmental effects have been identified. If so, just do it again. With all due respect, that's not a meaningful use of time. All these investigations have happened. Everyone has had the opportunity to intervene in this. You say now: let's just do it again. There's no point. We're not going on that slope.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u83	Mr Wollants, you're just right. You say there is no problem, so let us make an environmental impact report. There was a report in the past that lasted until the closure. Now you're going to extend that. Mr Wollants, that's like an environmental impact report in another company. If one prolongs there, then one has to make an environmental impact report again anyway. This certainly applies to the largest categories. Mr Wollants, if there is no problem, as you claim, our power stations fall out every month, there are still two out of seven working, so there is a problem, people are very worried why should this be in this report? Why should it be said here that there should be no explicit environmental impact assessment in the event of an extension of the power plants, which we require for all kinds of other companies asking for an extension of a building permit or an environmental permit? For nuclear power stations, to which there are so many more dangers, you are not going to ask. The logic is completely lost there. Your group leader just said: you should listen to the people more. In this respect, you should certainly listen more to the people. The people are very concerned about our nuclear power stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u84	Mrs Temmerman, I just want you to listen to me, because you have not listened to what I have just said. I said that the environmental impact report has already taken account of this extension. Reference is made to the law on the core exit as a political precondition and it is said: "With regard to this extinction scenario, the Belgian Government recently stated in a decision in principle that the duration of operation of these nuclear reactors can be extended for a further ten years". That's the basis of that report. There is no reference to a final period because this extension has already been taken into account here. So all these effects have already been investigated. The fact that these nuclear power stations need to be shut down just proves that the safety measures are working well. I would be much more concerned if those nuclear power stations were not shut down in those cases. But if you don't want to hear... you want a new environmental impact report anyway. The same investigations, everything has to be repeated, while it has been made quite clear here that this is not really necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u85	That's research from the past, anyway. Certainly, as far as the safety of nuclear power stations is concerned, there is not enough research to be done, especially if one again decides in the future to extend their lifespan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u86	Mr President, Minister, I will be relatively brief because the debate has already taken place. When you came with this draft in committee, it was thought to be a technical project since it was a question of transposing a directive amending another directive. But when the documents were read, it was realized that this was a more political project because it was about environmental issues and an environmental impact study. Things aren't clear. Minister, even if you have responded, the opinion of the Council of State raises doubts as to the need for an environmental impact study. As long as to do – if I can afford the expression – let's be very transparent. There is no doubt about the systems that work. In addition, the possible extension of power plants would require an environmental impact study. Now, with the text before us today, you are instilling doubt in the minds of the citizens. I recall that we are bound by two conventions, the Espoo Convention and the Aarhus Convention, which apply to our right. We believe that we must submit to these conventions and go further in these necessary studies. I would also point out that an appeal is pending before the Constitutional Court with a question for a preliminary ruling. Let us not anticipate the results of the latter. In my view, the precautionary principle would require a full study with a public inquiry. If there is no problem, the study that is being asked will be of no concern and you will be able to continue in the direction you have chosen. With the position taken, we put the plow before the ox, if you'll allow me to express it. Indeed, we should have waited until things were in order. Mr Minister, we have tabled amendments in committee. As a precaution, I repeat the amendment I tabled in plenary. If it is adopted, we will adopt your text. But if he isn't, we won't support him.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a debate that we have already had in committee. I would like to repeat this briefly. With this bill, we are faithfully transposing the EU EIA Directive. The explanatory memorandum clarifies the existing and authoritative case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union in this respect. Mrs Temmerman rightly said that the discussion here is about the definition of the word 'project'. We believe that we are giving the correct interpretation of that word. If the Court of Justice were to change the concept of a project in the future, it is obvious that we will follow it and adapt to it, but at the moment we do not think it is necessary. We are therefore presenting the text as a literal transposition of the European directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u88	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u89	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3335/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3335/4) The draft law has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u90	Art. 6 • 5 years old Karin Temmerman cs (3335/5) • 6 – Eric Thiébaut (3335/5) • 8 – Michel de Lamotte (3335/5) • 7 • Eric Thiébaut (3335/5) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u91	Held: the vote on the amendments, Articles 27/3 and 27/4 in Article 6 and Article 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u92	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 5, Articles 27/5 to 27/10 in Article 6 and Articles 7 to 9.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u93	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u94	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Philippe Blanchart. The Committee on External Relations proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (3010/3) The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (3010/3) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u96	Mr President, I just want to say a word. Perhaps my colleagues have had a moment of error in committee. On the occasion of the discussion of this motion for a resolution in plenary, I give them a chance to change their mind on a very important subject: the human rights situation in Colombia. I have no doubt that they will analyse this text with the utmost attention and that, if necessary, they will see their vote again, which I think was just an expression of a moment of error in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u97	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u98	The next item is the vote on the appointment of the alternates of the chairman of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision, of the alternates of the members of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision and of the alternates of a French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on Security and Intelligence. The next item is the election for the appointment of the alternates of the Chair of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services, the alternates of the members of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services and the alternates of a Francophone member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. On 8 October 2018, Mr Frank Schuermans withdrew his candidacy for the mandate of first Deputy Chairman of the Standing Committee P and for the mandate of first alternate of a Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee P. On 8 October 2018, Mr.Frank Schuermans withdrew his candidacy for the term of first Deputy Chair of Standing Committee P and for the term of first Alternate of a Dutch-speaking member of Standing Committee P. On 12 October 2018, Ms Régine Claeys and Mr Thibaut Vandamme withdrew their applications for the mandates of first or second alternate member of the Standing Committee P. On October 12, 2018, Ms. Régine Claeys and Mr. Thibaut Vandamme withdrew their nominations for first or second alternate members of the Standing Committee P. On 5 and 12 November 2018, all other candidates were heard by the Special Committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the Standing Committee P and of the Standing Committee I. Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Mr David Clarinval reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 14 November 2018. On 5 and 12 November 2018, the Special Committee for Parliamentary Support of the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee R conducted the hearing of all the other candidates. Laurette Onkelinx and David Clarinval reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 14 November 2018. The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed (3370/1). The document bearing the names of the candidates has been circulated to you (3370/1). For the Standing Committee on Police Supervision, we must appoint: the President's first alternate; the second alternate member of the Chairperson; a first alternate and a second alternate to Mr Herman Daens; a first alternate and a second alternate to Mr Jack Vissers; a first alternate and a second alternate for the Vice-President (Mr Guy Cumps) and a first alternate and a second alternate to Mr Antonio Caci. For the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services we must make the appointment: the first alternate of the President; the second alternate of the President; a first alternate and a second alternate for Mr Herman Daens; a first alternate and a second alternate for Mr Jack Vissers; a first alternate and a second alternate to the Vice-President (Mr Guy Cumps) and a first alternate and a second alternate of Mr Antonio Caci. We shall begin with the appointment of the first alternate of the President and the first alternate of the French-speaking Vice-President. We begin with the appointment of the first alternate of the President and the first alternate of the French-speaking Vice-President. The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secrecy of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus will be done Pas d'observation? That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u99	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u100	In the last distributed agenda you will find the bill (Mrs Meryame Kitrir) extending the allowance and duration of leave for medical assistance to heavily dependent family members, No. 3359/1, for which consideration was requested. You have taken note of the draft law (Ms. Meryame Kitir) which has been distributed to you on the agenda, which increases the allowance and duration of medical assistance leave to a member of the household or family in a situation of great dependence, No. 3359/1, the consideration of which is requested. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this proposal shall be sent to the committee responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account and refer the proposal back to the committee responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 November 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mr Philippe Goffin cs) amending the basic law on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, No. 3380/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u101	- the proposal for a special law (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) amending the special law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions with regard to retirement allowances, No. 3383/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u102	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and Mr Alain Top and Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez) to instruct the Court of Auditors to examine the budgetary implications of the replacement of the F-16 fighter aircraft, No. 3384/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u103	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne cs) on the signing by Belgium of the Global Pact for safe, orderly and regular migration, No. 3385/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Benoit Hellings, Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mrs Sarah Schlitz) calling on the Federal Government to support without reservation the Global Compact for Migration, No. 3386/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u104	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 November 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Mr Philippe Goffin et al.) amending the Law of Principles on Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners, No. 3380/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u105	- the proposal for a special law (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) amending the special law on institutional reforms of 8 August 1980 with regard to exit allowances, No 3383/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u106	- the motion for a resolution (MM. Dirk Van der Maelen and Alain Top and Ms Julie Fernandez Fernandez) to entrust the Court of Auditors with an inquiry into the budgetary implications of the replacement of F-16 combat aircraft, No 3384/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u107	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne et al.) on the signing by Belgium of the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration, No. 3385/1; - the motion for a resolution (MM. Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings, Kristof Calvo and Georges Gilkinet and Meyrem Almaci and Sarah Schlitz) calling on the government to fully support the Global Pact on Migration, No. 3386/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u108	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u109	Mr President, I would ask for urgent consideration in committee of Bill No. 3383.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u110	Mr President, I would ask for urgent consideration in committee of Bill No. 3380, tabled by Mr. Philippe Goffin, concerning the law of principles concerning prison administration and the legal status of prisoners. The application is based on the fact that the Royal Decree must enter into force by 1 January 2019 at the latest. This is a proposal put forward by all democratic groups. I therefore believe that the urgency will not be a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u111	We shall first vote on the urgent motion for a resolution on Mr Philippe Goffin's bill amending the basic law on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, No. 3380/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u112	We are now voting on the urgent motion for a resolution on the proposal for a special law by Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse amending the special law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions as regards retirement allowances. 3383/1. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u113	Mr Van der Maelen called for the urgency of the proposal for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Maelen and Mr Top and Mrs Fernandez Fernandez in order to instruct the Court of Auditors to examine the budgetary implications of the replacement of the F-16 fighter aircraft, No. 3384/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u114	Mr President, the replacement of the F-16 leads to the most expensive public purchase of the first half of this century. In all other countries, experience has shown that the signed contract must be handled with particular care and that there are very large overruns of contractually agreed prices. In other countries, such as the United States, Canada and the Netherlands, the Court of Auditors was involved in the whole order procedure from the start of the procedure. That is why our group is asking that, as has happened in those other countries, we should now call on the Court of Auditors to read everything very carefully. The company with which we are going has the reputation of exceeding the proposed prices, which are not contractually set sufficiently carefully. It is therefore a good thing that a neutral body, such as the Court of Auditors, should be involved at this stage of the procedure. We are asking for urgent consideration of our resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u115	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u116	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 20 September 2018, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 26 September 2018 for the mandates of member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Office. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 20 September 2018, an appeal to the candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 26 September 2018 for the terms of office of a member of the Central Prison Supervisory Board. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 24 (1) of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, the Central Supervisory Board consists of twelve effective (6 N + 6 F) and twelve alternates (6 N + 6 F) members. In accordance with article 24, paragraph 1, of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 on the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners, the Central Supervisory Board is composed of 12 effective members (6 F + 6 N) and 12 alternate members (6 F + 6 N). The Central Supervisory Board shall have among its effective and alternate members at least: - two Dutch speakers and two French speakers who hold a Master's degree in Law, including at least one Dutch-speaking and one French-speaking magistrate of the seat; - one Dutch-speaking doctor and one French-speaking doctor. The Central Supervisory Board shall include among its actual members and its alternate members at least: - two French-speaking and two Dutch-speaking nationals who hold a Master's degree in law, including at least one French-speaking and one Dutch-speaking magistrate; - a French-speaking doctor and a Dutch-speaking doctor. The Chamber of Representatives should appoint an office among the effective members, consisting of two Dutch-speaking and two French-speaking members, of which at least one member holds a Master's degree in Law per language role. The House of Representatives must appoint from among the actual members an office, composed of two French-speaking members and two Dutch-speaking members, of which at least one member per linguistic role holds a master's degree in law. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: Effective members
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u117	Mr Patrick Charlier (F), Director at UNIA - Catherine De Bruecker (F), Federal Ombudsman - Mr Claude Debrulle (F), Member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners - Mr Florent De Mond (N), First Honorary Advocate General at the Antwerp Appeal Court - Mr Raf Gerits (N), Deputy Labour Auditor at the auditorate in Antwerp Mrs Sarah Grandfils (F), Commissioner at the Committee on the Supervision of the Prisons of Prince and Berkendael - Mr Francis Lefebvre (F), attaché to the Service of Criminal Justice Mrs Olivia Nederlandt (F), researcher F.R.S. FNRS in penitentiary law at the Université Saint-Louis de Bruxelles - Ms Greet Smaers (N), Member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners Mr Marc Tysebaert (N), former Legal and Fundamental Rights Adviser to the Justice Department - Mr Tony Van Parys (N), honorary attorney, member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners T evens magistrate of the seat - Mr Marc Allegaert (N), Vice-President and investigating judge in the West Flanders Court of First Instance - Mr Henri Debucquoy (N), Honorary President of the Court of Appeal in Ghent - Mr Walter Thiery (N), Judge at the Dutch Court of First Instance in Brussels
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u118	- Mr Jan Decock (N) - Mr Yves de Locht (F) - Mr Marc Vanderveken (F) - Mr Norbert Verleyen (N) - Mr Tony Vermeulen (N)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u119	- Mr David Baele (N), Head of Mission of the Administrative Simplification Office set up by the FPS Kanselarij - Mr Ralf Bas (N), Pedagogical Director of the Community Institution Mrs Arlette Donnay (F), former external expert CAPEAS - Mrs Isabelle Etienne (F), coordinator of the Brussels Justice Welfare Services - Brigitte Feys (F), partner manager at IF...Management - by Heer Lode Goukens (N), expert in the Commission on publishing aid, van de Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles - Mr Michel Gustot (F), Administrator Alphacom NV, Commissioner at the Nivelles Prison Monitoring Commission - Mr Alain Harford (F), Member of the non-profit organisation of the Houses of Maisons - Mr Pieter Houbey (N), supervisor in the Community institution of the German Demoaatic Republic in Mol - Mrs Vinciane Saliez (F), Director of the I.Care Association Actual members
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u120	- Mr. Patrick Charlier (F), Director of UNIA - Ms. Catherine De Bruecker (F), Federal Mediator - Mr. Claude Debrulle (F), member of the Central Prison Supervision Board - Mr. Florent De Mond (N), first Honorary Advocate General at the Antwerp Court of Appeal - Mr. Raf Gerits (N), Deputy Labour Auditor at the Antwerp Auditorate - Ms. Sarah Grandfils (F), Commissioner of the Prison Supervision Commission of Forest and Berkendael - Mr. Francis Lefebvre (F), attached to the grace service of the FPS Justice - Ms. Olivia Nederlandt (F), aspirant F.R.S. – FNRS in Prison Law at Saint-Louis University in Brussels - Ms. Greet Smaers (N), member of the Central Prison Supervision Board - Mr. Marc Tysebaert (N), former General Adviser on Legislation and Fundamental Rights to the FPS Justice - Mr. Tony Van Parys (N), Honorary Advocate, Member of the Central Prison Supervision Board
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u121	- Mr. Marc Allegaert (N), Vice-President and Investigative Judge of the Court of First Instance of West Flanders - Mr. Henri Debucquoy (N), First Honorary President of the Ghent Court of Appeal - Mr. Walter Thiery (N), Judge of the Dutch-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u122	- M. Jan Decock (N) - Mr. Yves de Locht (F) - Mr Marc Vanderveken (F) - Mr Norbert Verleyen (N) - M. Tony Vermeulen (N)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u123	- Mr. David Baele (N), Head of Mission to the FPS Administrative Simplification Service Chancellery - Mr. Ralf Bas (N), Head of Education at the Community Institution, Grubbe, Everberg - Ms. Arlette Donnay (F), former external expert CAPEAS - Ms Isabelle Etienne (F), Coordinator of Services for Justiciables (Common Community Commission Brussels-Capital) - Mme Brigitte Feys (F), partner-manager chez IF...Management - Mr Lode Goukens (N), expert to the Commission on the publication of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation - Mr. Michel Gustot (F), Director Alphacom SA, Commissioner of the Nivelles Prison Supervisory Commission - Mr Alain Harford (F), member of the Asbl De Huizen – The Houses - Mr. Pieter Houbey (N), accompanist at the Community Institution, from Kempen to Mol - Ms. Vinciane Saliez (F), Director of I.Care Deputy Members
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u124	Mr Patrick Charlier (F), Director at UNIA - Mr Raf Gerits (N), Deputy Labour Auditor at the auditorate in Antwerp - Mr Tony Van Parys (N), honorary attorney, member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u125	- Mr Henri Debucquoy (N), Honorary President of the Court of Appeal in Ghent
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u126	- Mr Jan Decock (N) - Mr Yves de Locht (F) - Mr Norbert Verleyen (N) - Mr Tony Vermeulen (N)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u127	- Mr David Baele (N), Head of Mission of the Administrative Simplification Office set up by the FPS Kanselarij - Mr Ralf Bas (N), Pedagogical Director of the Community Institution Mrs Arlette Donnay (F), former external expert CAPEAS - Mrs Isabelle Etienne (F), coordinator of the Brussels Justice Welfare Services - Brigitte Feys (F), partner manager at IF...Management - by Heer Lode Goukens (N), expert in the Commission on publishing aid, van de Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles - Mr Michel Gustot (F), Administrator Alphacom NV, Commissioner at the Nivelles Prison Monitoring Commission - Mr Pieter Houbey (N), supervisor in the Community institution of the German Demoaatic Republic in Mol - Mrs Vinciane Saliez (F), Director of the I.Care Association Alternate members
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u128	- Mr. Patrick Charlier (F), Director of UNIA - Mr. Raf Gerits (N), Deputy Labour Auditor at the Antwerp Auditorate - Mr. Tony Van Parys (N), Honorary Advocate, Member of the Central Prison Supervision Board
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u129	- Mr. Henri Debucquoy (N), First Honorary President of the Ghent Court of Appeal
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u130	- M. Jan Decock (N) - Mr. Yves de Locht (F) - Mr Norbert Verleyen (N) - M. Tony Vermeulen (N)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u131	- Mr. David Baele (N), Head of Mission to the FPS Administrative Simplification Service Chancellery - Mr. Raf Bas (N), Head of Education at the Community Institution, Grubbe, Everberg - Ms. Arlette Donnay (F), former external expert CAPEAS - Ms Isabelle Etienne (F), Coordinator of Services for Justiciables (Common Community Commission Brussels-Capital) - Mme Brigitte Feys (F), partner-manager chez IF...Management - Mr Lode Goukens (N), expert to the Commission on the publication of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation - Mr. Michel Gustot (F), Director Alphacom SA, Commissioner of the Nivelles Prison Supervisory Commission - Mr. Pieter Houbey (N), accompanist at the Community Institution, from Kempen to Mol - Ms. Vinciane Saliez (F), Director of I.Care Bureau members - Mr Marc Allegaert (N), Vice-President and investigating judge in the West Flanders Court of First Instance - Ms Valérie Arickx (N), lawyer at the Department of Legal Support for the Penitentiary Administration of the FPS Justice - Mr Ralf Bas (N), Pedagogical Director of the Community Institution - Catherine De Bruecker (F), Federal Ombudsman - Mr Jan Decock (N), physician - Mr Yves de Locht (F), physician - Mr Florent De Mond (N), First Honorary Advocate General at the Antwerp Appeal Court Mr Bart De Temmerman (N), Counsellor at the Brussels Appeals Court - Mr Vincent Eechaudt (N), Professor of Penology and Penitentiary Law at the VUB - Mrs Isabelle Etienne (F), coordinator of the Brussels Justice Welfare Services - Mr Raf Gerits (N), Deputy Labour Auditor at the auditorate in Antwerp - by Heer Lode Goukens (N), expert in the Commission on publishing aid, van de Fédération Wallonie-Bruxelles Mrs Sarah Grandfils (F), Commissioner at the Committee on the Supervision of the Prisons of Prince and Berkendael - Mr Michel Gustot (F), Administrator Alphacom NV, Commissioner at the Nivelles Prison Monitoring Commission - Mr Alain Harford (F), Member of the non-profit organisation of the Houses of Maisons - Mr Pieter Houbey (N), supervisor in the Community institution of the German Demoaatic Republic in Mol - Ms Marie Jadoul (F), Assistant Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure at the UCL - Mr Francis Lefebvre (F), attaché to the Service of Criminal Justice - Mr Marc Nève (F), lawyer - Mr Norbert Verleyen (N), physician - Mr Tony Vermeulen (N), physician Members of the Bureau - Mr. Marc Allegaert (N), Vice-President and Investigative Judge of the Court of First Instance of West Flanders - Ms. Valérie Arickx (N), Legal Officer of the Directorate of Legal Assistance of the Prison Administration of the SPF Justice - Mr. Ralf Bas (N), Head of Education at the Community Institution, Grubbe, Everberg - Ms. Catherine De Bruecker (F), Federal Mediator - M. Jan Decock (N), médecin - Mr. Yves de Locht (F), doctor - Mr. Florent De Mond (N), first Honorary Advocate General at the Antwerp Court of Appeal - Mr. Bart De Temmerman (N), Counsellor at the Brussels Court of Appeal - Mr. Vincent Eechaudt (N), Lecturer in Penology and Prison Law at the VUB - Ms Isabelle Etienne (F), Coordinator of Services for Justiciables (Common Community Commission Brussels-Capital) - Mr. Raf Gerits (N), Deputy Labour Auditor at the Antwerp Auditorate - Mr Lode Goukens (N), expert to the Commission on the publication of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation - Ms. Sarah Grandfils (F), Commissioner of the Prison Supervision Commission of Forest and Berkendael - Mr. Michel Gustot (F), Director Alphacom SA, Commissioner of the Nivelles Prison Supervisory Commission - Mr Alain Harford (F), member of the Asbl De Huizen – The Houses - Mr. Pieter Houbey (N), accompanist at the Community Institution, from Kempen to Mol - Ms. Marie Jadoul (F), Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure Assistant, UCL - Mr. Francis Lefebvre (F), attached to the grace service of the FPS Justice - Mr. Marc Nève (F), lawyer - Mr. Norbert Verleyen (N), doctor - Mr. Tony Vermeulen (N), doctor In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 November 2018, I propose to you that the persons who have applied in response to the first call in the Belgian Official Journal should be invited to a hearing in the Committee on Justice. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 21 November 2018, I propose that you already hold a hearing in the Committee on Justice with the persons who have submitted their candidature following the first call to the Belgian Moniteur. Are you sure you don't mind? [[no]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u132	Votes 125 Votants Blank or invalid 5 White or invalid Valid 120 Valables Perfect majority 61 Absolute majority Mr Bart Van Damme received 120 votes. Mr. Bart Van Damme won 120 votes. Mr Jan Van den Berghe received 0 votes. M. Jan Van den Berghe a obtenu 0 suffrage. Mr Bart Van Damme, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed first alternate to Ms Kathleen Stinckens, Chairman of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Mr. Bart Van Damme, having obtained an absolute majority, was proclaimed the first alternate of Ms. Kathleen Stinckens, Chair of the Standing Committee on Police Services Control.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u133	There's still one candidate left. Consequently, I declare Mr Jan Van den Berghe appointed as second alternate to Mrs Kathleen Stinckens, Chairman of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision, pursuant to Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. 6, of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. There's only one candidate left. I therefore declare Mr. Jan Van den Berghe elected as second deputy to Ms. Kathleen Stinckens, Chairman of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u134	Votes 127 Votants Blank or invalid 4 White or invalid Valid 123 Valables Perfect majority 62 Absolute majority Mrs Morgane Lobjois received two votes. Morgane Lobjois won two votes. Mr Olivier Mazy received four votes. Mr. Olivier Mazy won 4 votes. Mr Vincent Stragier received 117 votes. Mr Vincent Stragier won 117 votes. Mr Vincent Stragier, who was given the absolute majority, was appointed first alternate to Mr Guy Cumps, Vice-President of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Mr. Vincent Stragier, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared the first alternate of Mr. Guy Cumps, Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. We shall now proceed to the appointment of the first alternate for Mr Herman Daens (N) and the first alternate for Mr Antonio Caci (F). Now we are appointing the first alternate of Mr Herman Daens (N) and the first alternate of Mr Antonio Caci (F). I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u135	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u136	These motions were tabled in the plenary session of 22 November 2018. These motions were tabled in plenary on November 22, 2018. Three motions were tabled in the following chronological order: - a first motion was tabled by Mrs Els Van Hoof, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Mrs Nele Lijnen and Mr Wim Van der Donkt; - a second motion was tabled by Mrs Fabienne Winckel and Mr Daniel Senesael; - a third motion was tabled by Mrs Sarah Schlitz and Mrs Evita Willaert. Three motions were tabled in the following chronological order: - a first motion was tabled by Ms Els Van Hoof, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Ms Nele Lijnen and Mr Wim Van der Donckt; - a second motion was tabled by Ms Fabienne Winckel and Mr Daniel Senesael; - a third motion was tabled by Ms Sarah Schlitz and Ms Evita Willaert. I propose that you vote on the motions in the chronological order of referral. I propose that you vote on the motions in chronological order of their tabling. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u137	Mr President, for this vote and the following votes, I have agreed to go hand in hand with Mr Goffin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u138	I put to the vote the motion by Mrs Els Van Hoof, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Mrs Nele Lijnen and Mr Wim Van der Donkt. I put to the vote the motion of Mrs Els Van Hoof, Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Ms Nele Lijnen and Mr Wim Van der Donckt. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u139	Yes 76 Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 130 Total The motion was adopted. Consequently, the other motions lapse. (3270/3) The motion has been passed. As a result, the other motions are obsolete. (3270/3) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u140	Mr President, the sp.a Group voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u141	It's been noted. Mr Beke also voted in favour. Mr Piedboeuf has voted like his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u142	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 78 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3266/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3266/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Servais Verherstraeten voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u143	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 78 Yes No. 49 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3356/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3356/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mr Jef Van den Bergh voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u144	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 77 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 54 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3355/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3355/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u145	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 6. (3335/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 6. (3335/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[47]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Eric Thiébaut on Article 6. (3335/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Eric Thiébaut to Article 6. (3335/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u146	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Michel de Lamotte on Article 6. (3335/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Michel de Lamotte to Article 6. (3335/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u147	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Eric Thiébaut on Article 6. (3335/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Eric Thiébaut to Article 6. (3335/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u148	The amendment was therefore rejected. Articles 27/3 and 27/4 in Article 6 shall be adopted. Article 6 is adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Articles 27/3 and 27/4 to Article 6 were adopted. Article 6 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 79 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3335/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3335/6) Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? ) Ladies and gentlemen, there are still a number of secret ballots, but the result of the previous one is not yet known. I propose that the sitting be suspended for a moment, pending the results. It'll be very brief. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u150	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u151	Votes 125 Votants Blank or invalid [[8]] White or invalid Valid 117 Valables Perfect majority 59 Absolute majority Mr Peter De Smet received 111 votes. Mr. Peter De Smet won 111 votes. Mr Filip Jodts received six votes. Mr Filiep Jodts obtained 6 votes. Mr Peter De Smet, who was given the absolute majority, was appointed first alternate to Mr Herman Daens, a Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Mr. Peter De Smet, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared the first alternate of Mr. Herman Daens, a Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u152	There's still one candidate left. Consequently, I declare Mr Filip Jodts appointed as the first deputy to Mr Jack Vissers, a Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Police Services, pursuant to Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. 6, of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. There's only one candidate left. I therefore declare Mr. Filiep Jodts elected as the first alternate of Mr. Jack Vissers, a Dutch-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u153	Votes 128 Votants Blank or invalid [[16]] White or invalid Valid 112 Valables Perfect majority 57 Absolute majority Mrs Morgane Lobjois received 102 votes. Morgane Lobjois won 102 votes. Mr Olivier Mazy received 10 votes. Mr. Olivier Mazy won 10 votes. Ms Morgane Lobjois, who had been granted the absolute majority, was appointed first alternate to Mr Antonio Caci, a French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Ms. Morgane Lobjois, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared the first alternate of Mr.Antonio Caci, a French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. We shall now proceed to the appointment of the second deputy to the French-speaking Vice-President. Now we are making the appointment of the second alternate of the French-speaking vice-president. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u154	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting. Since the two mandates of the second Deputy Member (N) of the Standing Committee P cannot be completed, I propose that you publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for these mandates. Since the two terms of second alternate member (N) of the Standing Committee P cannot be allocated, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Monitor a new call for candidates for these terms. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u155	We must appoint the first and second alternates of Mr Laurent Van Doren, an effective French-speaking member for the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. For the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, we must appoint the first and second alternate of Mr. Laurent Van Doren, a Francophone effective member. Mr Thibaut Vandamme has applied for the mandate of First Deputy Member. Mr Thibaut Vandamme applied for the term of first alternate member. Since there is only one candidate, Mr Thibaut Vandamme may, pursuant to Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure, be declared elected for the mandate of Mr Laurent Van Doren's first alternate. Since there is only one candidate, the Chamber may declare Mr. Thibaut Vandamme elected as the first alternate of Mr. Laurent Van Doren, pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Rules of the Chamber. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Mr Michel Croquet has applied for the mandate of second alternate member. Mr. Michel Croquet applied for the term of office of second alternate member. Since there is only one candidate, Mr Michel Croquet may, pursuant to Rule 157.6 of the Rules of Procedure, be elected for the term of office of second alternate to Mr Laurent Van Doren. Since there is only one candidate, the Chamber may declare Mr. Michel Croquet elected as second deputy to Mr. Laurent Van Doren, pursuant to rule 157.6 of the Rules of the Chamber. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u156	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of alternate members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on embryo-implantants in vitro. The next item is the election for the appointment of the alternate members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. In accordance with Article 9 (2) of the Law of 11 May 2003 on embryo research in vitro, the Commission shall consist of: - eight doctors (four effective members and four alternates); - eight PhDs in science (four effective members and four alternates); - four lawyers (two effective members and two alternates); - eight experts in the ethical and social sciences (four effective members and four alternates). In accordance with Article 9(2) of the Act of 11 May 2003 on research into in vitro embryos, the Commission shall consist of: - eight medical doctors (four actual members and four alternates); - eight science doctors (four actual members and four alternates); - four jurists (two actual members and two alternates); - eight experts in ethical matters and social sciences (four active members and four alternates). The Commission shall have no less than one third of the same sex. She has as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members. An alternate with the same qualification shall be appointed for each effective member. The Commission may not count less than one third of the members of each sex. It has as many French-speaking members as Dutch-speaking members. For each effective member, an alternate who has the same qualifications shall be appointed. The alternates shall be appointed by the Chamber by a simple majority of the votes cast. Alternate members shall be appointed by the Chamber by a simple majority of the votes cast. The term of office of effective Member of the Commission shall be four years and renewable. The term of office of the effective member of the Commission shall be four years and shall be renewable. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 18 October 2018. Nominations were announced in plenary on October 18, 2018. The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed (3369/1). The document bearing the names of the candidates was distributed to you (3369/1). However, I would like to draw your attention to the following: However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that: We should not vote in favour of the category 'doctors'. There are as many candidates as there are mandates to go. As a result, Mr Hugo Godoy and Mr Willem Verpoest, as well as Mrs Sophie Perrier, Mrs Hauterive and Mrs Karen Sermon, are in accordance with Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. 6, of the Rules of the Chamber, appointed as alternate members of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on Embroidery Experiments in vitro. There is no need to vote for the category "doctors in medicine". Indeed, there are as many candidates as there are terms of office. I therefore declare Messrs. Hugo Godoy and Willem Verpoest, as well as Sophie Perrier d'Hauterive and Karen Sermon, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, appointed as alternate members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. We should not vote in favour of the category 'doctors in science'. For the mandates of Dutch-speaking doctor in the sciences, there are as many candidates as there are to go. Consequently, Mr Björn Heindryckx and Ms Usha Punjabi, pursuant to Article 157 No. 6, of the Rules of the Chamber, appointed as alternate members of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on Embroidery Experiments in vitro. There is no need for a vote for the category "doctors in science". Indeed, for the mandates of Doctor of Dutch-speaking Sciences there are as many candidates as there are warrants to be filled. I therefore declare Mr. Björn Heindryckx and Ms. Usha Punjabi, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, appointed as alternate members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 17 October 2018, I propose to ask the Public Health Office to publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the appointment of the missing alternate members (French-speaking doctors in the sciences). In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 17 October 2018, I propose that you request the SPF Santé publique to publish a new call for candidates to the Moniteur belge for the appointment of the missing alternate members (doctors in French-speaking sciences). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. We should not vote for the category 'experts in the ethical and social sciences'. There are as many candidates as there are mandates to go. As a result, Mr Dan Lecocq and Mr Marc Mayer, as well as Mrs Kelly Tilleman and Mrs Hilde Van de Velde, are applying Rule 157 No. 6, of the Rules of the Chamber, appointed as alternate members of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on Embroidery Experiments in vitro. There is no need to vote for the category "experts in ethical matters and social sciences". Indeed, there are as many candidates as there are mandates to be filled. I therefore declare Messrs. Dan Lecocq and Marc Mayer and Ms Kelly Tilleman and Ms Hilde Van de Velde, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, appointed as alternate members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. The Federal Commission now has a third female and male member. The Federal Commission currently has one third female and male members. We must therefore only vote in favour of the category of 'lawyers' for one mandate of Dutch-speaking lawyer and one mandate of French-speaking lawyer. It is therefore only necessary to vote for the "legal" category – this for a mandate as a French-speaking jurist and a mandate as a Dutch-speaking jurist. The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. In order to vote, one has to place a cross in the box opposite the names of the chosen candidates. Vote notes with more votes than there are mandates are invalid. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the names of the selected candidates. Ballot papers containing more votes than there are warrants to be filled shall be void. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u157	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u158	Votes 125 Votants Blank or invalid 9 White or invalid Valid 116 Valables Perfect majority 59 Absolute majority Mrs Déborah Dewulf received three votes. Ms. Deborah Dewulf obtained 3 votes. Mr Olivier Mazy received 113 votes. Mr Olivier Mazy won 113 votes. Mr Olivier Mazy, who was given the absolute majority, was appointed second deputy to Mr Guy Cumps, Vice-President of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Mr. Olivier Mazy, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed second alternate of Mr. Guy Cumps, Vice-Chairman of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u159	There's still one candidate left. Consequently, I declare Mrs Déborah Dewulf appointed as second alternate to Mr Antonio Caci, a French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision, pursuant to Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. 6, of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. There's only one candidate left. I therefore declare Ms. Deborah Dewulf elected as second alternate to Mr. Antonio Caci, a Francophone member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, we are suspending for a moment, pending the outcome of the previous secret ballot. There will be a vote of name after that. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u160	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u161	Votes 125 Votants Blank or invalid 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. White or invalid Valid 123 Valables Perfect majority 62 Absolute majority Juristen Jurists Dutch-speaking candidates Dutch-speaking applicants Mrs Emilie Bekaert received 98 votes. Ms. Emilie Bekaert won 98 votes. Mr Sven Gondry received 0 votes. Mr. Sven Gondry won 0 votes. Mrs. Sarah Panis received one vote. Mrs. Sarah Panis won one vote. Mr Koen T'Syen received 17 votes. Mr. Koen T'Syen won 17 votes. Since Mrs Emilie Bekaert received 98 votes, which is the absolute majority, she has been appointed alternate member of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on embryos in vitro. Ms. Emilie Bekaert, having obtained 98 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an alternate member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. French-speaking candidates Francophone applicants Mrs Géraldine Mathieu received 15 votes. Ms Géraldine Mathieu won 15 votes. Mr Geoffrey Willems received 106 votes. Mr Geoffrey Willems won 106 votes. Since Mr Geoffrey Willems has received 106 votes, which is the absolute majority, he has been appointed alternate member of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on embryos in vitro. Mr Geoffrey Willems, having obtained 106 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an alternate member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. There are as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members. There are as many French-speaking members as there are Dutch-speaking members. There's a third member of the same sex. There's a third of the same sex.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u162	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u163	Yes 81 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 3010/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 3010/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? ) Mr Michel de Lamotte has voted like his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-22-54-plenair-ip256x.u164	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 29 November 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, November 29, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 29 November 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 29 November 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
