ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u1	Thank you, Minister, for coming. I don't know if you've been lost again in the building like last week, but if that's the case, I suggest you get a ground plan. Minister, in all provinces, peace judges and police judges have their own board of directors and their own chief of police. They are the direct contact point for the Ministry of Justice. As such, they have a lot to eat. However, following the disastrous reform of the judicial district of Brussels by the sixth'state malformation', this arrangement does not apply to the peace courts of Brussels and Halle-Vilvoorde. For them, a fairly unworkable arrangement was drawn up which means that the Brussels cantons and those of the outskirts are under the supervision of the presidents of the Dutch and French courts of first instance. As is well known, a system in which two captains are on board does not work. This is also the case here. The two court presidents have a different vision and also a different temperament. Moreover, they already have their hands full with the concerns of their own courts. As a result, they have little or no time to deal with the problems of the peace courts and the police courts, let alone to make them known to the Ministry of Justice. So I have the impression that the measure in this respect is gradually filling up for the Brussels peace judges. There are complaints about too little budget, the emptying of the Registrys, a lack of staff and too much workload. They do not feel supported by their superiors, by that double Presidency. They want a structural solution which is to give them a full structure, as is the case in the rest of the country. They would then be able to choose their own chief of police who can effectively defend their interests, as they should. On top of that, new tasks will be entrusted to the peace judges. They already have a high workload, but an imminent merger of the Brussels peace courts will create additional workload. In the foreseeable future, their tasks will be increased if they become competent for all monetary disputes up to EUR 5 000, double the current limit amount. There are also plans to transfer an important task of the labour courts, namely the collective debt regime, to those peace courts. The workload that is already very high today will therefore only increase. No additional staff has been provided for this, quite the contrary. The displeasure is so great that several judges want to retire early. They also fear that no one will be willing to postulate for such a poorly framed job. My question, Minister, is to what extent you are aware of the discontent of the Brussels peace judges and of the unworkability of the current system with the dual Presidency. Are you prepared to have an investigation conducted into the grievances of the peace appetizers involved in order to remedy this? My last question is the most important one. Are you prepared to make structural reforms to the organisation of the peace courts, with, as they ask, the same leadership structure as all the other peace courts in the country and no longer a structure with two bosses? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u2	Mr President, may I say something beforehand, and perhaps not for the report? I apologize for the delay. It's a lot of work every week to get the answers to the questions. I'm not behind on this committee. I hope that people can appreciate this. However, I would like to apologize. Mrs Pas, I do not really agree with the claim that the presence of two captains on a ship is, by definition, impossible. I know the spell, but I think a lot of couples would argue that this is not possible. In my case, at least I dispute that. I refer to my reply last week to the question you asked about the police courts in the Brussels arrondissement. In view of the situation of that arrondissement, the separate situation of the peace judges outside the reform of the courts in Brussels and the police court in Brussels, which is divided into a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking section, the legislator has opted to provide for its own management structure, adapted to the context of the judicial district of Brussels. As indicated in my reply last week, the Constitutional Court, in its judgment in 97/2015 of 25 June 2015, accepted that the specific features associated with the judicial district of Brussels, which includes the administrative arrondissement of Brussels-Capital and the arrondissement of Halle-Vilvoorde, required a special arrangement for the organisation of the courts of which that arrondissement is composed, in particular for the peace courts and police courts, both for the magistrates and for the staff. Peace courts, and not just those in Brussels and Halle-Vilvoorde, are currently the subject of important reforms. It is logical that this causes some concern on the ground, but that is why regular consultations were held with the Presidents of the peace courts, including the Presidents of Brussels who took part in it. I also refer to the fact that the Presidents of the two courts of first instance in Brussels have come up with a proposal for a new division of the peace courts in the Brussels region. That will now be implemented. When opening vacancies, the peace courts in the Brussels district are treated no differently than those in the rest of the country. As announced in the reform of the judicial cantons, vacancies are issued so that there can be a court of peace in each canton. On 21 December, five vacant relations were published for peace judges in the Brussels arrondissement. So the rule is one hundred percent of the new cantons. That is no different for Brussels. Job vacancies shall be opened to support staff in the Registry in consultation with the College of the Courts and Courts. A vacancy plan is drawn up by the FPS Justice and consulted with the College, which receives input from the presidents in the field. You're asking me about my field knowledge. It is, of course, limited, given the greatness of the Belgian Empire. Nevertheless, I must stress that the difficulty of finding registry staff in the broad sense is general in Brussels, and not only for the peace courts. It is very difficult, in view of the mobility problems that our country has, given the staff's rights to change, to hold staff back at the Registry, as is said in bad Dutch, for Brussels. This is a general problem: very often there are no applications for vacancies. I repeat, this is not only true of the peace process.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would also like to express my appreciation for the fact that this Committee on Justice is one of the few committees to which questions are answered very quickly each time. I wish it would be like this in every committee. I have some reservations about your reply, Minister. The spell of the two captains, of course, comes from somewhere. You're comparing it to your domestic situation. That is, of course, a comparison that does not work, because that is where people choose to work together and one can assume that the characters do not collide too hard. In this case, however, they do not choose themselves and Luc Hennart, flamboyant and strongly politically engaged, is opposed to the much more thoughtful colleague Van Winsen. Then it can happen faster that the characters collide. Now the practice proves that having two bosses doesn't work. I understand that there are all kinds of reforms underway. However, the concern is logical, because it mainly entails additional workload but no additional support and no additional staff. Despite your explanation, I still do not see any objective reason why these peace judges are not properly represented in Brussels, why they are treated completely differently from those in the rest of the country. In order to take into account the grievances of those Brussels peace judges in all your reforms, I have prepared a motion of recommendation, which I will present immediately, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u4	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Minister of Justice's reply, - whereas in all provinces peace judges and police judges have their own Management Committee and their own Chief of Staff, which are the direct contact point for the Ministry of Justice; - whereas the Brussels Peace Courts and the outlying municipalities are an exception; - whereas, for these peace courts, a fairly unworkable arrangement was drawn up whereby the Brussels cantons and those of the neighbouring municipalities are under the authority of the Presidents of the Dutch and French courts of first instance; - whereas both court chairs have different views and different temperaments and, moreover, already have their hands full with the concerns of their own courts; - whereas it neglects the representation of interests at the Ministry of Justice with regard to the Brussels peace courts and the peripheral municipalities; - whereas these peace courts are therefore a party calling for a full structure, as is the case in the peace courts in the rest of the country; calls on the government to structuralally reform the Brussels peace courts and the outlying municipalities in such a way that they are given the same leadership structure as all the other peace courts in the country." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Minister of Justice, - Considering that in all provinces, justices of the peace and police judges have their own executive committee and chief of corps, which constitute the direct point of contact with the Ministry of Justice; - Whereas the justices of the peace of Brussels and the municipalities of the periphery are an exception to this rule; - Whereas a quasi-inapplicable system has been drawn up for these justices of the peace, a system which provides, in plain terms, that the cantons of Brussels and those of the communes of the periphery are placed, for these matters, under the supervision of the presidents of the courts of first instance of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking countries; - Considering that the two presidents of the courts have a different vision and temperament and that they are already gripped by the concerns of their own courts; - Whereas the Ministry of Justice therefore neglects the interests of the Brussels justices of the peace and the municipalities of the periphery; - Whereas these justices of peace are therefore seeking a fully-fledged structure such as that available to the justices of peace in the rest of the country; calls on the government to carry out structural reform in the Brussels justices of peace and in the municipalities of the periphery so that they have a governing structure identical to that of all the other justices of peace in the country." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Mr Servais Verherstraeten. A simple motion was tabled by Ms Goedele Uyttersprot and Messrs. Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Servais Verherstraeten. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. Questions Nos 23220, 23221 and 23222 by Mr Terwingen have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u5	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, on December 28, La Dernière Heure referred to a note from the FPS Justice concerning the Court Fees Commission dealing with appeals concerning the amounts of court fees. Indeed, since September 2016, a new Court Fees Commission has not yet been appointed. This situation prevents judicial experts from exercising their right to appeal. While, for several months now, experts have been subject to severe reductions in remuneration, they would no longer even be able to challenge them. It would seem that it is not your intention to make a new commission, but rather to amend the law. Minister, can you give us a clear explanation of your decision and your intentions? How do you intend to change the legal provisions? For what reasons have you deprived judicial experts, who are indispensable actors for the proper functioning of our legal system, of their right of appeal since 2016? How do you explain that judicial experts are thus deprived of their right of appeal under the Act of 27 December 2006?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Özen, the Committee on Legal Costs, which has always been chaired by a judge who has demonstrated a particular knowledge of this complex matter, has certainly provided useful legal work when it was active. However, the method of work used was not optimal because the handling of appeals, even in some simple cases, often lasted for a year or more, resulting in a long uncertainty about the subject matter of the issue being discussed. In addition, it should be noted that, in the last years of its existence, the Commission had to deal more and more with problems already dealt with before. There were virtually no questions of general interest. The commission, at the time consisting of a chairman, members and alternates appointed by the Minister of Justice for a period of two years, was to be renewed in September 2016 and the members were to decide on their possible new candidature. It was then apparent that no candidate appeared to be taking the Chair. Intensive research and insistent demands have not led to any solution. This is the de facto reason for the disappearance of the Commission and therefore for the possibility of an organised appeal against administrative decisions on legal costs. In the meantime, a new, less cumbersome and more efficient procedure is being prepared and could replace the appeal to the committee. It will be included in the new legislation currently being prepared to update the matter of court fees in depth after 68 years. The full reform is expected to be completed again this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I would like to inform you of a decision of the Commission des frais de justice dated 2011. At the time, this commission was presided over by a magistrate who, today, became the king's prosecutor. According to that decision, the person providing services is entitled to an effective and accessible remedy. This obviously means that the national authority must be able to take corrective action. Finally, it provides for the possibility of bringing an action before the Commission des frais de justice. In caseu, the legislator has, of course, expressed the explicit wish that an effective remedy may exist before an administrative tribunal. If the Court Costs Commission were not to rule on the sentence of a requesting service provider, its right to an effective remedy would therefore simply be denied in concrete terms. It is, in my view, your responsibility to do everything possible and to appeal to find a magistrate who can preside over this very important commission; indeed, the judicial experts who contribute to the proper functioning of the Judicial Order are still waiting for their remuneration, sometimes for a year, a year and a half.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u8	Mr President, Minister, the Supreme Court of Justice had an audit carried out following several complaints from judges, about staff shortages in justice. The audit mainly shows that courts are doing what they can to cope with the staff shortages they experience. This is not self-evident because they only have limited resources. Moreover, the courts have only a part of the responsibility for the management of personnel. Staff management in the Judicial Order is highly fragmented and needs an integral human resources management. Efforts should be made to steer all aspects relating to staff from a single model. To date, there is no formalised and common tool for workload measurement for all courts. According to the Supreme Court of Justice, there is a need for a common, reliable and supported tool for measuring the workload, so that the division of personnel will be based on the real needs of the court. There is a general decision in most courts that there is a lack of staff resources. The courts are doing what they can to cope with the shortage of staff they experience, by reorganising internally, setting priorities, reducing the workload of magistrates and staff, etc. However, the Supreme Court of Justice considers that the Minister of Justice must assume his responsibilities and ensure that there are sufficient qualified staff available so that a lasting solution can be found and a court should no longer resort to patchwork. Mr Minister, I have two questions in that connection. Firstly, what will you do with the recommendations and findings from the "Staff Management in the Courts of First Instance" audit of the Supreme Court of Justice? Secondly, do you intend, as requested by the Supreme Court of Justice, to assume your responsibility and ensure that sufficient qualified staff are available and that a lasting solution is found?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u9	Indeed, Minister, to bounce back on what you were saying earlier, I have just asked questions in the Committee on Health which dated back to September. The question I'm going to ask you is January 24. It can be said that you are Speedy Gonzales as to the answers to the questions! An audit was recently conducted at the initiative of the Supreme Council of Justice in the courts of first instance. It is clear from the report that in most cases these institutions consider that there is a shortage of staff. This would lead the various courts to resort to makeshift solutions such as reducing opening hours, which is not a positive measure, or increasing the number of unpaid trainees, which also poses some problems. As a result, the Supreme Council of Justice has requested the establishment of a common workload measurement instrument for all entities. Minister, have you read about this audit? I guess so. What is your view of the situation? How do you accept the request made by the Supreme Council of Justice? What follow-up do you intend to give to this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u10	Mr President, I have indeed taken note of the audit on staff management in the courts of first instance. The audit of the Supreme Court of Justice does make matters less acute than in your question. Recommendations are made to the Minister of Justice, but also to the College of the courts and courts and to the courts themselves. I believe that the audit contains a number of interesting recommendations and findings. The Supreme Council of Justice has rightly pointed out that established legal frameworks are not the result of an objective analysis of current staffing needs. This leads to this observation in the audit: "However, it is difficult to verify whether complaints about staff shortages are well founded. Indeed, in the current situation, in the absence of a common workload assessment instrument, it cannot be objected to whether or not certain bodies have sufficient resources to function properly." That is why I would like to replace former staff managers with staff envelopes that would be allocated on the basis of an allocation method that would take into account workload and case processing. I asked the College of Courts and Courts to design this type of allocation model. In addition, this model should allow for a comparison of the workload between the different types of jurisdiction in order to serve as a basis for the possible displacement of human resources between all entities, both between courts and tribunals and between different courts or courts within the same jurisdiction. According to the Supreme Court of Justice, there is also a need for a strategic vision for staff management. The Supreme Court of Justice calls on the College of the courts and courts to develop a general view as soon as possible. Until now, human resources were mainly managed centrally, from the FPS Justice Department. However, the increase in the scale of the courts in 2014 and future independent management create a number of new needs in the courts, such as the demand for a staff management tool. As part of the independent management process, the colleges will take over staff management in the long term. Therefore, the 2014 Law on Independent Management provides that the common support services of the colleges should provide support to management committees in the area of staff management, budget, etc. On the other hand, in the framework of the federal redesign and with the agreement of both colleges, it is intended that the payroll and staff administration would be made use of PersoPoint, the social secretariat of the federal government at the FOD BOSA from 2019. Preparatory analysis is currently under way in the Human Resources Departments of the FPS Justice Department. The police chiefs' request for instruments to manage their personnel is justified. It therefore seems useful to me that the FOD Justice, the FOD BOSA and the lectures are sitting together. In fact, we have already agreed with the colleges to develop a proper collection of data through the development of an BI plan, which is necessary for the administration of the judicial organisation. Another finding of the Supreme Court is the over-recruitment procedure. I am in favour of increasing the frequency of vacancy plans, in cooperation with the colleges. However, an additional problem is that the actual appointment procedure is very long, but I am prepared to examine any proposal that optimises the appointment procedure. Finally, the Supreme Council has established that very good practices are being developed in the courts in terms of staff planning, increased mobility, training, standardization and harmonization of work processes, improved session management, etc. As the Conseil Supérieur asserts, the Chiefs of Staff are therefore looking at the benefits of scaling up and, in particular, taking the opportunity to optimize the means. As a result, quality dynamics have emerged in some courts. The Supreme Council rightly calls on the Presidents to share these interesting practices. I believe that this dynamism and an objective and dynamic distribution of resources between the courts will provide a good answer to the problem of shortages and the distribution of staff and resources, which is the subject of the audit of the Supreme Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can see your willingness, but I'm still sitting on my hunger and many with me. It is not a problem that has arisen this year, but which has existed for a long time. I keep hearing the same thing, namely that people recognize the problem and that people sit together, but I always miss concrete proposals, including on recruitment. By the way, one of my next questions will be about that. It has been said for many years that human resources policy is such a problem. Now we are talking about 2019. Then there is another legislature and we have to start again from scratch. It's later than five to twelve, in the field of personnel management. I fear there is too much meeting, but there is too little action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u12	Minister, your answer reassures me. You are well aware of the audit, but also of other sources. I know how difficult it is to recruit enough staff – whether because of the lack of applications or, at times, lack of interest. This is particularly the case in Flanders. This problem, which includes justice, will therefore have to be resolved. Of course, as you said, this is not just a personnel problem. I'll follow the case carefully. In any case, Minister, I thank you for the breadth and depth of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u13	Mr Minister, according to an interview with police judge Stinckens, the saliva analysis in the context of checks on drug use in traffic in practice is still being replaced by a blood sample. However, blood sampling is cumbersome and time-consuming, as a physician must always be advanced. In the saliva analysis, the police can collect an extensive saliva sample themselves, and then pass it on to a lab. That is why I have the following questions. Mr. Secretary, is that a story? What is the reason why saliva analyses could still not be performed? In what timing would that analysis be possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u14	Mrs Lambrecht, it is true that so far the confirmatory analysis has still to be carried out on the blood sample. The saliva collectors have not yet been awarded. That procedure is ongoing. The Finance Inspector gave a favourable opinion in the procedure on 11 January 2018. However, he will have to re-examine it, as the saliva collector kits offered by the selected provider would not meet the conditions of the Royal Decree of 27 November 2015. My administration hopes to be able to complete the award of the saliva collectors in the coming months. Subsequently, a recognition procedure for the judicial labs will also have to be carried out before the saliva analyses can be effectively implemented in the course of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u15	Minister, we have the good hope for implementation in the course of 2018. I will follow up the dossier and ask whether it is being implemented. Sometimes I really feel sorry for you, because you are always struggling with delays and then you have to correct the mistakes that have been made. I'm not addressing you personally. It is annoying, but it is also unbelievable how many files linger and need to be dealt with again within the Justice Department. Again, something which should be quite normal, in particular the replacement of blood tests with saliva tests, has to deal with things that are not satisfactory. I'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u16	Minister, if different parties have a conflict, it does not always have to be resolved in court. This can also be done outside, through a conciliation procedure, as an alternative to a judicial dispute. This is not only faster and cheaper, but it also relieves the court, which has the core task of resolving disputes. Even though 17 percent more conciliation procedures were launched last year than in 2013, the Belgian still opts for an amicable dispute resolution far too little. The 2016 mediation barometer shows that a conciliation procedure lasts on average 83 days and that the mediator and the parties see each other on average three to six times. The mediator charges the parties an average of 12 hours, with a fee of between 50 and 150 euros per hour, which is still cheaper than a lawsuit. A conciliation procedure can be used in civil and commercial matters, but has recently been popular with family matters such as divorce, alimony and access rights between parents and children or grandparents and children. You have already indicated in the past that mediation should be given a full place within Justice, which would lead to a draft law. The aim is to reduce the threshold to mediation, to improve and speed up information on existing conflict solutions, to upgrade the profession of mediator, and also to modernise the mandate and structure of the Federal Conciliation Committee. Prime Minister, how many mediations took place in 2016 and 2017? How many of these effectively came to a solution? For a more specific split, I also submitted the question in writing, given the short timeframe for an oral question. Secondly, can you tell us whether the conciliation procedure is being used more often or whether the judicial procedure is still being chosen? Is there a shift from judicial proceedings to out-of-court proceedings? Thirdly, when do you intend to come to the committee with your draft law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u17	Mrs Uyttersprot, I can say the following about the number of conciliations. From the Statistical Office of the courts and courts I learned that the courts of first instance and the family courts do not have numerical data on the use of mediation. The statistical project on this subject is still being developed. Nor is it possible to obtain reliable information as regards the commercial court. The Statistical Office of the courts and courts does inform us that mediation is not always used. We also received an answer from the Federal Conciliation Committee that it does not have official figures. It points out that accurate figures are not evident, because many mediations are voluntary, i.e.: extrajudicial, and therefore often no approval is requested, so that they are difficult to trace. Data based on samples can be found in the mediation barometer 2016, bMediation. From the consultation of the mediation barometer, I can only remember that samples showed that in 2015 3 210 people had recourse to family mediation. The 2016 Mediation Barometer shows that mediation is on the rise, albeit at a rather slow pace, and to date, compared to the number of judgments and judgments delivered, still constitutes a small minority in the way a dispute is ended. The reactions that I was allowed to receive from on-site are the same. I also refer to the results of doctoral research, carried out by Wendy Hensen at the University of Hasselt, with the title: "Justice and mediation, a survey and analysis on the possibilities and bottlenecks of judicial mediation. Finally, I should like to inform you that the draft law laying down various provisions on civil law and amending the Code of Justice with a view to promoting alternative forms of dispute resolution will soon be submitted to the Chamber of Representatives. The discussion of the draft law in the Committee on Justice could therefore take place during the months of February and March.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u18	Minister, I regret that no official figures have been made available. Apparently, the conclusion of the sample was that only a small minority chooses mediation. That is a pity, because you will agree with me that a negotiated solution that is supported by both sides is better respected than an externally imposed solution. We look forward to the draft law in committee in February and March, and then have the opportunity to discuss it in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u19	The attached questions Nos 23232 and 23233 of Mr Dallemagne are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u20	Minister, a large international drug gang goes free because there were problems with the bugged telephone calls. That was decided by the correctional court in Brussels. At the trial, the defense claimed there was a problem with the bugged phone calls in the file. On the transcripts of the conversations two names were mentioned, but in the telephone conversation there was clearly a third voice. The defense attorneys therefore asked to be able to listen to all the bugged phone calls to check the transcripts. When it turned out there was a problem with the DVDs on which those conversations were written. They were illegible. Because the defense and the court couldn't listen to these tapescocks, the court ruled that the whole criminal action was inadmissible. I come to my questions. Is it true that the DVDs were illegible because of the circumstances in which the DVDs are kept? Or is it more the faulty equipment? What measures will you take to prevent such a situation from occurring?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u21	Mrs Lambrecht, I can refer you to the answer that Mr De Block gave on my behalf last week in plenary on this issue. The acquittal in this case was based on the alleged illegibility of the DVD with the integral recordings of the bugged telephone calls. The Central Interception Facility of the Federal Police subsequently confirmed to me that the DVDs were technically well readable, and that those DVDs contained both telephone calls and programs, especially the Light Viewer with which the conversations could be listened to. However, the audio was not listened to with the right listening program, so there was only one voice to hear and the conversations were not properly organized. The NTSU/CTIF service of the federal police was indeed contacted and had indicated that the wrong program was being used. Although using the application to read or listen to the files is very simple, I have given the command to create one simple instruction video and distribute it to those who need to use the read application but fail to do so successfully. The prosecution has now decided to appeal in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u22	Questions Nos 23328, 23329 and 23330 by Mrs Van Cauter have been postponed. Mr Terwingen and Mrs Lambrecht put together questions on item 17 of the agenda. Mr Terwingen is absent. Can we postpone these questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u23	If possible, I would like to put my question now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u24	Mr President, Minister, in mid-January I questioned you about the implementation of Protocol 436, or rather the failure or failure to implement it. Meanwhile, it's price. In all Belgian prisons, the trade unions started on Monday with a series of punctuality actions to charge the staff shortage. Friday's probably gonna be a 24-hour strike. In the absence of an agreement, the same actions may be repeated a week later. In addition, there may be a sharpening from Monday 19 February onwards, with a 48-hour strike by the end of the week. The reason for the actions is the widespread displeasure among prison staff, as a result of, I quote the trade unions, 'your inadequate recruitment policy, the chronic understaffing of staff, the overcrowding of prisons and the failure of promotions and mutations'. In Bruges prison, twenty prisoners would sleep on mattresses on the floor. That while 50 cells are empty, which cannot be opened because of lack of staff. In May 2016, you promised to fill the staff framework within the year to 7 075 fulltimers. Meanwhile, we're over a year and a half away. To my previous question last month, you replied as follows, I quote: "On 4 January 2016, technical security staff counted 6 825,76 fulltime employees. On 2 January 2017, there were 6 653.9 and on 1 January 2018 6 713.06." The previous promise of 7 075 fulltimers was clearly not fulfilled. According to the trade unions, recruitment is far too slow, especially when account is taken of the 370 or so fulltime workers that are outflowing each year. I'll come to the questions. First of all, what will you do to respect the promises made before? Secondly, how will you restore peace to the prisons? Thirdly, is it true that there are twenty prisoners in Bruges who have to sleep on the ground because of the inadequate implementation of the staff framework, while 50 cells are empty?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, since the agreement was concluded on 30 May 2016, the services recruited 209 prison guards in 2016. Of these, 49 were already in contractual employment. In 2017, 432 staff were recruited, of which 11 were already employed as contractual agents. At present there are 82 recruitments of security assistants, three of which are already in contractual employment. These 82 recruitments are part of a wider dossier of 123 recruitments, including 39 recruitments for administrative staff. In total, taking into account recruitments for the other degrees within the penitentiary establishments, 851 recruitments have taken place or at the final stage. The main factors that have delayed the full implementation of the agreed recruitments are the stable but high number of staff leaving the organisation and the low profitability of the recruitment reserves. Despite the fact that more than twelve thousand candidates were screened, only about 750 people joined the PBA. Between June 2016 and the end of 2017, around 600 employees left the organisation. The complex budgetary rules have also caused some delay recently. During this morning's consultation with the trade unions, I presented them with an action plan for 2018 to 2019 that will give more concrete substance to their aspirations. Following these consultations, they received an amended version of the proposals this afternoon so that they could submit them to their internal bodies. The meeting went to my senses constructively, so I dare hope that we will be able to end the ongoing social conflict with a positive result. As far as the situation in Bruges prison is concerned, I can confirm that there are currently 12 inmates sleeping on a mattress on the floor. I have good hope that the commitments we make regarding recruitment should allow these two departments, which together count 38 cells, to be reopened in the relatively short term. The problem you raise will then no longer arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I remember there have been constructive talks. We will wait and see if they will indeed remove the unrest. I hear that in Bruges twelve prisoners sleep on a mattress on the floor. That's not 20, but that's 12 too many. It is not just about the conditions of prisoners in a country such as Belgium, it is also about the staff who have to carry out their work in much worse circumstances. Perhaps I did not understand correctly, Minister, but do you have a timing when those twelve prisoners will no longer have to sleep on the ground and when those two departments will be opened? Do we talk here in a few days or in a few months?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u27	I should ask the warden of the Bruges prison. But as always, Mrs Lambrecht, the answer is as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u28	Mr.President, Minister, on December 13, 2017, you answered my questions about the training offered as an alternative to immediate perceptions, in the context of the very forthcoming introduction of the system for collecting fines cross border. In fact, you reassured me that "even in the absence of these royal orders, there is no reason why the Public Prosecutor's Office should not be able to appeal to the ASBLs in the context of a pre-trial probation or mediation in criminal matters". These reassuring comments probably deserved to be relayed, but I do not think they are adequate in relation to the fears of the systematization of immediate notices of perception. We are told that the cross border system does not, at this stage, incorporate the alternative to the payment of the immediate perception of training. Some members of the steering committee seem to argue that, in the absence of royal decrees of execution, there is nothing to force them to integrate such formations into the system. Minister, what is planned in practice so that alternatives to immediate perception can still be proposed? Do you confirm that the Mach system will take these alternatives into account and that the cross border steering committee will ask bpost to integrate training as soon as possible, before the system is fully launched? The time that has already been lost may count in human lives. The repression of excessive speed on roads is not only a matter of budget but also of safety and quality of life.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u29	Mr President, Mr Frédéric, section 65 of the Road Traffic Act provides that training may be proposed by the police as an alternative to immediate perception. The Royal Decrees still need to be made in consultation with the various federal and regional partners in order to implement these provisions. It is therefore not currently possible for the police to offer offenders alternatives to immediate perception. To address your concern, however, I can confirm that, in the absence of these royal orders, the Public Prosecutor's Office retains the right to appeal to the NSOs in the context of pre-trial probation or mediation in criminal matters. The cross border project does not alter this competence in any way. The aim of the cross border project is to improve the collection of driving fines, large-scale automation will reduce the workload of police prosecutors and allow for more strict action against foreign or repeat offenders. The cross border steering group informed me that an evaluation of the automation process will follow towards the end of the year. The implementation of Article 65 of the Law on Road Traffic will be the subject of special attention at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u30	Minister, thank you. Your answer is substantially the same. You'll tell me that since December, there hasn't been much time. It maintains a right to use such training and that, in order for it to be an obligation or a constraint, a royal decree is required. When will this one be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u31	Mr. Frédéric, please excuse me. I was distracted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u32	I was saying good things about you and asking you if you had any idea when the royal decree would be taken to make this possibility more binding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u33	In the coming months. As soon as possible. Mr. Frédéric, thank you for saying good things about me, without me hearing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u34	That was why I was doing it, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u35	Minister, at the sitting of this committee on 13 December, I had the opportunity to question you about the situation of the Verviers peace justice. As a reminder, the current justice of the peace leaves today, January 31, 2018, to the pension and his successor has not yet been appointed and will probably not be appointed for many months given the length of the proceedings. Voluntary lawyers will therefore have to deal with urgent cases. This is, for me, a totally unacceptable situation with direct consequences for the citizen but also for the credibility of our Justice! In your reply, you referred to the reform of the judicial cantons, which will have an impact on the redistribution of functions, as well as the various possibilities that will be implemented in the meantime pending the appointment of a justice of the peace. This response, which was published, elicited feedback. On the ground, the threats of not organising the 2018 communal elections are real and the existing justices of the peace do not intend to take over the files of the unreplaced judges. In the press this Monday, 22 January, the Verviers stickman said that usually, lawyers willingly agree to replace judges in exceptional circumstances, but in this case, these are no longer exceptional circumstances. He also pointed out that, since justice was already pending, some alternate judges had decided that they would devote all available energy to justice and not to the organization of elections, which was also part of their duties. Minister, I think there is an urgent need to address the Verviers district. Can you confirm to me that the announcement for the vacancy of this place was published in the Belgian Moniteur? Among the various avenues that you considered in your December 13 response, which ones do you intend to implement from tomorrow, February 1st? If the threat of not organising the October 2018 communal elections was to be confirmed, what solutions do you recommend?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u36	Mr.President, Mr.Frédéric, particularly in light of the redistribution of the judicial cantons for the law of 25 December 2017, a series of holidays for the post of justice of the peace have recently been published. I am able to confirm that the vacancy of a justice of the peace for the canton of Verviers was published in the Moniteur belge on 21 December 2017. In the meantime, the deadline for submission of applications has been closed. My administration has received five applications, one of which has since been withdrawn. Opinions on the remaining candidates have already been sought. According to the legal deadlines in force, this procedure of appointment is to lead, in April, to a proposal to the Minister by the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u37	I therefore understand that the retired justice of the peace will be replaced in April.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u38	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u39	Such mobilization is not common in my region, which is usually a quiet region. Justice is mobilizing and threatening not to organize communal elections. I would not like to be informed that the position will be filled in April, then in May, then in June and finally next year. I know it's impossible for you to give an exact date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u40	We can't give you the answer the next day, Mr. Frédéric. But the answer is precise. Given the time constraints of the legislation and the Constitution, the procedure is expected to lead, in April, to a proposal made by the Supreme Council of Justice. Then it will take another six weeks before I receive this application, which will be published on the website of the Higher Council. After six weeks, we'll be in mid-June. My administration will then have another two months. I will do everything possible to ensure that the appointment takes place before the big holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u41	Well, I'll pass on your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u42	Minister, legal aid insurance gives policy holders the right to an attorney of your choice to be assisted in legal proceedings. Many policy holders have legal aid insurance in addition to another insurance policy, such as car insurance or fire and family insurance. A recent survey conducted by the OVB now shows that only one in four people know what their legal aid insurance is and use it, while they all pay for it. In your policy paper, you announced that you would provide a short-term legal aid insurance that is fiscally advantageous and can be charged. It is a legal aid insurance which is not mandatory but provides for the free choice of lawyer, with an extension to construction disputes and divorce. In order to benefit from the tax incentive, the government will set certain minimum conditions to be met. For that I have listed a number of questions, all of which are basically the same, namely the question of the state of play of the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u43	Ms Uyttersprot, the general meeting of the OVB invited me on 20 December 2017 to explain the state of play on legal aid insurance. I responded to this invitation because, in addition to the government and insurers, the legal profession is an important partner in the development of legal aid insurance. The public sector awareness campaign is a lawyer's own initiative, which I support. Many people already have insurance that includes legal aid without being aware of it. It is and remains a core task of the lawyer to examine with the seeker whether or not he has legal aid insurance. In creating a new form of legal aid insurance, the government has taken on the commitment to make it fiscally attractive to take out this insurance. The government has reserved the necessary resources for this. The legal anchoring of the new legal aid insurance has not yet been definitively established. Further consultations with the parties concerned will take place in the coming weeks. Given the various interests of insurers and the legal profession, it takes some time to achieve a high-quality end result that can add value to the legal peace of mind of every citizen. The new legal aid insurance is only likely to succeed if it becomes a good product for the seeker.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic808x.u44	Mr Minister, I was shocked by the outcome of the OVB's investigation. Every lawyer must, indeed, have the right to assistance in insurance or the right to assistance through the second-line assistance. Of course, this implies that the seeker is already going to an attorney, which apparently is not always the case. That is also apparent from the research carried out. It is certainly a good thing that this awareness campaign has been included. Insurance may also have a task to share the content better with the people who pay their insurance annually but do not really know what they are paying for. I am certainly learning from the study that the new legal aid insurance, which will be broader, can only be useful if one knows its content. I hope with you, in any case, that this beautiful product will be stimulated by the judge.
