ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u1	Muriel Gerkens, Chair: Colleagues, all the ministers we have asked for are present at this meeting, which we all looked forward to. Finally, it will allow us to discuss the report submitted by the AFSCA to Minister Ducrame. It is true that we did not have much time to examine the documents annexed to that report. We will work in the following way. I will first give the floor to Minister Ducrame to introduce the various points of the debate. I'll let him organize with MM. Diricks and Dochy, from AFSCA, for this presentation. We will also ask the Minister of Health, Mrs De Block, if she wishes to provide further information. We will also give the floor to Mr Geens, Minister of Justice. Then we will give you the floor to ask your questions and make your remarks. In this way, an exchange will take place between our guests and the members of the attached committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u2	Madam President, I thank the Ministers for their presence. However, I wonder about Minister Peeters, as RTBF has come up with very worrying information that, on the eve of the search, Veviba had regularized several contracts that seemed to be at least contentious, if not illegal. What about it? During our last meeting, I heard that Minister Peeters would come this afternoon. Then I realized it was canceled. So I wanted to see with you if we couldn't plan on working with Mr. Peeters. I admit that his powers are somewhat out of step with the issues of health control and economic fraud. Whatever! I would therefore like to know how the order of business is organised and what about the presence of Mr Peeters. Muriel Gerkens, president: Mr Nollet, I will give you a first answer, and then Mr Delizée will complete my speech. It was planned that Minister Peeters would come to answer the questions at the meeting of the Economy Committee this afternoon. This meeting has been cancelled, as well as the meeting of the Health Committee, since we knew that our discussions this morning were going to spill over on schedule. Mr Delizée and I have agreed today. The difficulty lies in the fact that the matter is already substantial this morning: three ministers, one report and a whole series of elements are involved. Since our last meeting, disturbing, disturbing elements have emerged in the news. We must analyse the situation, but Mr Delizée and I do not want to spend half an hour, an hour organising the work. There are several possibilities. In particular, we could invite Mr Peeters after this morning's meeting or at another time, depending on the evolution of the debates and their duration. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: Madam and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on Monday, when we scheduled this meeting, we imagined, from experience, following the last fipronil crisis in particular, that it would take a little time. We have received a lot of material, given the volume of the annexes to the report. This morning, we welcome three ministers and representatives of the Federal Food Chain Security Agency (FCSA). Initially, the Economy Committee had planned a series of general questions to be put to Minister Peeters. When we scheduled the meeting today, we thought that at 14.00 or 14.30 hours, we might not have finished. But the news is changing every day. We do not change the agenda during the night or in the morning because there is a new element. Of course, we can make contacts. As the content is still quite important, it would be good if we could hear from both the government and the AFSCA representatives on the report. We could make an informal contact to see if Mr Peeters can join us later this afternoon. We don't really have a precise idea of the timing in which we could operate. It is true that we have added the attached questions. Questions are addressed to Mr Peeters. They concern, of course, the Veviba case. A priori, the government can answer these questions, but we will see when it will be at the end of the discussion of the report, which is the most consistent item on our agenda. In order not to be too long before I begin, I propose to hear the presentation of the report and to have this discussion. We can make informal contact and see if Mr Peeters can join us later today. Muriel Gerkens, Chairperson: Mr Geens asked for the floor. In view of the changes in the agenda, I assume that it is to tell us that Mr Peeters has given him the opportunity to answer the questions previously asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u3	Madam President, Mr President, I am mandated to answer the questions addressed to the Minister for the Economy, our dear colleague Kris Peeters. As I have the floor, there is another question I would like to ask you. I heard you canceled all the other commissions. I am very interested in the Committee on Justice, because I am being asked some interesting questions, particularly with regard to the issue that concerns us here. Should I have her canceled, too, if I can hear you well, this afternoon? That would be boring for the commissioners. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: I suggest that we take stock at noon. We will see where we will be and we will organise the continuation of the work in office, according to which we may have to bring in today, if it is worth it, or if we organize ourselves chronologically to deal with these issues today with the ministers present and to schedule the follow-up with the ministers concerned as soon as possible, either later in the day or another day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u4	Madam President, I am just asking that in your contact with Mr Peeters, you insist that he come today. The information disclosed by RTBF is serious. We want answers. However, I assume that this is not included in the elements of the answer that Mr Geens has at his disposal. If he can continue the debate with us on this aspect, no problem. But what came out yesterday at RTBF is serious enough to be part of a global debate. I don't see myself asking Mr. Ducrame about that. Although, if he can answer on that part, I have no problem. But I already have enough other questions to do with him. In your contact, could you insist that he come late in the morning or early in the afternoon? Muriel Gerkens, Chair: It will be the afternoon. It's probably not gonna be in the morning. I now give the floor to Minister Ducrame.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u5	Madam President, for the sake of transparency, on 12 March I committed myself to communicating to Parliament all the documents that would be provided to me by the BFSA in the context of the report I asked for on the Veviba affair from 7 March. As I said last Monday, I received this report on Thursday 15 March 2018. As you have seen, this is a voluminous report, a note of ten pages, ten ring folders and one signataire. It was important to ensure in advance that the communication of these documents to the Chamber did not violate the secret of the investigation. As I said on Monday, it was an important precaution, requested by the parish. This wanted to get to know the whole report, the corpus and the annexes in advance. In addition to respect for the fundamental principle of the separation of powers, this démarche was mainly aimed at avoiding any procedural error. This would enable Veviba to escape the legal proceedings currently under way. I undertook to submit this report to you in committee on Monday at 16:00. This has also happened because I found it legitimate that all documents should be delivered immediately to Parliament as soon as the judicial authorities had given their consent. Of course, we're not here to do the judicial investigation again. That is the work of the judicial authorities, of the investigating judge and of the prosecutor. Today's meeting will allow us to take stock of three points: the attitude of the BFSA in this file, the conclusion that I draw from it as a guardian minister and the possible improvements for the future. At the outset, I would like to recall an essential element. The AFSCA, our federal food security agency, is a tool to preserve and develop. Food security is paramount. I read the press early in the morning. I would like to go back to a number of things that have been said and denounce a series of false information that has been communicated throughout the week. It is wrong to say that the Agency's budgetary resources are diminishing. Indeed, if we combine the allocation and the own revenue, we can see that the means of the latter increase. I quote the figures: 171,427,000 euros in 2015, 167,380,000 euros in 2016, 176,417,000 euros in 2017. That is the truth about the numbers. These are the Agency's budgetary means. I repeat that if we combine staffing and own revenue, we see an increase. That's indisputable! Today we have a debate on the AFSCA report, which is a working tool. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that you can't throw the baby away with the bath water. We cannot break an indispensable tool for the consumer, for small operators, for the "small producers" unit that has developed, for our exports. Again, at the outset, I would like to make a point. We do not have to oppose food security and economic development naturally. Both go hand in hand. In this context, I would also like to remind those who have the short memory that this "export cell", an international service that will have contacts with the agencies of third countries to establish the link on the standards of these countries so that Belgian products can be exported, exists since the Agency has existed, since the 2000s. Who was the minister responsible when this international unit was set up? It was Magda Aelvoet, a member of Groen who, when she was responsible for setting up the AFSCA, also implemented an international unit, an international service, considering that food security and economic development should not be opposed, even if she should not think so as a member of Groen. Why? Because the self-supply ratio in our meat market is naturally important. These are 162 % for beef, 252% for pigmeat and 192 % for poultry. If we want our agricultural sector, our primary sector at the level of animal husbandry to survive and not put the key under the mat, do not yet see more closed farms, agricultural jobs destroyed; if we want to support this sector, we will continue, as Magda Aelvoet wanted, to work also on this "export cell". Madam President, Mr President, I would like to point out that it is essential to bear in mind that the person responsible for this issue is obviously the fraudster. I hear a number of things about the person in charge. My goal, as well as that of the government in the case we are facing, is to take steps to improve the tool and raise our level of food security. It is not because rules and principles exist that people must be nailed to the pillori, regardless of the vindiction that could be fed by one or the other. Our goal is to learn a number of lessons through audits and to produce improvements. A parliament is not the jungle, nor is it a people's court! We will stick to that principle. Controls are the guarantee of compliance with food safety standards. It is imperative that they be efficient, efficient, responsive and proactive. As I said, this report will help us. It's a work tool. We need to analyze it together to determine the shortcomings, the flaws. And here, of course, we will need to improve the system. I say this from the outset: this report reinforces me in my initial analysis. As I said on 12 March, there is a need for two objective and independent audits of AFSCA. One, on the Agency's control policy and the management of controls; the other, on its structure and operation. On 16 March the Council of Ministers decided to set up these audits. They will have to be closed by the summer and the reforms will be produced in the wake. Then I come to the findings of the BFSA in this report. It is important that the BFSA recognises difficulties, that it recognises the importance of the Agency's audit and that it recognises a certain number of findings that go in that direction. For example, the Agency recognises that it sees limits in the way in which it cooperates with the judicial authorities once a dossier is examined. This is a first point that will have to be examined by the audit. Another finding made by the BFSA itself is the need to optimise the coordination between the various competent administrations in the future. This will also have to be discussed in the context of the audit which will take place shortly. Finally, the BFSA stresses the importance of better coordinating the following three issues: communication, technical and scientific elements and legal and judicial aspects. The Agency recognises this. I quote: 'It goes without saying that there is room for improvement here'. I would like to mention this last observation because it corresponds to my initial analysis. All this does not alter the fact that I draw a number of conclusions from this report. I come to some of the findings. It is important that the AFSCA, in the context of training, plays its role. The articulation of its administrative action with the ongoing judicial investigations obviously raises some questions. These will be analysed. As is well known, the National Investigation Unit prepares a report on 6 October 2016 on the basis of evidence found in Kosovo. The question in this context is as follows. Should not the information contained in this initial PV have been better exploited by DG Control? Should it not have provided this information to the local control units that are directly under its responsibility, in order to carry out, in consultation with the judicial authorities, in-depth checks on the Veviba site? I have no hesitation - as I have already said, both in committee and in plenary - in answering this question is yes. Yes, in my view, the AFSCA could have acted by exploiting the administrative prerogatives that remained its own even after the commencement of the investigation. On this aspect, I will not enter into sterile polemics that I see coming to life. It is a form of media ping-pong between administrations and between each other to designate scapegoats. I do not think it serves the consumer or the sector. A priori, it does not serve anyone, and above all, it does not contribute to building solutions that need to be implemented in order to improve the functioning. On the other hand, in my view, there is a clear need for the AFSCA and the judicial authorities to define and clarify together a number of points, so that the Agency can be more proactive and use in the future all the levers in its possession, in consultation with the judicial authorities, and that the AFSCA is also not afraid to thwart the project or the judicial investigation. There is a need for progress in this area. A meeting is scheduled this week. We were able to exchange and work on this in full cooperation with my colleague, Koen Geens, so that a meeting could be organised between the College of Prosecutors General and the Agency, in order to lay the foundations for better cooperation between judicial and administrative authorities. As well, the Agency's audit will focus heavily on this aspect. We see it, it's crucial. I come to a second conclusion, which, in my view, must strengthen, together with the competent police, judicial and administrative authorities, the policy of prosecuting fraud, such as that relating to the Veviba dossier. I believe that, more than ever, we must ensure that all actors on the ground can agree on the modalities for a more proactive criminal policy in the fight against food security fraud. The meeting that we have been working to organize between the AFSCA and the College of Attorneys General is certainly part of a dynamic that, in my view, must be prolonged. Third point, self-control. As you know, self-control stems from a European obligation. This mechanism has already demonstrated that it can bring real added value to food security. It was this mechanism, for example, which, in the fipronil file, had made it possible to detect fraud. However, once the information had been collected in Kosovo, a question arose. Should the Agency not have adapted its frequency of checks on the Veviba company, at least at the cutting plant and KF level? The cutting plant had a low frequency due to the existence of an approved self-checking system. As a reminder, different control frequencies are distinguished: low frequencies, with four checks per year (one overall check and three follow-up checks), average frequencies (eight checks per year) and high frequencies (sixteen checks per year). In this context and on the basis of these findings, should the AFSCA not have increased its frequency of controls in order to deepen them? From my point of view, the answer is yes. The AFSCA did not increase its control frequency, either in 2016 or 2017. Let's also say, the controls have taken place. Some actors said that AFSCA would no longer have controlled. That's not true. You were able to see this in the documents that were transmitted to you. In 2016, an overall control was carried out by the AFSCA as well as two follow-up checks, mainly based on the hygiene and infrastructure components. An expanded follow-up check was carried out at night by an Agency task force. It is also seen in the documents that have been communicated to you. In 2017, the Agency carried out four checks, namely an overall check carried out under the control plan, two follow-up checks carried out by mission managers and an expanded follow-up check carried out by the AFSCA. Monitoring controls are important and intensive but are limited to infrastructure control, installation control and hygiene control. At no time did the AFSCA increase its control frequency. In view of the information available, I believe that should have been the case. The audit will allow us, again, a thorough analysis of the internal functioning of the Agency on this aspect. It will then allow us to identify avenues for reform. In the future, since information such as those collected in Kosovo is brought to the attention of the AFSCA, we will need to have a system that allows us to react instantly and send the momentum from the National Investigation Unit or the Directorate-General for Controls directly to the local control units. The fourth point concerns control of exports. Of course, we need to analyse why non-compliant products were not identified when they received the export certificate. As a reminder, those who deliver the certificate must carry out on-the-spot checks on the products intended for export. In addition, why did the BFSA not use its prerogatives to ban the company from exporting further after the PV from Kosovo? This is because it is provided for in the Royal Decree of 10 November 2005 on fees laid down in Article 5 of the Law of 9 December 2004 on the financing of the BFSA. This royal decision made it possible for the competent LCE, in consultation with the Import-Export cell, to suspend export for the operators concerned. Here again we must take stock of the arrangements for improving this type of control in the future. This applies to imports and exports and the audit will contribute to this. Fifth point: the adaptation of the UNE (National Investigation Unit) to this type of fraud. Of course, the UNE did not initiate a more in-depth control investigation. That's a fact. Is the UNE sufficiently equipped, sufficiently armed? There were no reductions in staff at the UNE level. But I intend, in the context of the audit that we are putting in place with regard to controls - particularly in view of the increase in the number of cases to be dealt with by UNE - to ensure that we take stock of the needs in this area. The question of the UNE's prerogatives in investigations, its access to IT platforms allowing it to participate in joint cross-border team intervention, its access to Europol and Eurojust data, should be assessed. Where appropriate, the audit that we are going to carry out will have to be carried out, which will allow us to draw up a number of recommendations that will produce the necessary reforms. Sixth point. The question of controls as such. In my view, as part of the lessons we can learn, the AFSCA must in the future, in a number of cases, increase the frequency of control when it receives information, elements of suspicion of fraud in the head of operators. This should not exempt us from a more comprehensive reflection on the way controls are carried out today. As you may have noticed in the documents submitted in the context of the report which I have asked for, there are some legitimate questions: do these checks last long enough? Today, it turns out that a controller or an inspector cannot conduct his control for more than eight hours, for a global check. In addition, the limit is set at four hours for follow-up checks. In addition, the controller or inspector conducting the inspection is often alone. Is only one person sufficient to carry out checks in large structures given the limited timing? This question deserves to be asked and will be raised in the context of the audit. Are the controls sufficiently effective? Should we not foresee new types of controls depending on the size of the operator or on the suspicions of such operator? Should we not, in the long term, provide for new arrangements for more in-depth controls in the light of situations? Today, when we want to step up controls, we increase their frequency but not their duration. As part of the deepening of these controls, is there sufficient opportunity for the controllers to strengthen them? Currently, several tonnes of meat are being examined as part of the overall controls. Should we not, beyond the increase in frequency, think about a category of control, without necessarily going back to the possibility at UNE level of conducting investigations? Shouldn't we put in place a formula that will allow us, in some cases, to deepen the controls? I think so. This question will be raised in the context of the audit. Madam President, Mr President, what conclusions can we draw at this stage? The AFSCA delivered its analysis of the file. It is useful to discuss it. Today, the AFSCA continues to work and operate beyond the debate on improving the system in the context of the summer audits and the reforms that I will come to present to you. The decision of the Council of Ministers will allow us to move forward. We cannot afford to expect food security, which is an overly important issue. We are currently working on the terms of reference for the government-agreed audit. The recommendations that will emerge in the summer will enable us to bring about very concrete reforms to raise our level of food security. I am determined to put them into practice very quickly. It is about preserving the health of the consumer. We have a good tool compared to other European situations, but it is a matter of raising our level and looking at the flaws in front of us to build the necessary progress. This improvement work is also being carried out for those involved in the meat sector, with small artisans, small breeders, small traders, small restorers who are not guilty of fraud suspected in the head of an industrialist. That is why I was already allowing myself this Monday, Madam President, to recall how essential it was, in terms of the meat sector, not to commit any amalgam between Veviba and the other links in this sector, which intend to continue their work with probity, to provide quality products and – as I wish – to take over the meat market. From my point of view, this one is not open enough. Small breeders do not have sufficient capacity for action in the way the meat market develops up to the point of sale. It will therefore be a matter of making progress in this area. As I have indicated, in addition to the reforms of the AFSCA that we wish to undertake, I am currently consulting several players in the sector and others. Since last week, contacts have been made with the Agrofront. We have received several proposals from them. I also want to listen to them about the controls. In other words, in line with the terms of reference that I am in the process of setting up with a view to organising the audits, I also intend to seek the views of the Boerenbond and the FWA on the improvement of the control policy in order to be more attentive to small producers. I say this from the outset: in the light of the situation, I expect these measures to relieve small craftsmen and producers and put more pressure on certain industrialists. This is one of the announced objectives of the forthcoming reform. I come to another element on which we are going to work. We still have a number of meetings planned this week with stakeholders: Agrofront, Horeca, distribution and consumer associations. The remarks made in relation to traceability in the Head of Test-Achats, for example, are elements of reflection and reform that I will also make. On the one hand, there are a number of reforms in relation to the AFSCA and, on the other hand, a number of reforms to relieve small producers and determine what can be done in terms of traceability. Basically, it can't last any longer. Here is a label – enlarged – that is located on the back of a number of meat packages that are sold at the distribution. How can the consumer find himself there? How can he understand, on the basis of such a label, the information to which he is entitled. It is clear that one of the projects that we are going to open, together with the colleagues responsible at government level, is also to ensure that there is more transparency for the consumer on products linked to the meat sector. Today, it's unreadable. Today, the consumer does not have enough information about where the meat came from and where it was cut. As you can see, it is a number of symbols that do not speak to the consumer. Together with distribution actors, consumer protection associations such as Test-Achats and representatives of agricultural organisations, I will ensure that consumers are more readable. The consumer must have more rights than he buys, puts on his plate and eats. Also, in addition to the consultation of the sectors that are in progress, and although I am obviously aware that the AFSCA is working, that it is working, the AFSCA will be reformed, but we are not going to improvise. The elements relating to deficits and faults must of course be objected to. That is why the time we are taking to audit is the time it takes to objective these flaws and deficits. We'll take it. It'll be short. We will have the recommendations for the summer and we will reform. But until then, I have asked AFSCA to put in place an additional programme to strengthen unannounced controls in the KFs of slaughterhouses and cutting plants across the country. In total, more than a thousand companies – 1,063, to be precise – will be subject to additional monitoring per quarter. This concerns 106 slaughterhouses. This concerns 479 cutting plants. This concerns 478 refrigerators. There will therefore be several thousand additional checks on the meat sector. That, Madam President, is the number of issues that I want to see introduced into the audits. And I say it with great openness: I believe that the work we have to do must be carried out collectively. I will therefore take note of a number of remarks made by parliamentarians in order to introduce certain aspects that may be raised by Parliament. I will integrate, if necessary and according to the accuracy of a number of analyses, these points raised – by the majority or the opposition – into the audits that I am currently in the process of putting in place to give us sufficient reform capacity. Thank you. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: In the organization of business, I propose to give the floor to the other two ministers. We will then ask the AFSCA representative to elaborate on the elements of the report he wishes. Mrs De Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u6	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm once again, even after the Agency's report has been informed, that the results of the microbial analyses are the perfect illustration to confirm that our legislation creates the correct limitative framework. After all, the results are fully in line with the expected results based on the theoretical risk assessment carried out by the Agency, which we also tested from the point of view of public health. As regards frozen meat samples, the report transmitted by the Agency shows that all samples were found to comply with food safety requirements. This was also to be expected on the basis of the theoretical risk analysis. In addition to frozen meat samples were also taken from the cutting sites. Before everything else, I need to give you a good description of how these samples were taken. They are not samples taken on meat from Veviba in Bastogne, where the findings were made; after all, that meat was no longer available. They do not include samples from processed meat intended for consumption. However, the analyses were carried out on samples of meat situated around the knife wound and therefore by definition category 3 meat is not intended for human consumption. The samples were taken in another slaughterhouse of the Verbist group. The theoretical analysis, dating from 11 March, on the evaluation of the risks associated with the unauthorised use of meat from cutting the stitching sites, showed that, because the knife crosses the skin barrier, micro-organisms that live on the skin can be introduced from there into the meat. If such samples are analysed, it was therefore expected that a presence of microbial organisms such as Escherichia coli and listeria could be detected in a number of samples. This can also be explained by the analogy with the theoretical risk assessment. These analyses thus confirm the theoretical analysis that a certain percentage of stab wound samples have been colonised with listeria. So that wasn't a surprise. The minced meat containing possible stabbing-place meat and the steertails belonging to category 3 originating from Veviba Bastogne, which had entered the food distribution chain, were the subject of a recall by the food agency. This meat was removed from the market. I would also like to point out that public health has not been achieved, however, given the data obtained by the surveillance system of the Scientific Institute of Public Health (SPH). This body reviews the situation on an ongoing basis. In recent times, we have not seen any increase in food-related infections, either globally or in the province of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u7	Madam President, I do not have much to add. I prefer to answer the question rather than give a presentation on the interventions of justice. Members of your committees will easily understand that the prosecution is a completely independent body. I'm just the interface between this one and the commission. I did not participate in the survey, nor did I take initiatives in one direction or the other. In the same vein, to a greater extent, the investigating judge is part of the seat and is therefore completely independent. I had the honour last week in the Committee on Justice to answer some of the questions raised by Mr Van Hecke, Mr Lambrecht and Mr Lijnen in connection with this history. I have tried to underline two things clearly at the time. On the one hand, that the cooperation between the Food Agency and Justice went well according to circumstances and that precisely the jointly prepared search on 28 February 2018 allowed to establish a series of facts that would not have been suspected without that search. It is precisely those facts that give rise to this meeting and to the audits that will take place. In the end, therefore, cooperation has produced a very good result. On the other hand, as far as the timing of cooperation is concerned, I do not think it is necessary to go back to what one and the other say about it. If you have any questions, I can always go into them in detail, but as long as there was only a risk of fraud, there was no urgency. It is only at a time when public health and the danger to public health are being discussed that there is urgency, and this has not been demonstrated before the searches have taken place. These are the two most important elements of the answers I gave in Parliament last week and I would like to remind you of them. The legislation in this area is well known to you. Article 454 of the Criminal Code on Public Health Risk calls for immediate action, while article 500 on fraud does not require such action to the same extent. I also think – I can explain more about this, if you wish – that the secrecy of the investigation is an important thing, but that it is always possible for agencies and inspections of any kind to continue their regular activities, provided that this does not interfere with an investigation, if necessary, in coordination with the judicial authorities. That is what I wanted to submit to you with regard to the few elements. A posteriori, in other words, after the facts of 28 February, the judicial authorities and the AFSCA have shown that they know very well how to cooperate. Indeed, the prosecutor's office got along wonderfully with the representatives of the AFSCA and the members of Mr.Ducarme's cabinet. Thus, for example, the meeting of the College of Attorneys General and the AFSCA will take place as soon as possible, i.e., it seems to me, next Thursday, to better identify who can do what and when. If, at any time during your work, you wish me to give you an explanation of very concrete dates and elements, I am at your disposal, as the Prosecutor's Office has provided me with the information on this subject, always in accordance with the secrecy of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u8	Mr President, members of the committee, ministers, everyone has been given the summary note. I will briefly go over them with some explanations and clarifications. The note, as we have presented it, is a note drawn up on the questions raised by the Minister. Its first aim is to explain and we are also trying to formulate a number of slopes which should be better equipped in the future, especially in the area of cooperation with Justice. In the introduction we gave a general picture of the approach of the BFSA. I think it should be clear to everyone that we understand that there are a lot of questions about this case and that answers must also be given. I think it is also clear to everyone from the file that the extent and nature of the fraud found in the search was a particularly unpleasant surprise for the BFSA. As I said earlier, we are working and we are trying to do so in complete serenity. We work a lot with the Justice Department and we work well with the Justice Department. But if we work together with the Justice Department, there are a number of aspects that we must also take into account. It is therefore that in the note we also initially drew attention to the importance of the secret of the investigation, for the context in which the BFSA cooperates with the Justice Department. I think that this has been explained to us repeatedly and that we have been reminded of our obligations with regard to the secret of that investigation. We are also aware of the importance of this. It's there to find the truth. And it's taken very seriously by the Justice Department. We are made clear, and I quote: "The BFSA and the NOE are prohibited from communicating to the Minister of Agriculture, without the permission of the Public Prosecutor, what matters are under investigation or judicial investigation." In cases where we have so far asked for permission to explain our course of action, we have not received one. I, too, was clearly reminded last summer of the secret of the investigation. And so, indeed, there remains a field of tension between keeping the secret of the investigation and transparency. We are convinced that the announced audits can indeed improve the functioning and cooperation. We have also indicated pistes ourselves and pointed out the need to include that relationship between the judicial services and the BFSA in the audit, and that is also effective. I think it should be clear that all the employees of the BFSA are making every effort to get the maximum out of their work. The inspection programme is ready and clearly published on the Internet. It shows how we are trying, with the resources and the people at our disposal, to carry out as many checks as possible in all sectors with the appropriate frequency. In a number of cases, this frequency is laid down by the legislator. The second part of the note explains the investigations and inspections. First and foremost, we have explained how actions have taken place between the discovery of the cargo in Kosovo and the search. In my opinion, the file shows very clearly that the BFSA has not been idle. We have made a great deal of efforts to ensure that actions have been taken in relation to Veviba. It must be clear that there must always be a distinction between the initial investigation into economic fraud and the additional actions in the cutting plant, where several serious findings have been made. Secondly, after the search, when the nature of the fraud and its consequences became apparent, we took immediate action. In our approach we immediately started tracing the products, we informed consumers, we started investigations in other sites of the group, a risk assessment has been carried out and additional samples have been taken. The Minister has just explained the conclusions of those samples. We had to read in the press that we would not have used the TRACES report in time, but I can only confirm that TRACES was used at the right time, at the time we found that there was a problem with the safety of the products, to inform the Member States about the facts. Indeed, the history and findings of Veviba showed that there were no other indications of fraud. It should also be noted that the BFSA was not the only organisation that carried out checks on the site. No fraud had been detected in those other checks. Even if the opposite can be concluded from a summary table, it is not true that we would have carried out fewer checks between 2016 and 2017. We did indeed implement the control plan in 2016 and 2017, three times according to the control plan in 2016 and four times in 2017. The number of so-called first-line controls in the holding has thus not been reduced. For the rest, we have added a number of elements to the file. We need to be clear about this. We have explained in the file how the control frequencies are recorded. I must point out that some of these monitoring frequencies have been recorded at KB. As has been mentioned on several occasions, cooperation with Justice is and remains extremely important. We have also been asked whether there has been vigorous action. If I can refer to the annual report, I can certainly answer it with certainty. We haven't compiled the figures for 2017. In 2016 we issued almost 16 000 warnings, almost 7 000 PVs have been drawn up and over 1 500 seizures have been carried out. I could go on like this, but I will stick to that, because it is a good figure. For the slaughterhouse sector, we have given details in Annex 2.4B. We have taken a lot of action there. In 2016, there were five files relating to a refusal of recognition, two of which were final. In 2017, there were also four files in which a withdrawal of recognition was initiated and one recognition was definitively suspended. So we will continue to take action against companies that take steps with regard to regulation and hygiene. We have also suspended the validation of the auto-control system at companies, with financial implications. We have therefore also taken action in this area. Moreover, we have not only carried out controls, we have also introduced an action plan with additional efforts on top of all the tasks that we already have, in order to bring about a remedy in that sector. In any case, my conclusion is that we are in a position to guarantee supervision with the first-line controls. On the other hand, we will not always be able to expose fraudsters, who are always there and in all sectors. There are hundreds of examples of problems or fraud where special intervention was required to detect fraud. As I said, our agency carries out checks in a first line with a great deal of energy and motivation. In addition, there is the National Investigation Unit to investigate the more difficult files. That investigation unit shall conduct the detection and repression of fraud and the use of prohibited substances. The regular LCEs can't do that. Therefore, given its complexity, we entrust such files to that service. We haven't been idle with that agency. If we look at that evolution from 2013 to 2016, we've gone from 176 files to 562 files on fraud investigations. We have participated in a lot of road checks and we have done a lot of other activities. In the context of these activities, we produced no less than 189 PVs in 2016. The agency therefore includes the LCEs, where the first-line controls are organised, and the national search unit, which can carry out a number of investigations itself. Even our national investigative unit needs a judicial investigation in a number of cases and calls on the legal services in cooperation with Justice to do so. We must not forget that the establishment of certain facts in the case is only due to a large-scale scheme, a large-scale anti-fraud operation of a magnitude far beyond first-line controls. With that, we are on the same wavelength as Attorney General De Valkeneer, who says the following today in Le Soir. "If the investigating judge had contented himself with a nice little search of Veviba, with four members of the PJ and three officials of the AFSCA, he would have found nothing at all. It is because we put the means down by descending with sixty people that we discovered all the offences previously unknown, such as the bleeding wounds used in the preparation of minced". When we talk about detecting and combating fraud, it should be clear to everyone that we need controls far beyond the first-line controls. For example, because of the way in which the action in question could be set up, employees could enter the company on all sides and thus establish that there was indeed fraud in the cutting plant. I have to tell you that our people were very excited that they caught the fraudsters in that large-scale action in the act. Questions have also been asked about the possibility of checking in the cold stores. We must not underestimate the difficulty for our staff to carry out such checks. It is not evident that working at a limited space is at 25°C. The proof of this is that it took two days to check with different people only 10% of the number of products. It is clear, therefore, that only good cooperation with the Justice Department will allow a decisive approach to fraud in the food chain. This cooperation has already been developed in the past. There is a welfare office, which should facilitate the relationship and coordination. I would also like to draw your attention to the way and framework in which our staff work, both from the LCE and from the National Investigation Unit. It's not an interpretation of its own. I'm free to quote the welfare office here. Those documents are also in the file, by the way. I quote: "As soon as a file is transferred to the parquet, the leadership moves to the parquet. The public prosecutor therefore bears the responsibility for the search. Sometimes the King's Attorney can claim an investigative judge. It must intervene if certain coercive measures are necessary. However, even if an investigating judge is requested, the King's Attorney remains responsible for the leadership and authority of the investigation. If an investigating judge is appointed, he is in charge of the investigation and decides which police department or special inspection department is responsible for further investigation. During the judicial investigation, and we have demonstrated this in our chronology, consultations are held with the various departments concerned. I would like to draw particular attention to one point. It is common practice for normal administrative supervision checks to continue, which has happened, because it would even raise suspicion of the operator should this not be the case. It is also important that planning and organisation take into account the existence of the judicial investigation, so that this cannot be thwarted in any way. I think the timeline clearly indicates what we asked for. From the philosophy explained above, it is perfectly understandable. As an agency, when a judicial investigation is under way, we do not want to create suspicion by additional or special controls; on the other hand, we wanted a swift, decisive action and hoped that the search for the house itself would be carried out. It is not possible for a police officer, if there is a suspect in a case, to check repeatedly, which could raise a certain suspicion. [[It is within this framework that we have worked, a framework that has grown historically.]] If this framework needs to evolve and be clarified, we are asking for new lines to be drawn up with all those involved. It must be clear to everyone that there was no laxity at stake, or that we would have let everything go. Let there be no doubt about it: our objective in the fight against fraud in general, and in this dossier, it is true that the fraudsters are still getting their hands on it. Let there be no doubt that if safety were to be compromised, we would take the necessary measures. Proof: In this file, we immediately started organizing the recall and recalling the products that might be contaminated. As mentioned above, the BFSA is open to improving its working methods and the audits are certainly an important opportunity for this. We will certainly learn from this and adjust the procedures and practices, as we have always done in the past. Continuous improvement remains our guiding principle and we continue to work to curb fraud in all possible ways and in cooperation with all services, especially with the police and the judiciary. We have just heard a number of things about the agency's controls and possible strengthening of them. Let us be clear: if there is a need to strengthen controls, the agency will, of course, support them. It is also clear to everyone: if the resources were to be provided, we would also use them to organise our controls as effectively as possible. I would like to hear that it is not the intention to drop that instrument. I would like to hear that we must continue to work, and we will, because we remain an organisation with many people committed to doing their job. It is no problem that there will be two audits. We will cooperate in this. For us, it is also a very good thing that these audits are organised quickly. It is clear that we are working in a new context, in which communication is important, in which technical and legislative elements play a part, as well as legal and judicial elements. The Agency must also comply with the law. It is up to the executive to make statements about this, and it has done so. There's the KB on the control inspections. I can only conclude that we have tried to apply all the provisions of that Royal Decree to the letter. It is important to realise that the Agency cannot simply take additional action: we must respect the rules. Not only do we respect the rules, but in many cases we also take additional action. However, in the case of first-line controls, it is clear that the rules determine how we should act. If that regulation needs to be adapted, the better, then we will certainly apply it. I think it is good to realise that, if we are to be presented with this, we want to participate in these audits and improve our controls. However, I must stress that we have always tried to do what we had to do, with the frequencies laid down in a royal decree and with calculation methods that were clear and clear. Of course, controls must be carried out and we shall do so. However, we always do it in a way that cannot be rubbed at us. In the past, it has happened on a number of occasions that, in the case of the agency's actions, operators turned very quickly to the judicial authorities to nullify our actions. Fortunately, in many cases, we have been able to continue our actions. There are indeed the prerogatives of the National Investigation Unit, which are clear and clear. However, this unit will always ensure that its investigations run in parallel and that its investigations do not in any way interfere with ongoing judicial investigations. As far as the hour and duration of checks are concerned, our people are also doing everything possible to do their job well. However, they also respect what is in the regulations. If, in the future, this will be reflected in the audit report, the regulation will have to be adapted in order to carry out better, longer and more frequent controls, then we will, of course, do so. However, the framework in which we have to work is clear and clear. We have also tried to demonstrate this in our analysis. We do hope that, within the framework of that audit, we will be able to provide additional explanations on all the actions we have carried out as soon as possible. There may be discussions about how we work, but our budgets are what they are. You can consult them. In the past, we have respected, followed and implemented all the directives on budgetary measures, with an impact on the people who are active in the field. Of course, we want to contribute to reform. We will apply them, we will be very loyal to them, but I think that the BFSA also deserves due respect for all the work that has been done in the past, the work that we do on a daily basis and the work that we will do in the future. In any case, I would like to thank all the staff for their commitment and dedication. I am proud of what they do every day, not for themselves, but for the service of society. We will also continue to work in all possible ways and in cooperation with all services, especially police and justice, to curb fraud. Jean-Marc Delizée, Chair: I thank the Ministers and Mr Diricks for their presentation. We are now starting the discussion with colleagues who wish to speak. There are several questions attached. The first concerns Minister Peeters, who is not present at the moment. Maybe Mr. Geens can answer in his place. I propose to give the floor to all the groups for a discussion on this report and on the presentations that have been made. If colleagues have questions, they can either repeat their content in their speech, or ask them afterwards if there are any outstanding items or if some questions have more specific subject-matters. In principle, the speaking time of questions is not the same as in a general discussion such as that we are going to have now. We have two opposition presidents here. There are questions from the opposition. I propose that we proceed according to the order of the groups. All groups will have the floor and speaking time is not limited. I propose to work in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u9	No problem. Jean-Marc Delizée, Chair: On Monday, the agenda was presented differently. Monday, the front door was the questions because we didn't have a report. Today, we have a report and a presentation from the government and the AFSCA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u10	[[...]] Jean-Marc Delizée, Chair: Who wishes to speak in the discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u11	Madam President, Mr President, I would like to thank the speakers, the ministers and Mr Diricks of the BFSA for their explanations. It's become quite a sandwich. I'm trying to give you a few things chronologically. Minister De Block has confirmed that the normative framework, which aims to protect our public health, is correct and that the BFSA has done its job. That is a very important observation. In addition, I heard Minister Ducarme say that he wants to retain the BFSA as an instrument. That is an important announcement. However, it would be good to see how we can reform it, how we can improve its functioning and where we can work differently with the BFSA in the interests of food safety, especially in the context of as much transparency as possible. First of all, I would like to stress that fraud within the food chain is not the norm. Fraud is the exception. People cheat on the hood of those who do their job well. They are cheating for profit or because they do not want to take sound and responsible action. This is done at the expense of food safety, but in this case, above all, at the expense of the image of the entire sector of farmers and farmers who are doing their job well. They surround their animals with great care, with the sole aim that we all get a decent and clean piece of quality meat on our plate. The responsibility for this whole matter lies with the fraudster, not with the government, nor with the federal authorities. That too is something we must keep in mind. The checks must be made as watertight as possible. The meshes of the net must be tightly drawn. However, we must not be under any illusions; the human spirit is very resourceful. Fraud will therefore be of all times, but of course we must do everything we can to prevent it. Minister Ducarme, I hear you have a lot of questions yourself. The audits will hopefully make a lot of sense. I believe that we are all curiously and with great interest awaiting the results of the audits. Another point on which Minister Ducarme pointed is labelling. Last week in plenary I pointed out that Carrefour will introduce blockchain technology for a number of products. I would once again urge the general introduction, or at least the promotion, of blockchain technology. In this way, a product can be followed through the label from the very beginning to the plate. All information about the origin and all links of the chain are brought together, so that you can find the complete route of a product on the label. I think this is a very important point. More could perhaps have been done in the area of economic fraud, even if it is easy to talk afterwards. The audits will have to be clarified. It is important because there is also a strong control of the political government over the company Veviba. I'm talking about subsidies, loans and ownership. This is, of course, a matter for the Walloon Parliament. It is clear throughout this case that some players in the food chain are taking a walk with what can and may be done. They flinch for nothing or no one. We can also find a piece of responsibility in the control powers in slaughterhouses and meat processing plants. This is a very fragmented matter. In terms of food safety, the BFSA is responsible for the supervision of the carcasses, and the FPS Economy is responsible for the correct application of the presentation and classification. In addition to the control authorities, there are also a number of interprofessional agreements between slaughterhouses and cattle farmers. In fact, we are in favour of an integrated control approach between the various bodies, so that at the end of the whole process we have a consistent end result. Mr President, are there any short-term solutions that can reduce the fragmentation of control powers in the meat sector and, in particular, in the slaughterhouse world? What's the timing? How will we use these solutions in the short term? Last month, an interprofessional agreement on transparency in slaughterhouses was signed. I am addressing Minister Ducarme with the question of how far it is going to go. Can this agreement enter into force in the short term? On 23 March, you will meet with the sector, with Agrofront, to discuss this too. What will you be able to report to the sector on 23 March, pending the audits? I would also like to address Mr Diricks of the BFSA, with the question of which, in his view, are the dangers of hypotheizing a judicial investigation by making additional investigations. With regard to the judicial part of the matter, is there any question as to whether the court could have taken any other initiatives to perhaps speed up the work of bringing this matter to light more quickly? We are, of course, waiting for the Geens report on the Limburg parquet. We're looking forward to that report. For now, I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u12	Mrs Gantois, it is the report of the Supreme Court of Justice; there is absolutely no report - Genes. Moreover, it is not about Limburg but about Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u13	Minister Ducrame, at the first sitting of this Veviba commission, you asked yourself, I quote: "Why did the judge take more than a year and a half to launch the search?" You added: "The fact that we have formed a civil party will allow us to demand answers". Minister Ducrame and the Minister of Justice, the fact is that we have a first answer to this question today when we look at the file. The Federal Judicial Police of the Province of Luxembourg has only two police officers who are responsible for all investigations relating to public health and the environment. These investigators have to work on many files in parallel and this lack of staff leads to an increase in the length of the investigations. As regards the progress of the cases before the Court, until four years ago the province of Luxembourg had six investigating judges. Currently, there are only four cases for an ever-increasing number of cases. That is what part of this file tells us. This case still shows that the search had to be postponed because of a lack of police officers in the province of Luxembourg – will it also be necessary to ask Minister Jambon to come to this commission? – and that the multidisciplinary cell "hormones", now Pharma & Food crime Unit, is understaffed. Its workforce has increased from eight to three full-time equivalents. Why did the judge take more than a year and a half to launch his search? Much of the answer is clearly to be found in the fiscal austerity measures that this government is imposing on the justice system and the police apparatus. Should I add that food security is no longer included in the 2016-2019 national security plan? Should I add that food security is no longer a priority objective of this government? How, then, is it surprising that justice took so long to get off the ground? In addition to this deficit in the judicial pillar, under the political responsibility of Mr Geens, there is another deficit, that of the administrative pillar, under the responsibility of Minister Ducrame. First, the federal allocation to the PSAB declined by $22 million between 2014 and 2017. I'll come back. The AFSCA revenue, which includes the federal allocation and operator contribution, decreased by 18 million euros between 2014 and 2016. Mr. Ducarme says they've grown. Yes, in 2017, an increase occurred. It was EUR 5 million compared to 2015. However, Minister, it should be recalled that an indexation that includes this increase has also taken place. It was Mr Diricks who told us the penultimate time: the Agency's workforce has evolved. He meant that they had diminished! Between 2014 and 2018, they increased from 1,161 full-time equivalents to 1,062 full-time equivalents, or 100 full-time equivalents less. Diricks adds: "The logical consequence is the decrease in the number of missions compared to 2015. This indicates that we have reached the limit of what could be offset by efficiency gains." I quote the AFSCA 2016 report because we are not yet in possession of the 2017 report. According to Mr.Diricks, and according to a document that he provided to us, as of March 14, 2018, 219 active fraud cases in progress are currently being processed by 17 full-time equivalents available within the UNE. For information purposes, the equivalent of the UNE in the Netherlands, the NVWA, has 125 full-time equivalents with extensive policing skills, whether in terms of surveillance, wiretapping or enforcement. The Netherlands therefore has a survey staff of between seven and eight times as large as Belgium for a comparable territory. This is something that can be challenging. The government has imposed drastic economic measures on federal institutions and is now paying for them. The AFSCA is dependent on under-staffed justice itself and, in these circumstances, how can it be astonished to learn so late, in the aftermath, the outbreak of food scandals? Mr Ducrame, in addition to this staffing problem, which is also a budgetary problem, is another, which is more of a policy-oriented problem. At the first sitting, on 12 March, I was already asking myself: "What is the point of promoting Belgian blue white in the Walloon Region or missions abroad, for example in China, to boast the quality of our meat if we are not able to guarantee full respect for the most basic hygiene standards?" This is one of the main issues or conclusions that emerge from the report since you have confused AFSCA with AWEX or APAQW. You have reoriented part of the Agency's workforce, in principle devoted to health protection, towards external trade, while the promotion of our agriculture is already the prerogative of our Regions. In concrete terms, you went to promote Belgian beef in China with the AFSCA on one side and the Veviba export manager on the other. But with what result, with what credibility today? Last January, the head of Veviba was pleased that, after fifteen years of efforts, two letters of intent had finally been signed with a view to exporting to China. But today, Minister, this work has lost all credibility because we have not ensured what is essential, namely public health. This is all the more unacceptable given that the sector is also involved in the Agency's funding and may be affected by the current negative return. It is even symptomatic that two large groups, Delhaize and Colruyt, did not even wait for AFSCA injunctions to remove Veviba products from their shelves. Mr Diricks, what added value does AFSCA offer to the sector under these conditions? This gender confusion would never have happened if the AFSCA had remained under the supervision of the Minister of Health, as originally. I have already recalled this at the previous meeting: this focus on export would have been unthinkable if guardianship had remained at Health. My political group is calling for AFSCA's supervision to be withdrawn from the Minister of Agriculture and for it to return as soon as possible to health. There is a credibility problem with the political orientations set by this government. Mr Ducrame, at the first meeting of the committee on Veviba, you asked yourself, I quote: "Why didn't the AFSCA intensify the controls in view of the information collected between October 2016 and February 2018?" You felt that the contract had not been fully completed since, after being informed of the Kosovar file, AFSCA should have conducted offensive checks at Veviba Bastogne. I agree that there are many outstanding issues in this area, and I am specifically addressing the boss of the AFSCA, Mr.Diricks. Even today, I cannot understand that the Agency, which controls the slaughterhouse on a daily basis, which sends inspectors up to eight times a year to the cutting plant, was unable to make this scandal public earlier. I wonder about the line of defence of the AFSCA which says, on the one hand, that if there had been during the investigation – the critical period of 18 months – any indication of the actual existence of a risk to the safety of the food chain, measures would have been taken immediately. Do I have to hear, "And the minister would have been contacted"? On the other hand, she says that the evidence in the court file clearly shows that in 2016 Veviba sold non-compliant products as a result of falsifications, while stating that she cannot tell the minister any more, under penalty of violating the secrecy of the investigation. Was there not enough signals in the 18 months to alert Minister Ducrame earlier? Moreover, the report refers to other minutes concerning Veviba and the Verbist Group, one of which was sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office in September 2017. Several investigations concerning the same operator should trigger an alarm signal, it seems to me, and the firm should be informed of this, especially since it is an important actor. So these are my questions to Mr Diricks. Perhaps the most interesting question for me today, when reading this report, is for Mr Ducrame. It concerns supervision by its agency's labour office. Wasn't this oversight too soft, especially as a result of the fipronil case? Indeed, it was possible to read very clear instructions from the judicial authority – from the prosecutor's office – to the AFSCA that the Agency should not take an expanded supervisory initiative in the event of a competition with a judicial procedure. Mr Diricks quoted the Advocate General. I'll take up two interesting passages. The Advocate General tells us: "When an investigating judge is appointed, the direction of the investigation rests with him and it is up to him to decide which police department or special inspection department he wants to carry out the investigation. During the course of the investigation, regular consultations are held with the various departments concerned. It is customary for normal controls within the framework of administrative supervision to be maintained, as this could give rise to the operator's mistrust, if this were not the case." He adds: "Once the investigating judge is in charge, the investigating judge decides who does what duty of investigation. You do not lose your supervisory powers, which are vested in you by law, but during the exercise of these powers, it is ensured, in consultation, that the investigation remains guaranteed". In addition, several meetings between the justice system and the AFSCA investigation unit took place during the period between the filing of the complaint in Kosovo and the search this month. As a reminder, a meeting was held in December 2016, five more in 2017 and one more in 2018, before the action postponed last February for lack of police strength. In this regard, I would like to know what has been said during the dialogue meetings between the investigation unit and the justice system. Has UNE requested to speed up judicial proceedings? Did she seek authority to inform Minister Ducrame? If so, what was the response of the judicial pillar? That's a question I'm asking you, Mr. Minister of Justice and Mr. Director of AFSCA. Similarly, it was found that the AFSCA was seeking a challenge to the classical approach as described. I would remind you that a case such as Veviba's shows the limits. Therefore, we need to rethink how we are going to deal with investigations into fraud of this kind. "That's why we're asking that the AFSCA's announced audit also take these aspects into account," you said, Mr. Diricks. On the other hand, we have still not seen what clear guidelines have been given by Minister Ducrame's office since the fipronil crisis. I've already called him back on two occasions. What clear guidelines, Minister: either to put back on the profession this classic model of articulation between an administrative procedure and a judicial procedure, or to give firm instructions to your administration to request – possibly in a systematic way – the consent of the competent magistrate to inform you of the investigations carried out? What have we observed on the contrary? In November 2017, Minister Ducrame, you rejected an application for an audit of the AFSCA. I interpret it as an indication that, for you, the fipronil crisis had not revealed any problems in terms of the articulation between the administrative and judicial components. In addition, you did not provide any answers to my colleague Jean-Marc Delizée's question during the last plenary session, who wanted to know what was the situation with regard to the follow-up to the memorandum of understanding announced after the fipronil crisis and intended to specify the modalities for exchange and communication between the AFSCA and your firm. Therefore, the main question that emerges for me today, Mr.Ducarme, is the following. What concrete initiatives have you taken since the fipronil crisis to reorganise the procedure in case of judicialisation, and not to weaken the administrative approach? This is an essential question, to which we expect clear and precise answers. As the appropriate minister, it was your responsibility. What did you do? This entire period coincides with a reorganization within your firm following the departure of your deputy chief of staff, who was competent. It came from the Health FPS. But in your office, how many people are involved in public health and food chain safety? This issue is also essential. Finally, I would like to recall my request from the sitting on 12 March. Can you give me a list of the measures you have taken since the fipronil crisis to measure progress? Finally, as I said, the judicial pillar and the administrative pillar have suffered a weakening following the austerity measures of the Michel government. A counterproductive focus has been made on export aid to the detriment of public health. Maybe the supervision of your firm was too weak. Minister Ducrame will make that clear. But these elements converge on one observation: there is today a serious problem of credibility due to the political and budgetary guidelines adopted by this government. That is why we asked, at the last sitting, that the tutelage on the AFSCA be withdrawn from Mr.Ducarme and entrusted to a government commissioner, to restore confidence to the consumer, to the sector, to farmers and abroad. This is all the more necessary since we are probably not at the end of our surprises in this case. I'm just pointing out a few things. We received a new revelation last week that normal meat was sold as organic meat, just to increase Verbist's margins. We had the revelation, a few days ago, of a new scandal, to the Vanlommel companies, which were also sending outdated meat to Kosovo. Today it is reported that the leader of Euro-IDA, the client company of Veviba and Vanlommel in Kosovo, threatened journalists with death: "I'm going to put you in pieces with an axe". The report that was sent to us contains numerous minutes of violations written over the period 2006-2018. I'm not going to lengthen the point. There is this note by Mr Diricks which tells us: "The evidence highlighted in the judicial record clearly shows that in 2016 Veviba sold non-compliant products due to falsifications". There are these new 2016-2018 infringement minutes that concern the Verbist group's establishments. There is an example among dozens, ladies and gentlemen. "The heads, organs and tongues contaminated with'steak' have already been sold and delivered without informing them that they may have been contaminated." There is still the whole economic and social aspect of the case, the use of secondment, the restrictions placed by the company on the formation of a trade union delegation, the suspicion of economic fraud within the Veviba establishment. Finally, there is this in the press today. Veviba's main subcontractor would have – I remain on the conditional – regularized workers the day before the search. More than 70 workers were reported to ONSS the day before or the day before the search on 28 February, which tends to reveal the idea that there would have been leaks or even collusion between the Belgian administration and the company now known as Mafia. Mr. Ducrame, that's the term you used. The revelations about suspicions of social fraud within Veviba give new dimensions to the case. Like my colleague, we are asking for Minister Peeters to be in committee this Wednesday to shed all light on this gloomy matter. I think we are not yet at the end of our surprises in this case. Mr Geens, I would have liked to know how these different facets are now being brought together in the judicial sphere. Have all the minutes concerning the Verbist group been gathered in the hands of a single investigating judge or does there remain a segmentation depending on whether it is Bastogne, Rochefort or Izegem? I would also have liked to know the overlaps between the various facets, at the level of the AFSCA, during the 18 months at issue. When Mr. Diricks began his speech on March 12, he said: "As a result of cost-saving measures, the AFSCA had to reorganize its external services. They are no longer provincial control units but local units spread over a larger territory." Mr Ducrame, given the importance of the Verbist Group, which represents 30% of the meat processing sector in Belgium, were the various elements collected and compared within the AFSCA? If so, how? We still have a number of related questions, but I do not want to overburden my colleagues' speaking time. Indeed, we could talk about the rotation of the controllers, which Mr. Diricks has given us extensively. We could address the "abattoir plan" or international notifications or frozen meat. Frozen meat is indeed a major concern for public health, Ms. De Block. I am thinking of the samples taken from frozen meat, which has been blocked at the Veviba freezing establishment since 2001. After all this time, do these meats pose no health risk? Has there been an opinion of the Scientific Committee on the subject? We could talk about customer complaints, about Test-Achats, about the questions to Minister Peeters who will come earlier. I will stop there because I assume that many more debates will still have to be held.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u14	Mr President, Madam President, if we did some kind of retroact in relation to the course of our committee's work, we could say that we had, on Monday last week, a first committee meeting at which we had seen a number of facts. At the request of some, it was planned to organize a supplementary committee on Friday of the same week. It must be noted that since we could not have the report in time, the meeting had to be postponed until Monday morning of this week. I simply note that between Monday morning and today we have indeed been able to obtain this report. This time we can discuss it on the basis of the intervention of the various ministers. I think, and it is important to remind him, that Monday morning, unless I'm mistaken, we all lost our time! Minister Ducrame told us that the report would be available at the end of the afternoon. We have received it; we have been able to push it forward and work today on this problem of fraud of an international scale, and more specifically of a fraudster. I would like to remind you, because so far I have not heard much, whether it is Monday or today. The name of this fraudster is still not regularly quoted: Verbist, unless I am mistaken. For the moment, I hear regularly, and more specifically on the part of the opposition, the desire to take the lead in this whole story, on the one hand, to the government and, on the other, to the AFSCA. Let us not be misguided, ladies and gentlemen. Who's the fraudster? Is it the government, is it the AFSCA or is it Verbist, through Veviba? This political recovery - it must be said as it is - is not correct. It is not correct for public opinion. It is obviously easy to link the dioxin crisis with the crisis we are facing here. I also intend to refer to the problem of fipronil. We are, of course, in completely different cases. I'll explain it to myself. To my knowledge, it was the AFSCA that brought to light the problem of fipronil. I'm not here to defend the Agency. I'm just saying that we need to put things in context. It was also the AFSCA which, through its external unit, made it possible to inform Europe of this scandal. The conclusions of the work we did here in committee were that, on this issue, the AFSCA had done its work. I will repeat it often: let us not deceive our targets! This is indeed an international fraud, through Verbist, which must be called into question. In relation to the intervention of some ministers, I would like to point out, and for me, it is fundamental, that the people have the right to all the light in this matter. Citizens are the first to be involved, especially if food security concerns had been identified. It was directly confirmed to us by the Minister of Health that there was no concern at this level. That is why I was talking about political instrumentalisation earlier. I understand that we can all, ladies and gentlemen, have different ideas and approaches, but, as a general rule, the figures are not misleading. When I hear that the Agency's budgetary resources have been drastically reduced, I am happy to hear, on the basis of precise figures - I am not going to repeat them but the truth of the figures is not misleading - that it is false information. I think very sincerely, and I do not refer specifically to the case here, that too often we use false figures and false information against the outside world and the press to scare the public. This has been the case in several cases. We could go through them together again. It is interesting to note that when the information has been given, the false information is relayed by the press which takes it as cash. We can't blame him. This information, on the other hand, scares the population. However, the opposite path is never taken, that is, when we have to contradict these figures, we realize that the public does not have access to this information. That's where things don't go anymore. Perhaps I would like to go back to what has been said and what has been written in the AFSCA report. If I read it correctly, it was indeed found to be dysfunctional or, in any case, points to be improved. These could be summarized in a comprehensive way into three elements: communication, technical and security aspects, relations between the inspection service and the judicial services. I mean relationships, especially collaboration. At this level, however, a number of points need to be clarified. I would like to know – this is a question that I am asking officially – where is the objective element that will enable us to determine how far this cooperation between the inspection service and the judicial service can go so that in the future either can use the arguments of the judicial procedure to avoid doing anything. A number of elements – no one will say otherwise – must therefore be clarified and analysed. In addition, recommendations will need to be made to ensure that this situation is no longer present. I have taken note of the desire to clarify a number of points in order to be more proactive. Indeed, in this kind of case, proactivity is really fundamental. Indeed, if we are not proactive, by definition, it leaves the field open to fraud. I come back to what I have said on several occasions: whoever wants to fraud will do so, if we are not proactive. On the other hand, I have heard that the AFSCA should have been more alert and increased control frequencies in 2016 and 2017 because a number of elements could have justified it. As far as I'm concerned, I have a question that goes hand in hand, but more in depth. I am speaking here more specifically to Mr Diricks. Do you feel that it is the frequency of the checks that should have been increased or that the checks should have been carried out much more thoroughly within the current frequency? It is the relevance and effectiveness of the control that is involved here rather than the number of controls. If you double the frequency of controls and efficiency is not improved, by definition, everyone will waste their time. My question therefore relates to a more in-depth control based on a number of more precise criteria based on the experience gained from other fraud problems that we have faced. We discover fraud and we have a number of criteria on which we will be able to base ourselves by saying: that is why the fraud took place. Will we be able, in the future, to use the current situation and on the basis of predefined criteria, to solve the problem? That is an extremely precise question. This is probably one of the fundamental elements of the problem we find ourselves in. We talked about export certificates. One element which emerged was that these export licences concerned a Belgian trade mark and that this must be taken into account. Moreover, the government is criticized for the presence of Veviba in China. I'm sorry, but I know there may be a cause and effect link in our case. What I mean is that in China, an official mission had actually been organized; some companies were accompanying it, others were not. The on-site companies had not specifically attended the official meetings but, on the other hand, they accounted for two thirds of the Belgian pigmeat market. That's not what we're talking about. So I think it's too easy to incriminate the government because we organized a mission to China and Vietnam and because Veviba was accompanying it. Furthermore, to my knowledge, we were not supposed to have the information, since a judicial investigation was under way and this judicial investigation contained the information. It is therefore a little easy in terms of accusation to make such accusations. I also go back to initiatives that have been taken by the government and that are important. I am thinking, among other things, of these two external audits that will allow us to "reform" the AFSCA; that is what I hear. I do not know whether this is really a fundamental reform that needs to be done. As I said, in some cases, the AFSCA works and it has demonstrated that it is working properly. In other cases, such as this one, there are obviously a number of malfunctions. It is therefore not a reform or a complete change. The conclusions of these two audits will have to be drawn and a number of changes will have to be made in the operation, both in the approach, namely the political functioning, and in the functioning of the control. I come back to what I was saying. Is it the frequency or depth of the controls that needs to be reformed? That's a question I'm leaving open. I would like to recall, because it is the information I had received – and this may not have been sufficiently said here – that other actions have been undertaken by the government, a government that is too prone to draw directly. We always shoot the pianist, but still it must be the right pianist! Clearly, here, the government has also wanted to implement a number of reforms to relieve small producers. Because we have a big producer who is guilty of international fraud and unfortunately there is no longer a sufficient tendency to talk about all the producers who do not fraud. And they're the ones we need to help. I will even go further in the reasoning: it is the big producer who has deceived, if we manage to define exactly the nature of the frauds, which must be punished. I wonder – this is a question that I ask directly to the government – whether it is possible, when we have defined the nature of this fraud, and above all the sanction that will follow, if this sanction – if it is financial – could not be used to help small producers or, in any case, those who do not. This would probably be an element that would allow everyone to demonstrate that those who do their job properly must be rewarded, and those who fraud must be imprisoned. In the reforms, for small producers, if I have understood correctly, there is a question of a year without any increase in social contributions, a recognition of the sectors of activity concerned as "sectors in crisis", a grouping of requests for contributions to ensure uniform processing of applications and the introduction of an additional programme of unannounced checks for just over a thousand companies. I don't want to be much longer because a lot of things have been said. I would like to stress the relevance of certain elements. I also want to draw the attention of my opposition colleagues to the fact that we can always do more and better. I think we will say that we can do more and better than ever before, which is easy. Because we are confronted with the current situation, we say: "Oh yes, if we had known, we would have done more and better!" It's easy to say a posteriori. But I would like to point out that in the case of fraud, the real fraudster, on a large scale, if he wants to fraud, knowing the system in which we are currently operating, will always be able to do so. Whoever wants to cheat will do it every time. It is "our" work to prevent or minimize cases of fraud. But it's too easy to say a posteriori: "There was only one..." that's not right! I really want to insist on this because whoever wants to circumvent the rules – and the concern is that these rules are known, of course; we know how the controls are carried out – knows how many will be. That is why I insist, since the producers know that, on the idea of going towards systematically unannounced controls. Is it feasible or not? I have heard that there is a will in this regard and I believe that it will be absolutely necessary to do so. I conclude by saying – and I come back to the idea – that the fraudster must be charged to help all producers who do their job well to continue doing so. Finally, I would also like to see that, at the end of this committee, and certainly with the information we will have through external audits, we can reassure the consumer and defend the idea that meat is healthy in Belgium, because ultimately that is what is fundamental. I will therefore conclude by asking the government to recall the communication that, at present, there is no problem with food security.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u15	It's the third time we've come together for the Veviba file, and I hope the third time is the right time. The first time we were all bewildered, angry and full of incomprehension about what we had heard from the press. We were also angry, because barely six months after the fipronil crisis we were all here again because of another scandal in our food sector. The second committee meeting, I believe, was a measure of nothing. We had asked for a report, but that could not yet be released. I therefore think it was very little point to come together. Without a proper report, I do not think that a good debate is possible either. Now we have finally received the requested report from the BFSA. I hope we can get an answer to a lot of questions today. Like many of our colleagues, I have many questions and we must insist on transparency. At the same time, I hope that we can have a serene debate. No one benefits from a wells-nothing between the court and the BFSA or from a jousting between majority and opposition. I believe that we are not helping either the farmer or the consumer. There will undoubtedly be shortcomings. Afterwards, it is always much easier to describe them than when they are effectively in place. Let us not forget that the only real culprit in the file is the fraud. We hope and trust that the court will give the appropriate consequences. The only real culprit is and remains the fraudster himself, but that does not prevent us from working together to find out more quickly how such frauds can be detected and, above all, how to avoid them. Let us be clear: every case of fraud seems to us to be too many. It is damaging to the whole sector, it is damaging to consumer confidence and it can also harm our health. We absolutely must avoid that. The big question that we had last week and with which we are actually still sitting is how it is possible that Veviba's practices did not come to light earlier during the routine checks in Belgium. Why did labelling fraud come to light in Kosovo, or all places? It is very bizarre that it was not until after the search that 70% of the meat was not conformed and that it could not be established at normal checks. Are the controls not enough? Aren't they efficient enough? There's not enough inspectors going there? Aren't they bold enough? Don't the controls last long enough? There are still a lot of questions that were rightly asked by the Minister. I think it is very good that an audit is being organised. After all, all these questions will undoubtedly not be answered today. All this therefore needs to be investigated. I am also pleased that the BFSA in its report states that it wishes to take a constructive approach to the audit and that it is also open to improvements and suggestions to make future controls more efficient. We all got the report. I suppose we've all read it thoroughly, too. I thank both the Minister and the BFSA for their efforts to make the report available to us as soon as possible. On page 2 of the report it is very clear that the BFSA has deliberately opted for the classic approach, namely for the transfer of the file to the judicial authorities. This means that after the identification of the label fraud in Kosovo, the BFSA has drawn up a CV and sent it to the prosecutor. Even after the finding that ordinary meat was sold as organic meat, a PV was made up and presented to the prosecutor. Meanwhile, the BFSA continued to carry out its routine checks. That is, of course, normal, because if the routine checks had suddenly stopped, it would only create suspicion in the case of the fraudster and would free the fraudster. The normal planned checks were therefore carried out. Nothing more, but nothing less. There was also a lack of clarity on this point. It has been suggested that the controls would have been weakened, but I understand from Mr Diricks' reply that this is not the case and that the planned controls have been carried out effectively. However, I have the same question as Minister Ducarme. Why didn't the BFSA itself carry out its own more thorough investigation, in addition to the judicial investigation, or make an additional raid on the company? After all, the agency is an expert on food control. I still think that's bizarre. If label fraud has already been detected and then biomeat fraud, are these not enough strong elements to increase controls and still do more than what was already planned? Aren't there enough alarms going off? If there are already two types of fraud, does it not think that there are other possibilities for fraud in Verbist? So I have the impression that the BFSA, just like in the fipronil crisis, is hiding behind the judicial investigation. However, the existence of a judicial investigation does not prevent the BFSA from still controlling the company, and even doing so more thoroughly, provided of course that it is aligned with the investigating court. Since the cooperation between the BFSA and the court, as has been said here, is good, I do not think it is a problem to come to that alignment. I therefore agree with the Minister, who states that the BFSA could have done more even after the opening of the judicial investigation. However, I also understand the concern and caution at the BFSA. Additional actions of the BFSA must not, of course, harm the judicial investigation. That is why it is necessary to coordinate with the investigating judge. If this is done, I do not see the problems that this could cause. Mr Diricks, you said that your staff and yourself have recently been repeatedly and explicitly pointed out the need to respect the secret of the investigation. That sentence is in the report and you quoted it, but it is not quite clear to me. Can you explain exactly how that happened and when exactly that happened? I'd like to talk about the controls. The BFSA has simply carried out the planned routine checks. According to the BFSA, there was no need to carry out additional research itself. At the same time, however, the report states that there have been repeated interventions with file managers in order to speed up the investigation. I think that's a little double. On the one hand, you state that the BFSA decided not to carry out any additional research, but on the other hand you are asked to speed up the investigation. On what basis was this acceleration requested? You say that there were no indications that public health was compromised, but yet you are asking for an acceleration. Did you notice that the investigation might not have progressed fast enough? Didn't you take any further action yourself? Can you clarify why you didn't take that into your own hands? You also stated that you intervened with the file managers. The report does not immediately show who the file managers are. You mean the investigating judge? How do these interventions take place: by letter, by telephone or at a meeting you are asking for speedier investigation? In Annex B.1.1 we find a very detailed timeline. This shows that several minutes were prepared, the latest one in December 2016, a report on meat sold as biomeat. The public prosecutor did not receive that report until March 2017. There's three months in between. Why has there been so much time between the preparation of the minutes and their transfer to the public prosecutor's office? Then another three months expire before contact is made with his office at the request of the Attorney General. Then we see in the annex that there have been several consultations between the BFSA and the federal judicial police, sometimes in the presence of the investigating judge. If it is of such great importance, shouldn't the investigating judge always be present? There have been a lot of discussions, as I read in the annex. But what exactly was said? In the end, that takes six months and in the meantime, the fraudster can simply continue to do so, because no additional checks will be started by you. The timeline shows that there have been contacts between the BFSA and the court. The report states that several times there was an explicit intervention by the file managers, but Minister Geens quotes literally the prosecutor-general in his reply in the Justice Committee: "Although the agency was aware of the initiation of a judicial investigation from the outset, it has never again manifested itself at the investigating magistrate to assert that intervention was urgent." I can't match those two quotes. On the one hand, it is said that this has been speeded up several times and, on the other hand, it is said that there have been no speeding-up. I would like to be clear about that. Have there been interventions to speed it up? If so, on what basis? In your view, public health was not compromised, but you yourself did not take any further action. Then we come to the end of the timeline. The search will eventually take place on 28 February, but we have waited until 7 March to withdraw that recognition. That is another week later, when it had already been found in the searches that this was not all right. Why did you wait so long to withdraw that recognition? The BFSA shouldn't ask the investigating judge for permission, should it? Where a serious and imminent danger to public health is identified, such recognition may be withdrawn. Then why didn't that happen sooner? This is not a reproach to the ministers either, because they themselves were informed on 6 and 7 March and then it went quickly. Those were my questions for the BFSA. Then I have a few questions for Secretary Ducarme. Thank you for the clarification on the budgets. There was a great deal of uncertainty about this. The report says that the BFSA says there are fewer staff. There has been a phasing-out, but I think that almost all public authorities have serious staff cuts. We only have the figures of full-time equivalents. How many inspectors are fewer? It is important to know what type of staff has been saved. I assume efficiency exercises have also been made, so I'd like to get a view on that. I would like to clarify that the budgets for the BFSA have not fallen, but rather have increased. A practical question concerns the control of biomeat. It is not clear to me who needs to check whether meat meets the requirements for biomeat when it is effectively labelled biomeat. Should the BFSA do so or is that a regional competence? That brings me to the next point. There are a lot of bodies that have to carry out checks and give qualifications. That's hugely shredded. We need to look at how we can better coordinate this. In one company many inspectors come: one inspects VAT, the other hygiene and another food safety. We must, however, ensure that they do not work side by side. Much more needs to be coordinated. Can anything be done about this in the short term, Minister? Certainly in the long term, measures must be taken to this end. Another aspect concerns the age of the meat. When I heard through the press that there was meat of 11 years old, I thought at first that I had not understood correctly. Eleven years is huge, the same age as my daughter. It is incomprehensible that 11-year-old meat can still be sold and exported for consumption, but apparently there are no general guidelines on how long meat may be kept. Shouldn't we think about that? Are there directives in other countries, both inside and outside Europe? That is something we need to consider. I also think this is practical: if meat has been in the refrigerator for 11 years, then there are physical differences. It can be seen from the packaging, from the labels. If you just keep a label from a store, the ink will disappear after a few weeks, let alone with labels of 11 years old. They look different anyway. Haven't the inspectors seen that physically before? It's probably a stock of the company. Is it not in the accounts that this meat stays there for so long and suddenly disappears? How come they haven't been able to trace that faster? Is there not also a kind of central database of labels, which makes it possible to trace very well where the meat is? In any case, we must consider guidelines on the age of the meat and how long it may be kept. Finally, I would like to talk about the sector, which is extremely affected by this fraud case. That is terrible for the farmers, who are already having a hard time doing their best every day, in a correct way. Minister Ducarme, you have announced that you will postpone the payment of social contributions and that you will consider whether the sector can be recognised as a sector in crisis. Can you explain more about the state of play of this measure, Minister? Who will be able to rely on it: the whole beef sector, supermarkets and other links in the chain? Who else will you discuss this with? This fraud is absolutely unacceptable. We must do everything we can to support the sector affected as well as possible. We must do everything we can to avoid this in the future. We must also do everything we can to restore and maintain confidence in our Belgian beef. I therefore urge the Minister to take measures to restore that confidence. Thank you for being here, for being able to meet so quickly and for the efforts that have been made to bring the report here. We look forward to the audit. That will be an important document. We hope that we will be able to debate this quickly and to implement possible reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u16	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I can only endorse the previous speaker. A few weeks ago, we felt a lot of incomprehension and anger. Last week, I underlined in plenary that this is a distasteful feeling for us. Although public health was not at risk, it was good, and that was also the only point of light in this crisis: our food security, our food safety, the quality of our food, has been in real danger. Quality meat, healthy food on our plate is essential. It is not just a question of when public health is compromised. We must also dare to watch over 100 percent guarantee of fair, quality food. To reassure consumers, but also to reassure our customers abroad is the essence here. As has already been said, the only real people responsible for this crisis are the fraudsters themselves. The process of the rogue actor Veviba must be made, not that of the whole sector. We are therefore fully counting on the court to judge and punish Veviba. It is clear, as the Minister has also stressed, that the rest of the sector is the victim of this fraud and, in particular, of small producers. I am glad that you pay particular attention to this, Minister, because this is on top of the existing European crisis in cattle farming. Let me give you an example with regard to small producers. I heard this week the story of a small farmer whose carcasses happen to be in the now sealed slaughter. That meat, which is healthy and high quality, hangs there now and he can't get it back and can't do anything with it. He wants to know if he'll see his money. This amounts to EUR 15,000, which is a particularly large sum for this small farmer. We must also be aware of this, Minister. I am therefore pleased that you will continue to do so, together with Agrofront. Minister Ducarme, you also said for us an important statement that the BFSA should be preserved as an instrument and as an organisation; that we should not throw away the child with the bath water and that we should develop this organisation further. One of my important questions in this regard was the lack of clarity that was created about the budget. In the media it was stated that the controls could not be optimally carried out because of the budget reduction and that this crisis could not be mastered. You have made it quite clear that the funds have even increased. So that was an important answer. This crisis needs to be tackled decisively in order to reduce its negative impact on our exports. You also mentioned our export cell. You have underlined its importance. The export cell was installed at the time by Mrs Aelvoet and was reinforced by your predecessor, Mr Borsus, in response to the Russian embargo on fruit and milk. Ladies and gentlemen, this sector has a very high degree of self-sufficiency due to our intensive agriculture. However, we are also dependent on exports. It is therefore important to ensure the safety and good quality of our products in foreign markets. Minister, as you specifically said today, the timing of this audit of the BFSA was also very important. The audit examines how the control policy should be implemented, what management we need to develop, and how the BFSA can be strengthened. You have put forward a clear timing, for which I am grateful. After all, it is important that we do not give the impression that things are being put under the carpet or on the long track. So we can only be happy with this particular timing, because although spring starts today, summer is already at hand. It is also very important to implement the reforms immediately in the summer. What is essential, and that is just the ugly feeling that we have had over the last few days, is the uncertainty that there was about the way the BFSA has worked and the way the court proceedings have been conducted. I have asked many times about the protocol and the agreements between the BFSA and the court. What are the existing protocols? How can we ensure that they can be improved in the future? The fact that a meeting will be scheduled next week with the Attorney's College, thus also with the Justice Department and the BFSA, is important. Above all, we must learn from this crisis, we must look forward and ensure that this cannot happen in the future. There has already been talk of controls. Why weren't the checks increased after the file was handed over to the public prosecutor? I think that the answer to Mr Thiéry's question is a very relevant statement: should we ask ourselves whether it makes sense to increase controls in the future? Or, in particular, does it make sense to think more efficiently about how to give more depth to the controls, so that other findings can actually be made? In this connection, Mr Dierick asked a pertinent question, namely how the controls have not been increased. We have just received a reply from Mr Diricks. That answer was that during a regular check-up the same results cannot be achieved as those achieved with a major raid, with a search warrant whereby 40, 50 or 60 people can be used at once. In our common sense, that's true. The question is this: if we cannot find out what we should be tracking at the time of routine checks, then perhaps something is wrong with our routine checks. That is just the interesting thing about the audit of our controls, in particular that we can think mainly about the way in which we control them. If we have established facts, such as fraud found in Kosovo or such as bio-fraud, we should not only carry out routine checks, but could also effectively increase the controls which do not prevent the judicial investigation, but which can at that time provide us with the information to intervene. I think this is a very important element, Minister, to take along. I would like to hear from the Minister of Justice whether he can explain the gap in the timeline between autumn 2016 and spring 2017. I shall come back to his reply earlier. It was indeed the same answer we received in committee last week. In accordance with the law, the judiciary makes the distinction between cases where public health is at risk and where immediate action is taken, and cases where public health is not at risk, which are not given priority. I think that's dangerous. Colleagues, we need to think about how we deal with this. The fact that no priority is given to dossiers which do not endanger public health is, of course, very bad for the whole sector, for consumers' confidence in the quality of our food. In my view, there is a very large margin for such cases, and it is therefore necessary to evaluate more closely how justice can be done more quickly in future than is the case today in such cases. Finally, we must not throw the child away with the bath water. I am very pleased with the ongoing audits. It is important that we review the recommendations made by Parliament after the dioxin crisis and examine where we stand today, what the spirit of those recommendations was and whether they are still relevant. Perhaps we can also carry out another mid-term in-depth evaluation so that we can say with confidence that our food is safe over the next twenty years and that the BFSA has every means and opportunity to tackle fraud on its own and in cooperation with the court. Fraud is unacceptable, especially if it is committed by one of the larger players in the sector. We have to take it hard. That has two reasons. The sector and the consumer must be protected. Moreover, if we tackle fraud hard, we will send the message to future fraudsters that we will not allow them to be committed, that we will find them and that we will ensure that they are severely punished. With our food safety, with our public health, with the quality of the meat on our plate must not be soldered. Let that be the most important message of all this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u17	Mr President, Minister, Minister, representatives of the Food Agency, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time we have met on this dossier. It is, as several colleagues have said, an important dossier. The fact that we meet regularly on this issue shows how serious and important this matter is. Indeed, it took a year and a half before a search took place at Veviba. During the search, it was found that 133 of the 200 controlled pallets were not suitable for human consumption. The seriousness of the matter is, in my view, sufficiently demonstrated. My colleague Annick Lambrecht apologizes, since she is currently present in the committee dealing with Prince Laurent's dotation, and she cannot be replaced there. My colleague and I have asked a lot of questions from the outset. Last Monday we met and we were promised that we would get the audit report. We have indeed received this, and I would like to thank you for transparency, Minister. However, I believe that further information can be made available to the Chamber. The committee met on 12 March, but then we had to read in the press that meat, not suitable for biomeat, was mixed. We also had to read in the press that a load of 1.5 tonnes of meat was stopped at the Kosovo border in August 2017. In addition, we had to learn from the press that the European Commission has already made comments on the lax inspection by the BFSA. I think it is important that our committee gets this information too. We do not have the European Commission's report. My question is therefore whether you can provide this report to the members of this committee so that we can read the comments of the European Commission. Mr Diricks, on Monday there was information on other cargo problems for Kosovo. How come we didn't get this information on Monday? Why did we have to hear the information through the press? In addition, I would ask you whether or not you can confirm whether there are any other problems. Can you provide us with information on this, or is it intended that we will have to hear it again from the press tomorrow or the day after tomorrow? Mr Diricks, I would like to ask both of you if there are any other cases and if you can provide us with a list of them. If there are no other cases, I would have liked you both to formally confirm that there are no similar problems in other cases. Mr Ducarme, you have not been gentle with the food agency. This shows that you take the subject seriously and that you have looked at it with a critical eye. I'm glad. You've asked pertinent questions. You asked why the Agency did not react immediately. You have indicated that the BFSA was able to respond, despite the fact that a judicial investigation was ongoing. So that didn't happen. You asked why the BFSA did not increase the frequency of the checks and why it did not prohibit exports. These are very pertinent questions, which show that you are looking very critically at the report and that you need to improve the controls and to better protect them. I heard Mr Thiéry and a colleague from CD&V say that we should target the fraudsters. Of course we have to do that, but it is the BFSA that must ensure that we can expose the fraudsters? It is the food agency that must ensure that we can have confidence in the products we buy in the store. This is about a major player and I think confidence in the food agency needs to be restored. After all, we were faced with two crises shortly after each other. Today we do not have the guarantee that the BFSA will check where to check. The most important observation is that both the Minister for Food Safety and the Minister of Justice, as he did last week, confirm today that the Food Agency could have responded and done more. Mr Diricks, after you were told by both ministers that the food agency could have reacted and carried out controls, you reiterated that there was nothing you could do because of the judicial investigation. I look at that with amazement. What is it now? Are the ministers right and could the BFSA have checked and done more, or are you right and continue to say that the BFSA could not have done anything more? I would like to be clear about that. If there is not, if there is miscommunication on both sides and the legislation is misunderstood, there is a chance that there will be files today in which the food agency can do more, even if there is a judicial investigation. So I would like to see that clarified: could you have done something or could you have done nothing? Then I know which one of them is telling the truth. Minister, you say that you will come up with a reform by the summer and that you are prepared to listen: you are going to go on the farm and you want to talk to the Farmers' Union. Minister Ducarme, I would like to ask you not only to speak to the Farmers' Union, because last week an article was published by the Order of Veterinarians in which very critical remarks were made about the checks they are carrying out. If you are planning to improve the control, then the control the veterinarians carry out plays a crucial role in this. Today they indicate that they are given fewer assignments if they carry out a thorough check, that they are underpaid and that they do not receive feedback on the findings they make. We must take that criticism with us, so I sincerely hope that you will invite those people too. Are you willing not only to invite the Farmers' Union? Are you prepared to invite the Order of Veterinary and Small Farmers to listen to their desires and recommendations? In order to do so in all transparency, we need to have the hearings that you intend to hold in the Chamber, so that each member immediately has the information and recommendations that the key players make about the control. Mr Diricks, in the report you say that if the food agency had had any indication during the investigation that there was an effective problem for the safety of the food chain, you would have taken measures. You've established that labels were forged. Is that not a fact that is serious enough to carry out further checks? I ask myself questions about that. The information on the labels is nevertheless crucial. That's what the whole control is about. The Minister has rightly announced today that he wants to develop a system that makes information on the labels more readable so that consumers can control them themselves. Surely we cannot expect the consumer to check everything? That is the main task of the BFSA. The trust must be that the BFSA will verify that all information is correct. If forgery of labels is not a sufficiently burdensome fact for you, what is that so that you would carry out more checks? The report also states that you have certain limits to improve the approach. What are those limits you're colliding with? What recommendations do you have to improve that? Madam Minister, you said that after examining the palettes, it became clear that food safety was not at risk. I fear that no one can rule out the fact that the previous palettes were not in conformity with the legislation either, because palettes leave that company every day. I would not be premature to say that our food safety has never been at risk. No one can guarantee that today. That is why it is so important to know how control is done and how to make it more appropriate. I had another question about the date of storage of frozen meat. Some of my colleagues have also asked that question. If there is no legislation today on how long frozen meat is good, how has that control happened? Were there situations in which controlled frozen meat was not sufficiently high quality so that it had to be withdrawn from the market? I'm looking at the Minister. I think it's important not to let the operators decide that themselves. I think that the government should establish clear rules on the expiry date: how long can meat be frozen and used for human consumption? If there is no regulation today, how does the control take place today and what do you base yourself on? Minister, are you prepared to clarify this as soon as possible and to give a clear deadline? Last but not least, several people have talked about the budgets. Minister, you have given the budget figures for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. You explained that the BFSA works with its own resources and a piece of donation. Are the figures you have given today the amounts or the amounts merged with their own operating resources? If they are combined, I would like to get the split between the dotation and the own operating equipment. On page 9 I read that a hundred people have been working less since 2014 due to savings at the agency. What was the job of those hundred people who no longer work there? Why did the agency have to save? How much? How did the agency take on the tasks of the 100 people who are no longer working there? Minister, you have shown transparency by distributing the report and by calling the committee together, but the work has not yet been completed. It is important that the announced audits are carried out. For the reforms that you want to undertake by summer, it is important to involve the members of the committee in that process, so that we are all aware of the recommendations made and so that we can carry out our parliamentary scrutiny.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u18	I would like to start with a point on which all Commissioners, Mr Thiéry, can agree with you: it is of course the Veviba company – and, behind it, Verbist, as you called it – that is responsible for the scandal of economic fraud and health fraud that goes with it. There is no doubt about that. The fact is that the commission's task today is not to determine responsibility for fraud. I believe that everyone can agree with you that responsibility is there; justice is dealing with it, and fortunately. The mission of these commissions is to understand why our system has not been able to detect fraud. Why did it take so long before the system realized the fraud that was being organised? This is our job today, and that's what I'm going to do, deploring the war wars that we've seen in the press between AFSCA and justice. You have no doubt followed the recent exchanges on this subject, as I have done: the AFSCA saying that it could not do anything when the case was before the courts and the courts saying the opposite and affirming that it has declared it on several occasions to the AFSCA. This is obviously a huge problem when two central players in a control and sanction system do not agree on each other's role. I will try to get out of this war and come to the heart of the concern of the citizens, consumers, who pose a clear, fair and cruel observation: our food security control system has failed. They don't care if it was for the AFSCA or the justice to act. The citizens, the consumers and we, the environmentalists too, consider that the system has failed because it has allowed economic fraud and a system of health fraud to develop within it. When I say "in it", it's not about a small part of the food and agri-food system: it's 30% of the meat market! Does the AFSCA and the government realize the message to the public when, for months and years, the control system is unable to detect economic fraud and health fraud of such magnitude? Colleagues, even within the government, say that we are facing economic fraud and that, I repeat what was said earlier, "health has not been put at risk". That's not true! We have had access to all the documents and I assume that a few colleagues have taken the time to examine them. I will refer to a document: document B.2.3, which is in the annexes, not in the note as such. In the appendices, in the studies of the samples found at the time of the search, it is clearly stated on page 6 that there was E. coli bacteria, which is "considered to be highly pathogenic". The note says that "this is the case which is most associated with serious diseases in man". Who can say it's just economic fraud? Who can say that there was no potential risk to health when, in the notes we were given, we read in the appendix that this is the case that is most associated with serious human diseases? Frankly, I think it is necessary to take advantage of this committee to put the points on the i. Let us stop saying that it is limited to economic fraud! It was also a health fraud, but it was only discovered later! It was only discovered in 2018! I want to ask a question, but I don't think you have the answer! Since when are Belgian and foreign consumers at risk of consuming meat, which includes parts that were not intended for human consumption? For how many months has the control system allowed the spread and sale of products that were dangerous from a health point of view to take place in our food market? Probably for several years! But the system, and that's why it failed, was not able to detect this fundamental risk that was not linked to a secondary actor. I say again, 30% of the meat market! I really invite you to consider this Appendix B 2.3. and page 6. It is there, Minister Ducrame, that we must have the courage to go to the end of the reflection on both causes and remedies. With regard to remedies, you are beginning to evoke ideas for the short term. The others will come with the audit. I would have liked to hear more about the reasons why a system can allow this kind of fraud to unfold on the economic side but also on the health side. And here I am concerned about your reverse and, in any case, your silence on these deep reasons. It's not just meat that's out of date. Our model is also out of date, but today, in your tracks, we don't hear it. It's not just for you, Mr. Ducrame. But you are the competent minister. A week ago and a little more, as we were meeting here, you made other comments. I quote: "The contract has not been fulfilled". The contract has not been completed! Indeed, from the moment it is found today, thanks to the annexes which have been distributed that, for months, meat unfit for "human" consumption of the market has been circulated, bought and consumed by women and men, there is indeed reason to say that the contract, which the device must offer to society and consumers, has not been fulfilled. Other colleagues have already said so, but I do not understand, Mr Diricks, how the AFSCA has not only found it useful but also necessary to increase the number of controls and their quality on the company, as you have had information since October 2016! Again, I refer to the annex that was forwarded to us. When your representative moves to Kosovo, he gives you the information on 3 October 2016: 29 out of 34 pallets were almost unlabeled. But what more do you need to launch a mechanism with, on the one hand, judicial control (you do it in the days that followed) but also and above all immediate administrative control as your role indicates? What's going on in your head at that time to say, "We'll let justice be done"? It is normal for justice to take longer than administrative control. It's normal, if only because of the procedures. How many times have you not intervened, to repeat what Mr Ducarme said, with smaller producers to put seals immediately? In this case, nothing! While 29 out of 34 pallets were almost unlabelled. The inner plastic of these 29 pallets was not labelled. It clearly showed traces of removed labels. I don't understand. I think no supposed citizen can understand why you don't act any more when you have this first-hand information, as part of your administrative role. Moreover, it also appeared in the annexes that in November 2016, you had received new information on economic fraud. In the document we received, the source of this new information is not very precise. There, too, you are not acting, when you then have a bundle of information, not only from Kosovo, but also from elsewhere. In November 2016, AFSCA also received information on the suspicion of economic fraud within the institution. This would be achieved through falsification of the internal traceability of the time. It's one of the two elements. It is also your annexes that give us access to this element. That's not enough for you. The third element is your own internal reflection at AFSCA on how the meat sector, of which Veviba is, with 30% of the market, a major player, considers its role and responsibility in terms of safety and hygiene. You write yourself in your documents, which we have through the documents you have transmitted to us, that the attitude of the meat sector, as you perceive it in the meetings you hold on exports, etc., is nonchalant in the face of hygiene. So you knew who you were dealing with. You knew that you had in front of you an actor who has a nonchalant attitude. It is written in the appendices to your own report and is one of the central players in the scheme. This device has a nonchalant attitude and understands slowly. That's what you're writing. How, when you have the information from Kosovo, the information from November and you know the nonchalant attitude of the sector, do you not act any more? I've read all the documents you've given and I've been flying over the ten blue fardes with their appendices. I don't understand, nor can I explain to anyone who asks me, whether it's the press or other people, why you haven't acted any more. Similarly, there is no explanation at this stage, including on the legal side. Indeed, it is written in your own documents: "AFSCA does not lose its supervisory powers, which are vested in it by law when legal action is brought. The only element is that it must maintain a dialogue." And I hope you keep it! You have always said that your dialogue with justice was good. I have repeated your comments here in August: you have always considered it to be going well with her. Today is the media war. No, I don't! Don't hide behind that. It was your responsibility to preserve this dialogue. You write it yourself in what you describe as the legal framework. For me, it is the question that will remain unexplained and unexplainable in the light of your responsibility. You are not the only ones responsible, let us be clear about this, but I find no explanation. Similarly, I do not understand that you did not immediately inform the European system of your discovery in Kosovo, when you did so this month on the health issue and the question of labelling. Why was this last problem not reported in 2016, when we are at the heart of a mafia system? In such a case, borders do not exist, as it is necessary to inform European countries of this risk because they may also face such difficulties. This is what the European information system serves. This month, you're informing him about labelling, but you didn't do it in 2016. What would it cost you? The fact that the Veviba officials were arrested in Kosovo is very good. You are not revealing something to the company that should have stayed hidden to let justice work, since this company knows that its cargo was destroyed after control and that you went there. You are not revealing anything by mentioning it in the European system. On the other hand, you protect consumers. And that's your role. That is why I do not understand that you have not included this in the European system. Furthermore, Mr.Diricks, why didn't you inform your appropriate minister before March 2018? I repeat, when you were here to deal with the fipronil crisis: "As soon as there is an important element, we warn the supervisory authority, we warn our minister." This can be found on page 41 of the 7 August report. Do you therefore consider that economic fraud involving an actor with 30% of the meat market is not an important element? If the minister had been questioned by his Kosovar colleague, what would he have said, without having that information? I don't understand why you kept this important information for you. You only notified your supervisory authority in March 2018. This is just as incomprehensible as non-information to European colleagues and the general public. This is contrary to what you committed yourself to doing at the time of the fipronil crisis. And if, unfortunately in 2016, you didn't think about it, now that we've been through this fipronil crisis, we realize that perhaps it's necessary to inform the minister about these other major ongoing crises. Have you ever wondered about this need for information? Mr Ducrame, I think that, in your reply or in your answers, you should take up this aspect as well. In a relationship between an administration and its responsible minister, it is not healthy that faced with such a problem, there is no exchange of information. Unfortunately, I know that this is happening in other parliamentary committees these days. The Minister of Defence has not been informed of two extremely important studies. Is there a generalization of this type of dysfunction? Isn't your government completely disconnected from its administration? Aren't things happening everywhere, in all sectors? Don't you let it happen without reacting? It is in this, Mr Ducrame, that I invite you to take up this situation, because you have not been informed. I find that your remarks today do not live up to the scandal in which we are. I call "scandal" not only the Verbist part, of course, the word is almost too weak, but also the fact that our control system was not able to spot what was being played. It's the same thing with fipronil. It's always said it's been fantastic. No! How many months did the industry use this banned product? The word of mouth worked. The debate on fipronil is not repeated here. I'm just doing the parallel. Today, we try to play proud by talking about fipronil, while the situation has lasted for months. The same is true today. We are not yet able to tell us since when this famous meat - the bleeding wound -, not intended for human consumption, is found in minced meat products. We don't know! But it worked for months without the system realizing it. It took a search to find out the fraud. Then some will say, pen to their hat, that it is through justice. What worries me is not to know who would deserve to have the pen, but to know that it could have worked like this for months or even years. It's a matter of concern. I consider that, for the consumer, it is also a scandal. It is for this reason that I find that the word is not confused and that political responsibility is engaged. If the necessary conclusions are not drawn, what confidence can the consumer still have in his control system and in those who carry it? We can see how much the system failed. But political responsibility is also, of course, disengagement. Mr. Ducrame, you have quoted figures. I would like you to quote the 2014 figures as well. Go from 2014 and see the evolutions! Give us the figures for 2014 and then, with me, see the fact that the AFSCA, in its report, is very clear about the 100 full-time equivalents less. More subtly, the AFSCA makes it clear in its appendices that the government no longer makes food security a priority and that it is no longer included in the 2016-2019 national security plan. This is a political responsibility. The crises are increasing and are not among the priorities of the national security plan. Another element further reinforces the problem of political responsibility in this area. Indeed, it is too simple to say that this is the fault of the AFSCA. I am referring here to the diversion of the missions of the AFSCA. It is normal for AFSCA to benefit from a foreign-oriented cell, even if only for its contacts with its colleagues. I am not questioning that. However, when we devolve the mission of the AFSCA by asking it to facilitate the sale, this is a big problem. You used these elements, in the press or elsewhere, when you returned from a visit to Beijing. But this is not the AFSCA job. Of course, it must have international contacts, but it must not engage in this policy. It is well written in the report, it is not we who say it. The AFSCA also writes: "In recent years, as part of the policy notes, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u19	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u20	No! Mr Ducrame, read with me on page 9 of the AFSCA public report: "In recent years, within the framework of the general policy notes of the competent ministers," - you and Mr Borsus - "a great deal of attention has been paid to aspects such as export and the means have been mobilised to that end." This is not a question that dates back to twenty or fifteen years. This question dates back to recent years, Mr. Ducrame. This is your government's responsibility and you will not be able to escape it. You have diverted resources to devote priority to exporting when additional controls were needed. You are responsible for the crisis we are experiencing. Because it's too easy! It is clear today that everyone stands together to calm the game a bit. No! It is written black and white in the annexes to the report. This is one of the reasons why we continue to advocate, more than ever, for guardianship to be managed by Health rather than by Agriculture. If there is one reason why this should be done, that is the case. The hierarchy of priorities, the orientation of means must be consumer protection and not sales aid. This is not the AFSCA job. I'm not saying it should not exist, I'm saying it's not the AFSCA job. It is obvious that your responsibility is engaged in this matter. On the other hand, I would also like to see the question of the privatisation of control over self-control deepened. That's more of a principle I'm talking about here. I will not go into technical detail, but, in my view, it is a sovereign mission, which belongs to the State and must return to the State. This cannot be privatized. I shall now leave the floor to my colleague. Indeed, I still have ten more technical questions to ask, but I will ask them in a second round because they are less related to the assessment of the current situation. In addition, I would like to allow other colleagues to speak in this first round. But I would point out that I have a number of other questions to ask, some of which are addressed to Minister Peeters and others to Minister Ducrame. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: Mr Nollet, if I may, before giving the floor to Mrs Dedry, I shall give the floor to Mr de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u21	Madam and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, after two previous committees, we are indeed talking about this issue of the Veviba scandal and the reaction of the AFSCA, and above all, Mr Minister, the report that we have had the opportunity to consult over the last two days. I believe that the security of the food chain is a fundamental and important step that we must maintain and strengthen. But that does not prevent us from having, with regard to the agency that is the Federal Agency, rather critical comments on how things have happened, how the job has been done. Mr Ducarme, let me tell you that if, at the outset, you mentioned the need for an audit, as I did during the fipronil episode, I immediately overcommitted the need for parliamentary scrutiny. Mr Minister, at the beginning of your speech, ten days ago, you spoke fairly male about "mafia system". I'm talking about Veviba here. These male words, I expected them to be followed by rather tonic and rapid effects. You are proposing today to strengthen controls, to increase unannounced controls, to go faster. This is very good, but it is time to flatten the AFSCA model and take advantage of this audit to organize a profound reform. The audit must be followed by an accompanying committee to ensure that the AFSCA is the actor of tomorrow, which acts with the participation of the operators. When I speak of operators, I am thinking of farmers, consumers, all those who are directly concerned in terms of public health. Minister, you have never answered the question that I have come back to on several occasions, which is the question of the creation of an accompanying committee, which will allow parliamentary scrutiny as a result of this audit. Minister, the situation is serious. You must unite all the forces around this audit so that public health is and remains a priority for tomorrow. It's about our food security. Minister, I am insistently asking you. Let us recall the episode of fipronil and other incidents. It is better to have a plurality of eyes, rather than one's own blindness. I am therefore very much asking you to do this. Secondly, in your intervention this morning, you have, from the outset, contested the fact that the budget of the AFSCA has been reduced. You even claimed that this one had increased. There's probably been indexations. But, Minister, I have a concern when I look at the figures you mentioned earlier. If you go now – as everyone can do – on the AFSCA website, you will see that the numbers are decreasing. So the minister says something and the AFSCA says something else. What is the truth about the Federal Food Chain Security Agency's budget? Mr. Minister or Mr. Diricks, is your site fully up to date? Are the figures final or estimated? In any event, I note that the version is not the same between your numbers, minister, and those of the AFSCA website. I also note that the number of AFSCA staff increased from 1,161 full-time equivalents in 2014 to 1,062 full-time equivalents in 2018. That is the reality of the figures that we were able to discover in the reports that we were allowed to consult. It should also be noted that in the 2018 budget, the AFSCA had requested additional resources for the special investigation unit. Minister, this part is, in my view, not over. We must be able to make clear progress, hence the need for this audit with parliamentary scrutiny. Mr. Minister, I'm on my way. In committee on 25 October 2017, you said: "The budgetary savings that were imposed on the PSAB as well as on all other federal administrations did not have an impact on the functioning and quality of the Agency's controls." Do you think so? After six months, do you find that there has been no impact on the quality of the Agency's controls? In any case, there was some on the quantity of checks. The documents in the binders show this, perhaps with a difficulty of legibility on the type of control. I am not a professional in the sector but there is obviously - I can show you documents or photos of documents - a decrease in the number of checks. Admittedly, this is troubling because the government says, and you repeated it this morning with your fellow ministers, that there was a need to strengthen controls, also unexpectedly. Minister, the third element I would like to discuss with you is the AFSCA itself. Rather, I have the impression, when I read the documents, that by returning to the creative law, knowing the past that has been calling on us for a few months and years now, the AFSCA has remained far too rooted in its processes, in its certainty, in the way it works, in its procedures which, culturally, are implemented and do not require any questioning. Recall that after the fipronil crisis and the writing of a report by the Court of Auditors, the AFSCA preferred to call into question everyone, except itself. Mr Diricks, when we had the first committee on the Veviba crisis, your first reaction was to protect you by saying that the AFSCA carried out the action and the work according to the tracks, in accordance with what has always been done. It is not because what has always been done has probably been done well that we must continue to do the same thing. We have to question ourselves, and the audit is an opportunity to do so. I believe that the public, the political world, the media, are beginning to question this case. The elements highlighted by your report are interesting. It's a shame it was realized so late. I realize I'm loading the AFSCA and I'd like not to put everyone in the same basket. I think that a vast majority, if not all of the people at AFSCA, are doing their job professionally and efficiently. But there is a culture of functioning which, in my opinion, needs to be reviewed. I really call for the accountability of our committee, of the political world, so that we can fundamentally change, cut the functioning of the AFSCA into a new sheet so that we can move forward. Nevertheless, while the report highlights the lack of resources of the Special Investigation Unit, it seems to rely a great deal on the accountability of the actors - and I will return to self-control - but too little on the risk of fraud. Rather, I have the impression that we have kept the way of controlling, but without assessing it sufficiently. It appears that the risk of fraud was far more significant than what we are being told. There are therefore still questions about agro-industry. Again with regard to the procedure and culture of the AFSCA, while it appears that the national investigation unit is indeed its poor parent, there are far more officers assigned to the control and monitoring of self-control. Nevertheless, Minister, another auditor employed by a Veviba client would have identified far more worrying facts than the AFSCA during its controls. We were able to check it in the binders on the top. How can I explain it? Why do other stakeholders report malfunctions? How can I explain it? Is their methodology better? Have there been any contacts between them and you, Mr. Diricks, to see how the procedure could be improved? When reading the binders and the table that you provided in the appendix, it appears that the controls were often carried out by the same agents. Of 185 missions, 131 were conducted by two officers. What is the reason for this lack of rotation? Do you find it normal that more than two thirds of the missions were carried out by the same people? That's troubling. I would have liked to have an answer to this question: are those responsible for internal control of operators sufficiently responsible for fraud? When an operator performs self-control, is it responsible for any problems? Should he warn someone other than his own business? What explains the failure of this point, too? In addition, it appears that the internal risk studies conducted by Veviba in 2017 resulted in three non-compliant results that were not communicated to AFSCA. It's in the farts. Have these studies been conducted as part of the self-control system, yes or no? Is this non-communication the norm when there is a failure? When a problem is discovered during the self-checking process, is there an obligation to communicate it to the PSAB or others? Mr Diricks, you told us at the committee on 12 March that audits are often carried out by third parties who do not come from the agency. Is there not a risk that these controls will be announced in advance? What is the guarantee? When reading the binders, it appears that the sample checks were often carried out by mission officers who are not AFSCA officers. Is it possible that some of these controls were previously announced? Fourthly, I would like to raise the issue of the credibility of self-control among fraudsters. Obviously, people have been found to have defrauded. Mr Thiéry, when there is clearly fraud, the offence must be denounced and it is the justice system that must interfere with it. As far as the operators of the AFSCA are concerned, should they not be asked to warn also the third branch of power, i.e. the legislative power, in view of these problems? In the way in which we are going to work today and in the following weeks, in order to sharpen and retrench the problem of the safety of the food chain, Parliament should, of course, be manoeuvring, in particular to monitor and allow this self-control to also be accompanied by Parliament's operators. Minister and Mr.Diricks, you spoke about how you warned the minister when there was a concern. I did not find in the documents the timeline of how a number of incidents were or were not reported to the Minister to prevent it. Would it be possible to have specific dates, for two years, for example, how many times you have alerted the office of concern and on what files? Was there only two cases, that of fipronil and that of Veviba and Vanlommel in the following week? Or have there been other times when you notified the Minister(s)? I wish I had your reactions. The following questions are addressed to Minister Geens. Minister, you are challenging one of the elements that seems to be a consensus between the AFSCA and the prosecutor's office: the lack of means of justice. I reiterate my question to Minister Ducrame. Has not budgetary rationalization also cut down on important steps? Does not the linear way in which things have been done indicate that they are not sufficiently prioritized in relation to the approach of justice in particular, so that we are now facing a public health problem for the citizens and, above all, the survival of Belgian farmers? Minister, maybe you talked about it, but I was distracted or I missed the information. What do you think of the opportunity to grant UNE officers the status of judicial police officer? Has it ever been put on the table? Is this followed by action or not? I would remind you that in other State inspection activities - I am thinking in particular of the social laws or the ONEM - the possibility of having judicial police officers exists. Mr Geens, you are here as the representative of Mr Peeters. I have, of course, also a question, like my colleagues, about the many posted workers who were employed by Veviba. Had the Social Inspectorate ever received complaints? I would like the answer not to be limited to the last two weeks. I would have liked to know whether, in the sector of large operators of agro-industry or other, the Social Law Inspectorate has already been contacted, if complaint has been lodged. Yes or no? How much? On what content? Mr President, this would allow us to imagine the quantity or absence of recriminations and complaints on this subject. I would have liked to have an answer to that question. What about the 79 regularizations that a Veviba subcontractor carried out with ONSS the day before and the day before the search? Admit that the agenda is troubling. I would like Minister Peeters to be able to provide us with these elements, Mr President. I'll have one more comment. It concerns the transversality of communications with all the actors involved. Fraud was committed by an actor representing 30 % of the meat market in Belgium. It was a gross trafficking of the label of a product that may be relative to the risk to human health. Mr Ducarme, you mentioned this question of labels. It seems to me that they are an essential element in the traceability of the product. I understand the arguments that frozen meat can be preserved for a long time. But 12 years old, admit that few people have a meat all this time in their freezer! How is it or is it not possible to set up an alarm system in relation to the dates on these labels? How, with current technological means, is it not possible to have an alarm system for these dates? Keeping meat in freezers for sometimes more than ten years, is that normal? Even if one can say (and who am I to say so?) that there is no damage to the quality of the meat, the consumer could, himself, be concerned by the duration of freezing. I hope that, in the new traceability tracks, the possibility of an alarm system somewhere when it comes to this level will be foreseen. Mr President, for the first round, these are the questions I wanted to ask MM. and to the Deputy Head.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Diricks, first of all I would like to say that I do not wish to question the quality of the work of individual inspectors with my questions. We have been able to read a number of minutes in the annexes. It is true that these are qualitative reports. So let us be clear that my questions are not critical of the work of the auditors. In every company, there are employees who walk away, but I am convinced that a large majority of the employees of the BFSA are doing their job very well. Let me clear up the misunderstanding in which we are being accused of being critical of the operation. My questions are about the operation of the BFSA. We have to ask whether the BFSA is still able to cope with the current situation. In 15 years' time, much has changed in the way our food industry, and in this case our meat industry, has been organised. Our food agency was a gem. From abroad they came to look at it. I want it to be again. We therefore agree with you, Mr Ducarme. You spoke of greater transparency. I am also talking about greater transparency. You spoke of pain points, points of improvement and recommendations. I used exactly the same words. Mr Diricks, I would also like to address you specifically. My questions don't go to your person either. That too is a misunderstanding that is being sent to the world. They're not meant to be a cheap political reckoning. It has, of course, become a political issue because you have made it one of your own. That is not a reproach, that is a finding. That's not an opposition language. It's not about that at all. On the one hand, Minister Ducarme states that the Agency could have done more. I will not list all the examples here. On the other hand, Mr Diricks, both in the media and in your report, you complain and point the finger at the government. That's how you talk about fewer staff. You are talking about savings in the case of justice, which have caused problems in the case in question. You point out that a liaison officer would not have been replaced since his retirement in 2015. You or anyone else at the top of the agency criticises that the unité nationale d' survey has only 17 full-time equivalents compared to 125 in the Netherlands, which illustrates that many services are understaffed, which is the basis of the facts. I come to my questions. Together with many other members, I do not understand why there were fewer checks at Veviba in 2017 than in 2016. You showed that yourself on a slide. Nor do I understand why the BFSA has not used the administrative possibilities it had at its disposal all the time. Why, for example, has it not withdrawn approvals more quickly or has it not decided to increase controls? Together with the other Members, I do not understand why such an economic fraud, whereby 29 out of 34 containers were transported without labels or on which there were traces of deleted labels, does not ring alarm bells and does not give rise to additional interventions in the direction of the agency. This is not understood by any sane person, especially since we have now found seven minutes in the annex, four of which date from 2010, which were already about complaints against and comments about Veviba. So Veviba has been known as a problem company in recent years. Secondly, Minister, I agree with you on the content of the checks. What we have also been able to read in the annex is that the duration of the checks is not that this is the only element to improve the quality of those checks. There was a check in March 2016 at Veviba. Those were three checks at the same time, in the cutting plant, during processing and in the cooling room. I know I can't add that up, I can't say, 4+4+2=10. In total, this took about eight hours, so that is within the so-called minimum period in which you were allowed to do so. But it remains the strict minimum. We then see that after the reports from Kosovo, the same three elements were again inspected, and that the duration of this inspection was also set at that minimum. I would think that this would at least take the maximum inspection time. There were two reports, one in September and one in November. And yet they have not been used to use the maximum duration of the control. Again, the duration of the control is only part of the story, but it is striking that the bar has been lowered rather than filled in as much as possible. I come to another question, which Mr Kitir has also asked. How am I supposed to understand that? There were no savings, there were no fewer resources or even more resources, but yet there are so many fewer staff, 99 full-time equivalents since 2014. Then who are they? Where are they? How many of them did operational inspections? Surely it must have had an impact on the impact of your agency, or on our agency? I heard some believers here from auto-checking. Well, I don't believe in that. Autochecking works on people who are bona fide, autochecking doesn't work on people who are crooked. I also wonder what control there really is on auto-checking so that bona fide and crooked people can be separated from each other. I also wonder why Europe was notified so late through RASFF. You say that Europe was not notified late. However, the timeline makes it clear that there was a week in between. I think that's a long time. Another question that I didn't get an answer to last time was why the custody minister was informed so late. As we all know, and as former Minister Aelvoet has stated, a clear pressure was exerted on the cabinet by Verbist at the time of her cabinet. Has this ever happened in the past? Did this happen between 2003 and now? Have you experienced pressure again? If so, what pressure? I am convinced that Mr Verbist has not changed in all these years. Then I have a few more questions for Minister De Block. I agree with Mr Nollet's questions. On 9 March seven samples of cut flesh were taken in a slaughterhouse in Zottegem. In no less than five of those seven samples, an infection was found, and not least: listeria, E. coli and STEC. The annex contains a very technical explanation and maladie graves. Well, that's serious, isn't it? I know that you said that there are now no signs that this meat has entered our food chain. I agree with you that it is okay if meat that is not intended to enter the food chain does not enter the food chain. But who can guarantee that in this situation? We can't help but look back. We're dealing with a clever fraud here. How do we know this hasn't ended up in our food in the past? I still have a few questions for Minister Geens. Minister, I understand you are also answering for Minister Peeters. I asked him a question which I will now ask you. What will Minister Peeters do to restore consumer confidence? What mistakes does Minister Peeters consider to be made with regard to consumers, in the context of consumer protection? What action will Minister Peeters take to restore consumer confidence? For you, I have the same questions as those of some other colleagues. Why did it take so long before Verbist's search took place? You say that the cooperation with the BFSA has always been successful. It is only when the danger to public health is high that it must be done immediately. But here again, I wonder why no bells started ringing when we knew the extent of the economic fraud? Do you think that the Justice and Police have sufficient resources to assist the BFSA in its audit assignment? In Annex D.6.4.C, we read in a report from the public prosecutors that they complain that too many files are coming from the BFSA and that they are unable to handle the work volume. Do you think this is true? What do you think of that? In another annex, D.6.4.D, there is also a note on the cooperation between the BFSA and the justice and police services. It contains a number of proposals which are very interesting, such as the inclusion of fraud in the food industry in the National Security Plan, the appointment of a judicial police officer, the availability of an anti-fraud office for the food chain and the appointment of an investigating judge to monitor food safety. These are conclusions, recommendations contained in that report. Minister, I would very much like to know your opinion on this. What do you think about that? Do you think this is a good idea? Will you apply this if necessary? Before I decide, I'd like to make a small correction. Minister Ducarme, you referred at the beginning to the export cell and to the fact that it was installed by Minister Aelvoet. This was absolutely not what it has become. This cell is definitely not on the same assignment anymore. At that time, it was only about a promotional campaign abroad for Belgian food products, based on a well-functioning food agency. The task you are now giving to it is of a very different order. I'll come to my own decision. All my questions are concerns about getting the agency to do its job properly. I want us together, opposition and majority, across party boundaries, to distil the points of improvement and learn from them. Mr Ducarme, Mr Diricks, I fully share some of the points you have raised. I therefore believe that we can take steps already. At least I'm here to find out what's on our plate. That is why we consider public health absolutely the most important and, among other things, ask that the Agency should be back under the authority of the Minister for Health. This is not a political recovery of the opposition. It's about knowing what's on our plate, and whether our food is safe and healthy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u23	Mr President, Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the contents of the AFSCA report have already been leaked and commented on in the press on the respective responsibilities of the Agency and the Prosecutor's Office. A sentence in the report was particularly noteworthy: "In order not to impede the magistrate's investigation into labelling fraud, after having transmitted to the magistrate the findings of the investigation carried out in Kosovo, the AFSCA did not carry out a parallel investigation in the freezing establishment." That's what shockes us. The AFSCA would simply have obeyed the judicial authorities, who would have repeatedly called on the Agency to respect the secrecy of the investigation. For us, public health cannot be threatened by legal proceedings and the Agency could have carried out a more thorough review. However, the prosecutor's office claims that at no time did the Agency believe it had to continue its investigations even though it could have done so. We cannot accept all these silences. Had they been interrupted by a decision of the competent minister, the closure of this business could have been ordered in order to protect consumers. However, regular inspection visits were reportedly continued. What is the difference between an ordinary inspection visit and a parallel investigation? Does not an ordinary inspection visit detect outdated meat, which has been frozen for too long, or find meat not intended for human consumption in minced meat preparations? What is the course and purpose of these regular visits? Are there more specific reports about these visits? Fraud could have affected Hong Kong and Côte d'Ivoire. In addition, it appears that the company also exported to the Netherlands, Greece, France, England and Germany. How can we now be sure of the extent of the risks incurred by these fraudsters? How and on what basis can these risks be determined today? To what extent is there still a relationship of trust between the government and the PSAB? Would it not be appropriate to consider monitoring by an independent body, like Committee P, which controls the police? The lengths of silence between 2016 and today challenge us. In addition, we are asking ourselves questions about various contradictions: Minister Ducrame states that the AFSCA has more resources today than before, and the AFSCA states that it has less. This latter statement seems logical as the number of full-time workers has decreased. My colleague from the CD&V asked a question that also affects me. How are organic meats controlled? We don't talk about it much, but the subject is very current. There is an increasing number of consumers of organic meat. It would be interesting to know how control took place in this particular area of the food chain. You're saying, Mr. Ducrame, you're going to do an audit. How and with what means will you reorganize AFSCA, if necessary? I think it will be. Otherwise, what is an audit for? I'm joining my colleagues here at Ecolo-Groen. The food chain focuses on consumer health. It would be useful, interesting and even imperative for the Ministry of Health to be responsible for this area. Here are my comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u24	Mr President, I would like to start with a simple, basic and inescapable question. Why did it take 18 months for a search to be conducted, after serious anomalies were found? The AFSCA's response is to say that the case was in the hands of Justice. This answer is not on the road and the question remains. Why did it take 18 months to carry out this search? I want to ask Minister Ducrame that question. What is the cause of this serious dysfunction? This may be a lack of resources, or a problem of collusion. We even had a Walloon minister who mentioned such a risk. Or this is due to the supremacy of economic interests over health imperatives, for example, the diversion of the role of AFSCA beyond its core missions. Another example is the fear expressed in some accounts of the economic consequences of the closure of a slaughterhouse. I ask Minister Ducrame to answer this question specifically. What's the cause? Why did it take 18 months for a search to be conducted? It is the basic question that determines everything else. Secondly, I would like to turn to the risk that this case will not be an isolated case. Minister Ducrame spoke about Veviba's mafia practices. This term gives the measure of malfeasance but may suggest that it is a gallant sheep, an isolated case. However, we already know that this is not an isolated case. The Vanlommel slaughterhouse in Herentals also supplied outdated meat to the same Kosovar wholesaler. Isn't the known business just the tip of an iceberg? An iceberg, of course, already quite important, because 30% of the market is not annoyed for the Veviba company alone. Don't put all the actors in the same basket, but let's worry about what the perimeter of this basket is. I am clearly asking the minister the question. What will the government do, what will the minister do to measure the extent of such practices in the meat sector, including the issue of export channels? I assume that it is no coincidence that the two supplies of dubious meat go to the same importer in Kosovo. We're talking about other channels to other countries. What surveys are being conducted on these international channels? As for collusion and corruption, we heard former minister Magda Aelvoet tell us that Verbist and Veviba had, at the time, attempted corruption with one of his collaborators. It's quite challenging. Were the government, the AFSCA, and the judiciary aware of these attempts at corruption? This one or others? If so, what have we done? The question also applies to the Minister of Justice. As far as AFSCA is concerned, what internal and external control mechanism exists or does not exist, as I fear, to combat these risks of corruption or collusion? [[With regard to the means of the AFSCA, like all colleagues, I have heard Minister Ducrame say: "It is wrong to say that the means of the AFSCA are diminishing."]] The facts are stubborn, Mr. Ducrame. Indeed, you can perform manipulations based on the years chosen to try to demonstrate that there is no decrease. Let's look at the facts. I've consulted the state budget. In 2014, €108 million in funding; in 2017, €86 million. This is a decrease from 108 to 86, I confirm. The latest AFSCA 2016 report specifies the total revenue. I want to talk about it because I just mentioned staffing when Mr. Ducrame was talking about all the revenues. This total revenue is 185 million in 2014, 167 million in 2016 and, according to Mr.Ducarme, 176 million in 2017. We're going from 185 to 176. I confirm to Mr Ducrame that this is a decrease, not an increase. According to the latest AFSCA report, the number of missions would reach 130,000 in 2014 and 119,000 in 2016. I can confirm to Mr. Ducrame that this is a decrease from 130,000 to 119,000. Finally, in its report, the AFSCA communicates its staff until 2018. Between 2014 and 2018, 1,161 full-time equivalents were increased to 1,062. I can confirm once again, Mr. Ducrame, that this is a decrease, not an increase. Beyond this controversy of decline or increase within the AFSCA, it would be useful to know whether its resources are sufficient. Minister, in your opinion, are the means currently available to the AFSCA sufficient? If they are not, what conclusion can be drawn? The AFSCA report also quotes: "The Agency's monitors and inspectors are not always armed enough to fight fraud especially when it is well organised." Mr Diricks said today that a simple front-line check is not enough to discover important frauds such as that of the case before us. Minister, what are you going to do to ensure large-scale controls to detect major fraud? You don't have to check the numbers now, Mr. Ducrame, you can take a little time! The minister just left us. However, when he announces an additional quarterly check in 1,073 establishments, I ask him the following question that one of his employees will send him: with which staff will these additional quarterly checks be carried out in these 1,073 establishments? In connection with the lack of AFSCA resources, there are also complaints from independent veterinarians working for AFSCA; it is known that control work in slaughterhouses is mainly based on such independent veterinarians. They complain of too low allowances (with a fixed amount, regardless of the time of the benefit: day, night or weekend), an increasing workload with a maximum of two hours for each check, and poor communication. Almost all inspections are carried out by these independent veterinarians and one of their spokespersons says: "It is felt that inspections in large meat companies should not be too thorough. AFSCA does not like to close large slaughterhouses because it is an industrial machine that is suddenly stopped. If veterinary inspectors are too zealous, they receive fewer missions the following month." This does indeed show that there is economic pressure, as I mentioned at the beginning of the intervention, to look for the cause of the problems we are dealing with. Is the Minister aware of these issues and how does he intend to address them? There is the possible "variable geometry" that exists in the control of AFSCA. I think everyone has already met with small independents who complain or fear the visit of the AFSCA and a threat of closure, sometimes for small tools. In relation to this requirement and these rather severe controls, or at least experienced as such by these small independents, it is felt that in larger producers this requirement does not exist. The fact that Veviba continued its activities despite very serious facts tends to demonstrate this. I go back to Mr Diricks' statement, which at times said that a simple front-line check does not reveal fraud in a slaughterhouse. The problem is that, obviously, one controls a large slaughterhouse as one controls a small independent, without more means. There must be proportionality in the means. My question is this: are there economic pressures that make economic imperatives take precedence over public health? This fairly typical phenomenon of liberal ideology, but I hope that the Liberal ministers in this government do not get caught up in this ideology, shows that there is a problem. In any case, there are reports in the press that people from AFSCA, from the inside, say that closing a slaughterhouse means that the company loses a lot of money, that people are out of work, that the media immediately jump on the case. And so, there is indeed pressure. The director of the AFSCA can of course deny this, it is his right, but one cannot deny the existence of testimonies that show that economic pressure sometimes outweighs health constraints. On the other hand, the lack of resources for justice is a vast subject, Minister of Justice. Again this week there was a demonstration of the justice staff. It was known that the judiciary and the police were in dire need of resources to combat serious financial crime. We know today that this is also the case when it comes to combating food malpractice. So we've got Justice in shreds. At the same time, international courts are being created where multinationals can escape justice or, in any case, have tailor-made justice. The question is simple: what additional budget for Justice, what additional budget for the PSAB, so that they both manage to do their work properly? This Friday, there is just one fiscal year. This is the time for the government to show whether or not it has the will to really change things. Madam and gentlemen, I would therefore like to give you an appointment Friday to have the answer to this question. Finally, I come to the economic irregularities of the Verbist-Veviba Group. The AFSCA report states: "Contrary to information in the press" – different versions are circulating – "inspection checks at Veviba and other Verbist sites could not be announced." However, it is also reported in the press that more than 70 workers were declared to ONSS the day before and the day before the search on 28 February on the premises of the Veviba company. So I wonder if they've been officially informed? If this is not the case, how is it that they were aware of the search? I would point out that most of the workers came from Eastern countries, and mainly from Romania. It is therefore clear that there were social malfeasances at the same time as food, health and economic malfeasances.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u25	My speech will be short because many things have already been said. Minister Diricks, when I heard you, I felt that your interventions would have been the same, whether or not there was a report from the AFSCA. We postponed our work by saying that it was important to have this report that will explain the events and their analysis. My colleagues Nollet and Dedry have already addressed a few issues, but in this report and its annexes there is talk of a reduction in the number of staff and the AFSCA tells us that as a result of this decrease, it is difficult to increase controls and complete the entire missions. It also states that Agency workers have been monopolized in a function of export support rather than operation and primary missions. But this has nothing to do with having an export cell, food security is also concerned with export. That is not what is said in the report. I would like to hear from Mr Diricks and possibly Mr Dochy on the identification of the problems contained in this report. We need to deal with them honestly and frankly between us to try to improve the device. Otherwise, it will continue to be said that better controls would have been needed, etc. The work that has been done must be used. The report also points out that the National Investigation Unit has only a very small number of staff compared to other countries, particularly the Netherlands. I wanted to ask AFSCA how this is organized. How is this organised when you are faced with a situation like this? We find out there's fraud or a big worry somewhere. Here, the national investigation unit only intervenes when there really is a serious fact. Who manages this? Who decides to give the information? Who decides who to give them to? Is information given to the stakeholder chain so that even those in the field know that there is something and pay attention? Or is it decided that the information remains in a small cell and that, above all, nothing is said to anyone, not even to the other officials in the chain of control, because they are not trusted and we do not want the information to be disseminated? If there was a problem, I think it's also in this organization of the chain. I find that here too, we must take advantage of this moment when we can work on how we work and identify problems. We've set up a system that works in such a way. It didn't work. Perhaps it is the way we organized it that is not effective and that we have to think differently? There is one last element of the report that I also wanted to address. I was quite surprised by the self-control observation, with this idea that we should perhaps question ourselves so that there is greater vigilance on the part of the Agency. We are faced with a sector that is nonchalant in relation to the requirements of hygiene and food safety. It's still interesting to hear you. We cannot remain passive in the face of such a situation! Mr. Diricks, I am disturbed by your intervention. You spoke in the same way, the first time we saw each other, saying: "Frequency, number and control requirements are the responsibility of the legislator. He's the one staring at them in an arrest. I can't do more." I think that is a rather short answer on the part of the Food Security Policy Officer. If these orders, these frequencies, that required number are less than would be necessary to fulfill your mission, you obviously have a duty to question the policy. I do not think that the current orders prevent you from doing more than what is contained in a minimum control plan to ensure that things are done properly. In a broader way, Minister, I think that when you talk about the AFSCA budget, you really need to distinguish between allocations and own revenue. We must not mix everything up and make it look as simple as that. Once we have done this and also compare it with the number of workers, we see that there is a decrease and a different direction of the means. With regard to labelling, I am particularly pleased to hear you say that we really need to make sure that the information is better, that the information is on the labels, that we know where it comes from, etc. My colleague Mrs Dedry and I have for a long time been defending work on labelling, information and consumer awareness, particularly for food quality. We have each and every time faced a refusal by the majority to work this in Parliament. One of the arguments being also that European obligations would prevent us from moving forward on this. I can hear you, I am happy and I hope that the message will pass and that we can move on to that. It's the same thing about small producers. At last, they are truly devoted to attention. I know that there is the Small Producers Unit, which we received recently in the Health Committee. All the work that is being done has been explained to us. But beyond that, we must analyse the whole chain and agricultural policies, also in their European, federal and regional dimensions. What do we do to promote them? My last point is more global. I think being responsible doesn't necessarily mean being guilty. We all have a responsibility, as Belgian political actors, to ensure that the food security of citizens is respected and protected. The members of a government have a responsibility that it works well, even if there are culprits, fraudsters on the ground. We have a responsibility to ensure food security in all security policies and policies. I'd also like to hear from you about that. The report states that food security is no longer a priority in the 2016-2019 National Security Plan. Was it contained in previous plans? Why is it not there or is it no longer there? Minister Peeters is not here, but the Minister of Social Affairs is present. In November 2017, social inspections were carried out in the sector. From what I have read, there have been social inspections at at least six slaughter or processing sites. Recommendations were made. This means that for several months, facts were known and normally followed by the Social Inspectorate. Recommendations were made. It is reported that two days later, workers were regularized. Is this the result of these inspections? Were the same workers targeted in the Social Inspectorate's reports? These are questions that it is important for us to have answers, especially in relation to the satellite structure of large slaughter, processing and food cutting groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u26	If you will allow me, perhaps a very general remark: it is spring today. It's spring today! It is a symbolic moment marking the end of winter and announcing a better climate. And we know that there can be a period of transition between winter frimas and better times. Minister, it's a metaphor. I don't know if she's relevant. In the debate that we are holding on spring day, we can hope that it will also be a sign of change and renewal. For in the end, spring brings hope. It is a new season, during which we will sow and harvest and do things differently. I agree with you on a point you made on Monday. You said there's been a before and there's gonna be a after. You confirmed today that we will move forward, work and reform. We fully agree on this. From the opposition's point of view, we can say that the next one should have come a little earlier, that is, a little earlier. We can blame you, but the idea is there. For the rest, I'll be less metaphorical. On my second point, I would like to return to the statement made by our colleague Damien Thiéry. I know he's gone and he told me why. It's not a problem. I don't want to argue, but I want to go back to the bottom. Like other colleagues, the concept of political instrumentalisation does not pass. Parliament, the majority and the opposition are entitled to ask a number of questions in this matter. It is our duty to do so, as we control government regardless of our respective roles. With regard to the audit, we are going back to the same debate we had on certain points with the fipronil crisis, namely the time for reaction so that the minister is informed of a relatively serious problem. We asked ourselves this question at the time. Following the discussion on fipronil, some suggested that an audit be conducted. This was not accepted by the majority. Today, we welcome the fact that there will be this double audit, but the content is exactly what was proposed six months ago. It was about the question of controls, about the communication between the PSAB and the policy. The AFSCA is also requesting this work to be done. The popular adage says, "To something bad is good." Finally, in this second crisis, we will get this audit. I'll be back for a moment on Test-Achats and consumers. Test-Achats makes a number of observations and proposals. It recalls that the current legislation provides for the indication of the origin of unprocessed meat but not the origin of processed meat. The question that I ask the minister and the AFSCA is: What steps do you intend to take in this regard? Test-Achats notes that "since 2014, manufacturers have been obliged to indicate on the packaging that a product has been frozen and then thawed, but there are exceptions, in which some may be rushing to take advantage of this latitude." Given the situation and the new context, what do you intend to do about these freezing and thawing situations? Test-Achats notes "a lack of communication between the SPF Economy, responsible for labelling, and the other supervisory authorities, the AFSCA, the Regions and the Public Prosecutor's Office." I hear, minister, that you are very attentive to these proposals and that you are going to follow them up. That's very good in itself. I hope Mr Thiéry does not consider that Test Purchases is making a political instrumentalization of the case. Parliament and Test Purchases have the same questions. The question of responsibility remains. We are not in a system where no responsibility exists. I therefore come back to my question, although Mr Senesael has already referred to this subject twice. At the end of the fipronil crisis, in your general policy note, you indicated that you were going to conclude a memorandum of understanding between the AFSCA and your firm to organize the modalities of communication and information in sensitive and contentious cases and in potential crises. I therefore rest my question, to which I did not have an answer in plenary: has this protocol been achieved? If so, when, and how? If not, why? I hope to have an answer to this question today. I'm coming to the AFSCA. Here too, there is a political debate. We may have differences of opinion. Mr. Thiéry says these numbers are wrong, but he himself has not given any figures. Of course, we must not confuse the federal allocation to the PSAB with the PSAB revenues that also come from producers and the private sector. I'm asking Mr Diricks a question. I understand that between the 2014 budget and the 2017 budget, the AFSCA would have lost 22 million euros. Do you confirm this amount? According to my approximate calculation, this would represent about 14 per cent of its budget. Do you confirm this proportion? In any case, I read in the report that between 2014 and 2018, about 100 workers, civil servants, left AFSCA. It's kind of the 14-18 of the AFSCA. That's about a hundred agents on the carpet. To be precise for Mr. Thiéry, that is 99 agents. I'm thinking, Mr. Diricks, if the government were to give you 99 agents, you would certainly have something to occupy them to do more and better in the area of control. I would therefore like to hear you also on this issue of means. Do you confirm the numbers? How can we improve work without additional resources? One more word about the breeders: they do not make instrumentalization; they manifest. If they are angry, it is because this crisis of confidence weakens a sector that was already facing other difficulties. In any case, as I said last week, they are calling for transparency and traceability of products. I am speaking here to the Minister of Agriculture. Indeed, when an animal enters the slaughterhouse, the producer receives no information on what happens. Probably in Bastogne, even elsewhere, there are problems in terms of carcase yield and weight. Kilograms would be diverted to uncontrolled production lines. Are you aware of such facts? What measures are you taking to respond to a demand expressed by the sector for years – because this is not the time of the current crisis – to organise transparency in slaughterhouses and, downstream, when products are processed. I will conclude with a question concerning the Vanlommel case in Kosovo. When did the AFSCA become aware of this? When was the information transmitted to justice and within what time frame? What control has the AFSCA been able to carry out in this file, which unfortunately comes in addition to that of Veviba. I will limit myself to these questions, although there are many others. We can deal with them later. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: I will therefore give the floor to the many speakers we have invited.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u27	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the general tone of these debates, which I consider instructive. There have, of course, been remarks, sometimes there are elements that oppose us with some representatives of the opposition, but I find that there is also consensus on a number of advances to be made. First of all, I would like to clarify the figures. Indeed, the AFSCA's budgetary resources are increasing. This does not mean that staffing is increasing. AFSCA has a number of own revenues. This own revenue consists of remunerations which are charged to enterprises for services provided by the AFSCA. This also concerns contributions from sectors for the financing of part of the food chain control programme. There are other own revenue related to EU co-financing, leasing of laboratory equipment and other small receipts. Therefore, more than offset, the decrease in the allocation has seen the increase in own revenue, which means that there has been an increase in the AFSCA's budgetary resources: 171,427,000 in 2015, 167,000,000 in 2016 and 175,417,000 in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u28	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u29	That is the evolution of the figures for the last three years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u30	And in 2014?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u31	In 2014, 185 million; in 2015, 171 million; in 2016, 167 million; in 2017, 175 million. So, over the past three years, there has been an increase in the AFSCA budget. I want to hear everything, but this is a reality! Another reality is that the years 2014 and 2015 ended with a bonus. The bonus was 17 million in 2014 and nearly 10 million in 2015. This is also a numerical reality. I would also like to point out that, at the level of accounting reserves, AFSCA benefits from EUR 158 million. This reserve has been activated in the context of the fipronil crisis and the 30 million we have set aside there. I am not saying that there has been no reduction in staff, including within the Control Directorate-General. I'm just trying to list the facts. When I am told that the AFSCA's budgetary resources are constantly declining, I would like to go back to these figures and say that this is not the case. AFSCA's budgetary resources are not constantly declining.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u32	It is clear that this has diminished, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u33	I'm saying there was no steady decline. The AFSCA's budgetary means, as indicated, have increased compared to 2015 and 2016. This may not work for you in terms of communication semantics, but it is a reality!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u35	I've quoted the numbers and I'm not going to fight with you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u36	The figures will be reflected in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u37	You will also check and see that the share of own revenue continues to increase. This is a fact like the decrease at DG Control level for inspectors and controllers. It is clear that our audit of control procedures and policies will also assess the need to increase the number of auditors in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u38	Minister, you will still admit that there may be own revenues that are probably linked to specific activities that generate own costs. You will admit that staffing as a whole is declining.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u39	I have indicated that, more broadly than offsetting, own revenues have resulted in an increase in the AFSCA's budgetary resources over the past three years. No doubt this may not satisfy a number of colleagues...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u40	45 million less in three years, making the cumulative amount!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u41	But that's the reality. The reality is that in 2014 the AFSCA's budget was 185 million. In 2015, 171 million. In 2016, 167 million and 175 million in 2017. It is therefore not true to say that the AFSCA's budgetary resources would be constantly declining. That's a lie because that's the reality of the numbers! As far as control personnel are concerned, I repeat, I mean that the audit gives us all the elements that allow us to assess whether or not we need to increase the number of controllers at the level of the local control units. This will have to be a response which will be communicated to us with regard to the national investigation unit which, in its view, has not seen any reduction in staff. But we must also see – I owe it to the truth – that the number of cases has increased. Therefore, I also intend, in this context, to assess through the audit the need to see the number of collaborators increase with regard to the national investigation unit. I am really trying, in relation to this – I hope you have noticed – not to stir up polemics on this subject. I recognize the reality of the decrease in the number of employees and inspectors, and I also point out that. I will naturally expect the audit recommendations to be clear at this level and tell us whether there is a need to increase the number of staff. I will take the list of questions; they are very numerous and I will try to answer everyone in general. Mrs Gantois, the agreement signed by the presidents of the organisations has been in force since the date of signature, 11 January. This is a collective commitment of the sector, and it aims to ensure a smoother course and also greater transparency in the mechanisms in the whole beef sector. There is also another question that you raise and I will address it more than once. There is a form of consensus here on the need for consumers to be better informed and more readable in relation to the meat products offered to them. In the context of the consultations we have today – also with Test-Achats, which highlights a number of labelling and traceability problems – I believe that the blockchain technology system needs to be addressed. There was a question about bio-related fraud relayed by Ms Caprasse, Mr de Lamotte, Mr Senesael. At the federal level, the competencies related to agriculture are derived from residual competencies, such as those of the AFSCA. At the federal level, therefore, there are no actors in charge of the organic sector, which falls under regional responsibility. For Wallonia, there are various bodies competent for bio: the Walloon administration of agriculture, the Walloon promotion, the ASBL Biowallonia, the Walloon research organization CRA-W. In Flanders, there are fewer producers in the organic sector. There are, however, several competent bodies: Department Landbouw en Visserij, BioForum Vlaanderen and the TÜV NORTH INTEGRA certifying body. In addition, organic certification is mainly managed by private or non-institutional operators: Certisys, Biopartner, the Milk Committee and TÜV NORTH INTEGRA. The AFSCA, on the other hand, is competent for the verification of traceability in this context. In case of a problem – for example, a mixture of organic foods with non-organic elements – there is a mandatory notification to the AFSCA for the fraud aspect at the level of traceability or fraud under the name organic, i.e. fraud under the label here. Organic fraud outside of this case is the responsibility of the Regions. With regard to fraud in the organic sector, AFSCA informed me that it had received a notification from the independent Certisys certifying body. According to the procedure in place, this body has also notified fraud to the Region. It is then the Region that intervenes in the solution of the problem. MM. Senesael and Nollet asked a question and wanted AFSCA to go under the supervision of Public Health. That will not be the case. Indeed, the tutelage of the AFSCA must logically be in the hands of the Federal Minister of Agriculture, who has a federative role at the agricultural level. I would remind you that it is he who sits at the level of the European Council. He is the one who supports the concertation in the chain. I would also like to point out that, at European Union level, two thirds of agriculture ministers are responsible for their national food security agencies. These issues are dealt with at the level of the Agriculture Council. I would remind you, however, that a change had taken place in 2007. Prior to 2007, the Minister of Health was responsible for food safety. A decision was taken to change the situation. In 2007, if I'm not mistaken, the PS had to be in charge. Doesn't it seem to you, Mr. Senesael? Apparently, the PS agreed. At the time, the balance sheet of the agriculture sector, and of Mr Demotte, who was then Minister of Health, was not positive. The link between agriculture and food security is essential. I can hear some questions. Mrs. Dedry, you were asking me if I was under pressure. You know, when you exercise responsibilities, you have to be able to resist. Naturally, it is up to us to prepare the agricultural sector for the development of basic standards in terms of food security. No change will take place. I think it's a good idea. A question was then asked about the protocol. As part of my policy brief, I made a commitment to develop one, involving AFSCA and my firm. And I'm sticking to it. Since November, sixteen exchanges and meetings have been held to prepare this protocol, which has not yet been completed due to blockages with the Agency. For this reason, I have given him several instructions regarding the consultation meetings. These are organized strictly between the AFSCA and the firm. Other instructions relate to the exchange of files, including in the event of an emergency. I have given more in terms of international aspects. When AFSCA receives requests from abroad, my firm wishes to be informed. We also asked AFSCA to disclose any information related to a health safety risk or suspicion, also relating to an open health safety investigation or instructions that would have been given. I'm not going to reopen the controversy. I'm telling Messrs. Senesael and Nollet very calmly, this international mission was born with the Agency. It's developed. But to hear you, Mr Senesael, if we follow your reasoning, the AFSCA will no longer have contact with third countries to help Belgian producers to know the standards imposed in terms of exports. This means that there will be no more exports. It is of course necessary to know the standards of third countries in order to be able to export. It seems to me that you know the economic structure of our country, including that of the Meat sector. I have indicated the figures: 163 % of the supply ratio for beef, 252 % of the ratio for pork and just over 190% of the ratio for poultry. Mr Senesael, Mr Nollet, if we follow you and we no longer allow AFSCA to do this work, which also allows our small producers in Flanders and Wallonia to participate in the export - it is not only the big ones that export, I also want to support the small producers - you send a concrete message to all to put the key under the mat. Without export, small producers will simply die! I'm so sorry to hear you. Mr. Nollet, forgive me, but I don't think I'm going to live any more. I believe that the conclusion of this day is very positive. Consensus and bridges exist beyond the majority-opposition divide on a number of policies and reforms to be pursued. You tell us that we hijacked the AFSCA by focusing its work on export. The export unit, out of a few thousand at the staff level, represents fifteen full-time equivalents. Is this a hijacking of the AFSCA and its role in relation to health? No, of course not! We must continue to act in this way for the reasons I have explained because our country, in agricultural matters, needs both export and bread. A number of questions have been raised as to whether we have learned from fipronil. Mr Damien Thiéry pointed out as others: the friponil crisis was well managed. Nevertheless, it was a crisis and lessons were learned. AFSCA has launched a public procurement to work on its general crisis organization and external communication. Work is under way and continues. We were able to note that improvements could also be made, even though this crisis, as I said, was handled very well. A number of lessons have also been learned, including at the international level. We have told the European Council that we expect a more proactive role for the European Commission in this area or, here too, more focused and dynamic European coordination. We have also taken steps and continue to do so today in order to have greater capacity in the laboratories at Belgian level in order to reduce the time taken for analyses. You will probably remember times that are sometimes far too long. In times of crisis, we must be able to get them much faster; it is essential! We continued, in close coordination with AFSCA, to control eggs. It is not because the fipronil crisis is behind us, that we have stopped the surveys and the control of eggs. Controls are continuing. Analyses are carried out and it is examined whether a particular product complies with all the relevant rules. Mr Thiéry, Ms Dierick and Ms Lijnen raised a particular issue, namely the link between AFSCA and justice. As I said, I really intend to enter a positive dynamic with my colleague from Justice and therefore between our two administrations. Of course, we will be able to produce the audit on the relationship between the Department of Justice and the AFSCA. It's a necessity. We know that this aspect is crucial, as I said earlier. We know that's where there's a part of the problem. I thank Mrs Dierick for her comment. It is not a question of starting to look for culprits on the basis of faults. Clearly, there is a problem. We will have to work better on this articulation, this exchange of information, the initiatives that should have been taken in the head of the AFSCA which, when working with an investigating judge, does not work like the administration you know. She works as a support service to the investigating judge. And that's part of the problem. The question that arose at the AFSCA was this: can it react like the administration we know or do it remain strictly within the scope of the support service to the investigating judge? And this is where the meeting between the College of Attorneys General and the AFSCA, together with Minister Geens and I, will allow us, even before the audit makes its recommendations, to find a number of avenues for improvement. An additional element that was also pointed out by Ms Dierick, Ms Lijnen and Mr Delizée was the question of trust. As I said, this renewed confidence will require concerted action, which will lead to my reform of practice, which will take place in parallel with that which will affect AFSCA. I am very attentive to everything that has been said about traceability and labelling. On this particular point, Mrs Gerkens, I hear parties like Ecolo and others joining me. Or am I joining you? Whatever. But we need to move forward on these issues. The new practices on which we must move in the context of the consultation I have put in place on traceability and labelling must provide consumers with greater readability of what they consume. Mrs Lijnen, you said that we need to strengthen the AFSCA. That is the objective. Some spoke of political responsibility. Indeed, here it is to strengthen the AFSCA. I agree with you, Mr. Nollet: the system has failed. I said it and I assume it. If there had been no flaw, an audit would not be necessary, we should not reform certain aspects of our control policies. As I mentioned earlier, as part of my introduction and as Mrs Kitir rightly pointed out, there is a need to consider the possibility of withdrawing export capacity and the increase in the frequency of controls. That has not been done. We need to identify new methods of control that allow us to stop going through a situation like this. Working with all stakeholders on food fraud must be a priority. These criminal steps must be combated. As I said, Minister Geens and I have the will to move forward with the College of Attorneys General and the AFSCA on this matter. Other administrations, other services may also be involved. Food fraud was not included in the 2012-2015 national security plan, nor is it included in the 2016-2019 plan. We must make it a priority, to mobilize the actors in this struggle. It's obvious. Mrs Kitir, you asked a question about the European Commission's report. Since 2001, the AFSCA has been audited on several occasions by the European Commission on the scope of meat and animal by-products. During these audits, some deficiencies were found. They resulted in recommendations from the European Commission. These recommendations were all included in an action plan validated by the AFSCA and the Commission. The implementation of these actions was then regularly monitored both within the AFSCA and by the Commission. Of all the recommendations made over the years, only one has not yet been fully implemented. It relates to microbiological control in meat establishments and in particular to sample processing and microbiological control. Mr Diricks, if you wish, you can complete this information. All audit reports and action plans drawn up by the AFSCA and validated by the European Commission are available on the European Commission's website. Mrs Kitir, you were also going back to consumer confidence. Indeed, confidence-building will also require greater transparency for the consumer, as regards the products at his disposal, including in large-scale distribution. Mr de Lamotte, I answered earlier on the budgetary elements. You said we had to get back together, "retread" the AFSCA. It was a beautiful picture. Our will is to reform the AFSCA, especially on the political axis of control. I repeat what I said to Mrs Lijnen earlier: we need to strengthen the AFSCA, it is not a question of questioning her work. Today, it works and works. Mrs Dedry, the Agency remains a very good European student. Does this mean that nothing needs to be improved? No. But as I said earlier, don't throw the baby away with the bath water. Mrs Gerkens, Mr de Lamotte, you have come back to the question of self-control. It is clear that, in view of the decrease in the frequency of certain controls, this aspect must remain within the scope of the audit and must be revisited. In fact, the Veviba cutting plant had the lowest frequency. This explains why a specific problem could not be identified. In a way, self-control has encouraged – I must say – Veviba not to change anything. It will therefore also be a matter of revisiting certain aspects of self-control, which, of course, must also be considered very positively and should be maintained. Mr de Lamotte, I naturally intend to come to Parliament with the audit and reforms. It is obvious that I do not wish to work in catini, but to do so transparently by communicating the audit to the committee. It's essential. As I said, as part of the tight timing we are putting in place, we will ensure that we have the recommendations for the summer and, in the process, produce the reforms. Producing reforms also means presenting them to Parliament and listening to them. Madam President, Mr President, of course I intend to come back to you on this point. Mrs Dedry, thank you for all your comments, even if we do not agree on everything. I'm obviously targeting the opposition. Like Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Kitir, I see a number of axes on which we are quite united. We agree on the need to move forward, improve the transparency and performance of the AFSCA. These are the words you used. Traceability and labelling are also involved. I won't be any longer. I tried to sweep the questions as widely as possible. I will reply again to a comment made by Mrs Dierick. The government did not want to stop at the control aspect. He wanted an audit to also look at the structure and functioning of the PSAB. It is also a question, in relation to these aspects related to the operation and exchange of internal information, of determining the progress to be made. In this connection, I would like to point out to Mr de Lamotte that it is important that we plan on this issue with Herman Diricks, who tells us that he intends to accompany this desire for reform and to participate in this desire to make AFSCA more effective. However, in addition to the control policy and the relationship and communication aspect between Justice and the AFSCA, there are also a number of questions that need to be asked and what can be improved in terms of structure and functioning. This is an essential element. Finally, Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to respond to malfunctions, it is a matter of making a clear commitment to Parliament to produce reforms in the context of a specific timing. The specifications are drawn up by listening, in particular, to the actors of the Agrofront. It is a question of having one or even two audits carried out that will allow us to have recommendations for the summer. In the meantime, it is a matter of producing reforms, not to stop at this aspect, to continue the consultation that we have initiated with the Agrofront, with the Horeca, with the distribution, with Test-Achats. Mr Delizée, the contribution of Test-Achats is indeed an important element in the discussions on new practices. So, beyond what we are already doing, since meetings between the College of Attorneys General and the AFSCA will begin soon, a new control program will have to be developed for cutting workshops, slaughterhouses, refrigerators that will have to be implemented fairly quickly and that will demonstrate our willingness to carry out additional checks. As I said earlier, there is an additional quarterly check, which represents several thousand additional checks. That is the agenda. I am now quick to give the floor to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u42	Madam President, I have had questions from Mr Nollet and Mrs Dedry on the same subject. As regards the theoretical risk of contamination of meat from the meat cut, we had already asked for a risk assessment. The agency delivered it on 8 March. The assessment was confirmed by a report annexed to the 10th folder. Mr Nollet refers to that. It says that it is normal that cut meat may contain coli, listeria, shigella, salmonella and other bacteria. To give an idea of the risk, a study has been carried out in pigs and it has been shown that 0.9 percent of the stab wounds are contaminated with salmonella. Contamination with coliforms or coli was observed in 40.6 % of cases. In stab wounds, coliforms are present in large numbers. This can be explained by the fact that coli............................................................................................................................................................... In those pigs, 27 percent of the stitching sites were positive for coli. At this point, the report is a good representation. The question was asked whether contaminated meat has entered the food chain. We don't know that. The meat on which these studies were carried out was not intended for consumption and was separate. It was category 3 meat. It is therefore right that the rules of the agency should provide that this meat should not enter the food chain and should not be consumed. The cow's tails removed prior to inspection are also category 3 meat because they may have a contamination with staphylococcus aureus or streptococcus pyogenes. There may also be abscesses there. It may also contain chemical residues of injections or objects, such as a broken needle. This should be investigated on the animal itself. Once the tail is removed, it cannot enter the food chain. For that reason, they were all recalled. We can't know what the impact of consuming this meat is. Besides, this is actually just a small piece of an entire cow. The Scientific Institute of Public Health holds polls that go back to ten years. If there were a certain trend, we would certainly have noticed that. Moreover, these polls were specifically aimed at Luxembourg because Veviba also sold. If the meat was frozen with a small contamination there was no problem anyway because the contamination, the bacterial growth stops when the meat is frozen. The longer the meat is frozen, the less contamination remains. What this does to the taste, structure and smell of the meat is of course something else. We have no idea how long this practice has been going on at Veviba. We certainly know that nothing was reported on food insecurity. Therefore, no food-related infections have occurred. We know this from the information provided by the Scientific Institute for Health. We have requested the reports of the social inspections from the administrator-general of the FPS. This showed whether the recommendations were being followed. In addition, it was possible to determine whether there were many regularisations. The question is also whether there is a link with what happened later, namely seizures. I do not have the necessary information yet. However, Madam President, I can send this information later. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: Minister Geens, I am sorry to see you intervene under such conditions, but the architect of this building must be identified so that his services are no longer used: the acoustics are bad, we do not see the last speakers, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u43	Madam President, regardless of the fact that food security is not currently a priority in the comprehensive safety note or in the National Security Plan, this remains a good sign for the past. By this I mean that when writing such notes and plans - in which I actively participated - the priorities were primarily those of the past. It is very difficult to know the future. Cybercrime is, of course, easy to identify. On the other hand, since the dioxin crisis, behaviour has improved in our country. If this is not done, there is a risk of writing an integral security note or a national security plan of 2,000 pages, which no police officer, officer or prosecutor will read. It's a blush, a platitude that I communicate to you, but I still dare to share it with you. Indeed, food security will obviously be included in the future National Security Plan. However, it is not possible to include 3,000 priorities in such a programme. We have had enough pain, and I apologize, but I will of course point out to the Minister of the Interior that you and our colleague in agriculture want this to be taken into account. Before that, I had to explain to you the evolution of such a process. Irrespective of this, we have a national judge of reference - who sits at the Ghent prosecutor's office, Mr Clarisse - who might have to be heard in the company of Mr Diricks, instead of always hearing ministers. It's a proposal, because he knows what he's talking about, while – as I was saying this morning – I'm just the interface. I'm not saying that I don't know what I'm talking about, but when you talk about the secrecy of the investigation, it's always interesting to hear a magistrate instead of a minister of justice, who may have more relevant concepts about it. At the level of our prosecutor's network of expertise, which is therefore headed by Mr Liégeois, Honorary Attorney General, we have set up a special unit for agriculture, food and drugs, which deals specifically with this kind of crime. It should not be thought that, because this is not part of the National Security Plan, it is not a priority. This is not an absolute priority such as cybercrime or terrorism. That's what I meant. Mr. de Lamotte made a request. I can't always say who asked such a question, because you asked so many and, moreover, I was alone. I've been thinking. There were collaborators in the room. Mr. de Lamotte, you're asking a question about the judicial police officers. It is true that the Social Inspectorate can give the competence of judicial police to some of its inspectors and that Customs have done so. They therefore have judicial police officers within them, who are not prosecutors or police officers. So far, this is not the case for the AFSCA, but it does not mean that we could not do it. What is the practical difference? It's not huge. The criminal police officer can do things that an AFSCA inspector doesn't know how to do, but the opposite is true as well. For example, AFSCA inspectors can establish VPs and see all kinds of things and have inspection skills. However, they cannot, for example, listen to telephones. It's a skill they don't have. On the other hand, they have an assessment competence that judicial police officers do not have. A judicial police officer finds out what he or she sees and he or she must make a record of it. In some cases, an inspector may appreciate and say, as long as he is a Catholic, Monsieur de Lamotte: "Don't sin anymore, my servant! I'm giving you an alert but not a PV." That's the difference between the two. But if you want to, it is certainly a consideration that can be made: should this competence be returned and assigned to certain persons of the AFSCA? In each province, federal judicial police officers are responsible for food security. In the province of Luxembourg there are two. Each provincial prosecutor's office also has a reference magistrate for food security. In Luxembourg, it's Mr. Gourdange. This is therefore not because of the absence of the authorities and the lack of allocation of powers in the province of Luxembourg. Some of you and some of the newspapers have spoken of a war between the powers. [[It is certainly not because the powers wanted it, but because it is easier to wage war than to bring peace.]] I would like to share with you some of the things that happened in this story between 2016-17. Mrs Lijnen, you said you were interpelled by what I said about the priority. The very difficult thing in the social debate is that one should never speak of priority in terms of criminal policy. When one pronounces that word, one commits a sin. But there is no way that we can continue to monitor everything equally intensely; neither our inspections, nor our police, nor our public prosecutors can do that. If that were the case, we would be a police state. You do not wish that, Mrs Lijnen, nor do I. That being said, over the whole period of time between the moment when the BFSA notified the Luxembourg parquet, October 2016, and the time when the search took place, on 28 February 2018, a period of 18 months, I would like to ask you what you are preparing yourself for 18 months. Maybe I shouldn't ask you that. Anyway, I'll speak for myself, Mrs. Linen. I can make a potpourriwet in 12 months if there is a statute of limitations for the Gang of Nivelles. Then I can just get that done and then I have to work really hard. I've only spoken for myself. I would just like to point out that 18 months is not so much. I won't be defensive, but you're forcing me, Mrs. Linen. In those eighteen months there is a period of ten months which interpelations me and which I cannot immediately say why it has taken so long. Let us think about this together, if I may, Mrs Lijnen. We're early October. At that time, the Luxembourg Public Prosecutor was informed and it was very quick to investigate the matter. Anyone who has any knowledge about criminal proceedings knows that this means that from that moment on, the court will have no impact whatsoever on the day-to-day course of that investigation. Either the parole board's doing the investigation and we've got a BOLO. Either the court will investigate and then we'll have a judicial investigation. In this case, the court shall investigate. It is October 17th when that happens, less than ten days after the parquet is informed. The first meeting held by the investigating judge with the police and the BFSA took place on 5 December. Then, between December 5th and the date that seems to me to be the next relevant, October 12th, of everything that the parquet does. In particular, the parquet will receive a new CV from the BFSA with the announcement that there may also be biomeat fraud. At the time when the public prosecutor gets the pv, it informs the investigating judge that the saisine needs to be expanded, as according to the BFSA there may also be bio-fraud and that saisine is being expanded. That's not in the timeline of the BFSA. This will be done on 26 April 2017. This is the result of a CV issued by the BFSA on 23 December 2016. That only arrives at the parquet, which is worn to the parquet, on March 10, 2017. On 26 April 2017, the saisine will be expanded, but this has nothing to do with the investigating judge, in the sense that the investigating judge will receive a clear question and initiate an investigation on 5 December 2016, i.e. he will have a meeting with the police and the BFSA, and on 12 October there will be a new meeting. Between those two dates, the court is doing a few things, but the court, which informs me, has no record of what the investigating judge is doing at the time. It is a period of ten months during which the secrecy of the investigation fully plays. My prosecutor's office has no information to give me about this ten-month period. From October 12, there are four meetings preparing for the February 28 search. The only thing that's in this whole line is this period. But this is where the secret of education plays its full part. I have no power to ask what happened. No one can tell me. If you care about the independence of the investigating judge and the secrecy of the investigation, it is not easy to find out more. Now, I will speculate with you, if I may, on the reasons that may have existed in this period. What does the prosecution say to me? I have already mentioned this last week in the presence of Mrs Lijnen in the Committee on Justice. "It should be noted that neither in the minutes of 5 October 2016, nor in the minutes of 3 December 2016, the AFSCA refers to a degree of urgency or a risk to food safety." I'm just quoting. I'm not saying it. I insisted, because I knew what you were going to question me. The Luxembourg prosecutor then told me that "the investigating judge, Mr. Maes, certified that he did not receive any communication from the AFSCA about a major health risk or a particular emergency to carry out the searches. Except to say that he is lying, I consider that to be the truth." This would explain that there was no danger in the home. I can only tell you what I'm reading. This is to tell you that the urgency came, according to the notes given to me, at the time when the searches took place. The investigating judge is independent. The minutes do not give the Prosecutor's Office the impression that there is a particular urgency. This, too, I read last week in my reply to Parliament: the only way for the prosecution to further stimulate the investigation is to seize the betting chamber. The Luxembourg prosecutor replied last week that he thought it would be tricky to do so and that for this reason - I read this statement last week - as there was no danger in the house, this was not done. From 12 October, we have again a view of the whole and the searches are prepared. That's my answer to your timing questions. There have been ten months in which the prosecution has given me some information, but I don't know what happened between the investigating judge, the police and the AFSCA. Maybe others have information, but, for me, this is a bit of a waste of time. I heard, as often, that it was a matter of means. You have understood that the prosecutor's office was not involved in the investigation, because, as soon as the case is investigated for a search, our criminal procedure requires that the investigating judge, alone, be seized of the investigation. He's the investigator and the chief of the judicial police. It is true that the public prosecutor's office in Luxembourg is suffering from underpopulation for the time being. The reasons are difficult to detect. There's a CSJ report on the subject right now that's secret, and I'm not going to talk about it. A judge in Brussels even argued that we should talk about it. It's not for lack of trying to recruit people. Since the prosecutor's office was not involved, it wasn't too important, so let's not make a story about it. With regard to the judicial police in the province of Luxembourg, it has a 93% staff (98 out of 105). That's the maximum in the country. It is not that the judicial police in the province of Luxembourg have a shortage of staff compared to other provinces. There are two references for food security. As far as the investigating judges are concerned, according to my checks today, Mr Senesael, Luxembourg has five. The last one was named in September 2017, which is why it escapes your data. There are five out of six. Most boroughs in the country have their full framework for investigating judges, but there are other boroughs where one out of the planned total is missing. The situation is not as dramatic. I do not think that one can say that the reason is to find in the shortage of staff during the ten-month period in question. I'm not sure that these ten months have been so catastrophic, Mrs. Lijnen. I do not see how these ten months are subject to bail. I have indicated the figures that concern them. I'm going to the secret of the investigation. We must make a clear distinction between the past and the future in the field of research secrecy. The past concerns the facts established by the BFSA and submitted to the court or tribunal. The judicial investigation concerning those facts should not be compromised by the exercise of the autonomous powers conferred on the BFSA. That's obvious. In this sense, the BFSA should exercise its autonomous powers as correctly as possible without interfering with the investigation of the facts of the past that are the subject of a judicial investigation. It seems to me that in other than routine investigations that are part of the daily routine, the BFSA shows caution and asks the court to see if there could be any interference. That's a normal way of doing things. Again, the autonomous powers of the BFSA stand. A good cooperation with the reference magistrate, I believe, is essential in order to achieve this. Why have I put so much emphasis on certain things? As I have said several times in committee, I think it is a question of how much a Minister of Justice can explain what is happening in the field and what affects the independence of the judiciary. I'd be happy to, but I'm not the investigating judge, and I'm not the parole officer either. The fact that the investigating judge is in charge of the survey independently today, and will do so for a long time, necessarily means that I cannot say much more than I am now saying, because I do not know anymore. That is what I wanted to tell you, Madam President, Mr President. Muriel Gerkens, president: Mr Diricks, would you like to bring in additional elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u44	I believe that I agree with what has just been said in the first place. It is clear that many people want to contribute to improving the functioning of the Agency, across all stakeholders. We are, of course, open to this. We want to work very hard on this. We shall do so in all transparency. As a preliminary remark, I would like to say that this transparency of the Agency has actually existed for a very long time. Questions are asked about control policy, how we work, about our results and about our inspection frequencies. We've been communicating this to everyone for a long time. Everyone knows what the agency is doing on site. Everyone knows what tools we work with. We put all the checklists we use on the net. We will explain all aspects of our operation in the advisory committee, in which all stakeholders, consumer and sector organisations are represented. I therefore believe that there is no problem of transparency with regard to society. I'll return to the questions that were asked. I believe that Mrs Gantois has pointed out in the first instance that we must ensure that we work well with all the administrations and all the actors involved in such companies. I believe that this is a very justified point. We have worked on this in the past. We have protocols and agreements with many other administrations to ensure that our activities are coordinated. Moreover, we must ensure that there are no gaps in what is happening on the ground. However, this does not alter the fact that it is possible to look at possible improvements there as well. You also asked me to what extent such an investigation differs in the field when it takes place with an investigating judge. I can tell you that this makes a very big difference. I haven't seen it myself, but the way the raid at the company was organised has allowed us to make a number of findings. We are talking here about ordinary checks or routine checks. We call that first-line checks, because this is more than just walking through the company. We are ensuring that these checks are carried out correctly. However, if we manage to get into a company with a lot of people at the same time via badges, anonymized so that we do not notice that they are inspectors, and if we manage to isolate a number of key figures, then we can only make findings that we do not do at normal checks. So there is a very big difference between a simple control or first-line control and a control where we can make the necessary findings with fifty people. If you know that with twenty people we can control 10% of the palettes for two days, then you can imagine that one inspector does not have the means to carry out those checks in the same thorough manner. I would like to remind you once again that it was well organised. We also know from other studies from the past that companies organise themselves in such a way that once auditors show up, not only those of the agency but also other auditors.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That investigation was, therefore, and remains, essential. As has just been said, it is thanks to the good cooperation between the parquet and the services of the BFSA that we have managed to do those business. Minister None said it: it would be interesting to have a magistrate. I have tried to explain in this dossier, on the basis of the data from our reference magistraat, how our people experience daily on the ground what it means to respect the secret of the investigation and to ensure that no suspicion is aroused. Maybe there's another way to look at that. That is why we have also proposed that this should be included in the audit. How do we deal with the secret of the investigation? What are our people allowed to do and what are they no longer allowed to do? However, I think that everyone here should be aware of the following: if the agency's staff are to take action, it is always to ensure that the fraudsters can be caught. I think this also says a lot about the mentality with which our people work. They are really trying to make sure that they do their own work, in the first line, along with the NOE, in a kind of second line, and, if it is really necessary, together with the Justice Department, always not to get in the way of vigilant justice. To what extent we have perhaps gone too far in this respect, we can certainly talk about this in the discussions with the Attorney General. We can express or explain a number of things there, or at least reach a consensus on what we can do. I will not go into what has been explained about the relationship between the court and what we are doing. Know, however, that we have always tried constructively to cooperate with the public prosecutor and that we will do so in the future. I think it is also important to consider the way in which we carry out the checks on the ground. If I am not mistaken, it was Mr Thiéry who pointed out that we should not try to come up with solutions right away, but first we should look at how we can improve controls in the field so that we not only do first-line checks correctly, but also have a very good chance of detecting fraudsters in our control activities. I think that is a very good approach. Let us look at the future and not pin ourselves on frequencies or hours, but look at the methodology we use to carry out such checks and see how, for example, we can monitor traceability. I have heard from many people present that citizens have the right to transparency. But at some point we are also bound by what we are told. I can assure you that a number of references were made here to the summer meeting, and that I myself personally received a very clear explanation from the judicial authorities as to what the judicial investigation meant, to where we could go and where we certainly were not allowed to go. I believe that this also creates the context in which we deal with the judicial investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u45	This is important. You say you've been given an explanation. Can you clarify that a little bit? It remains confusing for us why you are giving a different answer than the ministers. You say you have been given clear guidelines. Can you explain to the committee what guidelines these are?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u46	The document states that I was reminded of the principles of the judicial investigation. That's right. I have been told that I should be careful when making a number of statements, that I should bear in mind that there is still a judicial investigation going on and that, above all, I should not say or do anything that could jeopardize the judicial investigation. I have been reminded of this in a very clear way. The NOE's approach is to look at which files are important in our investigations. I mean with which files we should go directly to court and which files we can deal with ourselves. There have been several discussions here about the case of another operator, where meat was stopped in Kosovo. They made it look like we didn't do anything. No, an investigation has indeed been carried out, and what has happened has been verified. In the end, as we said in the press release, this was not about intentional fraud, but about human error. It is therefore impossible to compare these two things. This is a nice illustration of what I just said. If we suspect that there is more fraud going on, we will go straight to the court because we know that it has resources that we do not have. In a number of other cases we can handle it ourselves and we do so. We are being treated here as if we were not taking any other action. We are certainly taking other actions. I'd like to invite you to visit the Advisory Committee's website. The NOE explains what actions it takes. Unfortunately, I do not have the figures for 2017, but in 2016 500 investigations, files, started at NOE. It cannot therefore be said that we are simply letting everything go on our side and that we are not taking action in cases where we have information that there is a problem. We call them "first-line checks" by people who have been properly trained to do so. Mrs. Dedry said she also knows that these people are doing a good job. I do not think there is anything to be said about this, and I think it is right to point out that in a number of cases it is simply necessary to have more resources to deploy more people, so that such a case of fraud can be brought to light. As far as the control of biomeat is concerned, it is clear that this is a regional competence. The certification bodies responsible for the certification of bio also carry out the checks on the classification as bio.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u47	If I heard what Mr Geens was saying about this, it was the AFSCA that, in December 2016, reported bio fraud. That's you. I'd like to be sure I understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u48	We did indeed transfer a pv on organic meat to the court because we were told that there might be a problem. Because one of our people found out, he's had the reflex to produce a P.V. and transmit it to the court. That was indeed based on information we had received from Certisys.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u49	And you only communicate it to the judicial authorities, not the Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u50	No, Mr. Nollet, Certisys works for the Walloon Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u51	Yeah, but what about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u52	So if Certisys, who works for the Walloon Region, in a discussion with our staff, says that there can be a fraud with organic labelling, our inspector will say: "Well, to be sure, I'm still going to draw up a report for justice."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u53	And for 15 months, Veviba continued to sell organic labeled meat that wasn't?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u54	I don't know that. Certisys is responsible for the controls on bio, not us. Is that clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u55	Yes! But it is because I wanted to see, as it was articulated with the intervention of Minister Geens on 23 December 2016, if from that date at least we put an end to the sale by Veviba of "organic" meat that was not organic?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u56	To be very clear: Certisys informed us that they had big suspicions, if not more.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u57	December 2016?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u58	No, not in December but in June 2016. In June 2016, we contacted local services to try to understand how purely technical issues worked, saying that there was already an investigation, that there were suspicions. They came back in September, saying they transmitted their file, telling us that the file was already under investigation at that time. When Certisys sent us the file, he was already at the investigation with a record number and the name of the investigating judge. And we sent their case back to the prosecution office of Neufchâteau, saying, "This is the information we have from Marche, Neufchâteau, Luxembourg, de Certisys." This is the exact situation regarding the communication of information between the Region, Certisys, etc. And at the June meeting, the Region, SPW DG Agri, was present with Certisys on this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u59	Good. You go back to June and it is true that this is even more precise, which is normal since Mr. Geens then had only part of the information, so no problem until then. But, from that moment on, June or September 2016, I suppose that Veviba... that someone intervenes to stop this malpractice and that, at the very least, we stop selling and making profit on something that is labelled "bio" when it is not!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u60	But do you understand that bio is not our responsibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u61	Mr Geens, perhaps it is up to you to answer us? There's a problem that's not sanitary, okay, but it's still amazing! We are not talking about export fraud or dates when there is no danger. In this case, products are sold that are not organic, with a "bio" label. The information is transmitted, of course, but nothing changes. This is an absolutely new element! Muriel Gerkens, Chair: And questioning. I will give the floor to Mr de Lamotte, who is asking you about this famous coordination which is necessary between the federal services, but also between them and the Regions. Then we shall give the floor to Mr Diricks for the end of his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u62	Madam President, I am trying to follow the reasoning. In the documents that have been submitted and which we have been able to consult the annexes, some analyses have been carried out on behalf of large areas. Some documents date back to May 2016. It states: "Traceability marks: poor score. Traceability test for organic beef falls: more products were used than those of these carcasses." Obviously, several pieces were not labeled "bio" until after. This is reflected in these documents which have been made available to parliamentarians. Who warned who? Muriel Gerkens, President: Mr Diricks and Mr Dochy, it may be interesting to recall how you are concerned with the issue of traceability.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u63	That is to say, we are asking our USE – but Mr Dochy will possibly correct me – how this works because we have doubts as to how the organic label is granted by Certisys, to which we provide an explanation and who is responsible for the organic certification. For our part, we have given all the technical information to Certisys, for example on how traceability is organised. It was then up to them to continue their investigation into the issue of organic certification. They then questioned us. By gaining consciousness, we felt that it was necessary to inform the prosecution. Then we drew up a report on the basis of the information we had received. When we talk about adding bio, we simply passed on the information that was brought to our knowledge, to prevent it from remaining somewhere in our services without being followed up, given that we are not competent. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: I repeat, Minister, with regard to the relationship between the federal and regional level of power, that it would be interesting, given such findings and in the presence of cross-jurisdictional but different competences, to consider how to ensure that the consumer will be protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u64	I said exactly the same thing, Mr Nollet, in response to last week's parliamentary questions on bio. You said it was new, but I said exactly the same thing and there's nothing new.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u65	What concerns me is information about June.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u66	I don't judge, but Mrs Lijnen was there, I said exactly the same thing. I haven't revealed anything I haven't said yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u67	I didn't say you said anything else. For me, what is important in this case, once the information is there, is who does what, and who had to do what. That's what counts. That's why I allowed myself, not to cut you, Mr. Geens, but to cut off the AFSCA, to see what she had set in motion at her level. She said it was not September but June. That's even more precise. She said that the Walloon Region had the information and that it was on its side that things had to move. I hope, but we will see, that for 15 months we have not allowed organic labels to sell meat that was not. I agree, Mr. Geens, it's not you. I want to point this out to see what information we had. I have the information. How did this work out between you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u68	Mr. de Lamotte asked about the audit reports and their conclusion. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, indeed, in every audit that a certifying body carries out, there are non-compliances called A and B. But in no case, to my knowledge, have they refused certification. A certifying body comes to the facilities, conducts the audit, makes remarks and chooses whether or not to give the certification. Therefore, even with the findings that have been included in the audits, the certifying body may decide, if there is an action plan, to give the certificate to the operator. The only thing we wanted to demonstrate is that the certifying bodies that were there approved the operation of Veviba and the delivery of the certificate. You can therefore see that on the site, not only was the Agency present, but also the certifying bodies (BRC, IFS, Certisys for bio) were present. Everyone gave a positive assessment about Veviba. The Agency was therefore not the only one concerned. In addition, some operators who purchase from Veviba had on-site controllers who controlled the operation of the company. In other words, there were a lot of people there to control what was going on there. There were representatives of the Agency representing the official authority, certifiers (certifiers A, certifiers B), auditors responsible for informing other actors. It should not be said, therefore, that we were lax or that there were few controls. In fact, on the whole, a lot of actors controlled Veviba. That is why we have added the audit reports. We wanted to show you that it was not a single organization that controlled Veviba.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u69	Mr. Diricks, who do the certifiers represent?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u70	When you look at the certification system in Belgium, you have specifications, for example the organic specifications. Some certifying bodies may be accredited to carry out the inspection in the framework of specifications, e.g. organic. This accreditation is given by BELAC, an organisation that supervises all certifying bodies in Belgium, which ensures, for example, that auditors have the necessary qualifications to carry out the audits properly. BELAC also checks the independence of the OICs from the people they control. Is my answer clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u71	If I understand correctly, the certifiers define themselves on the basis of a specification and are accredited by BELAC to check things out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u72	The specifications. That's right. There was also a comment on veterinarians. I think we still need to be careful not to generalize when an organization's representative makes a statement. I believe that most of the mission officers who work for us are doing their job properly. And it's not a person who has an idea about how the mission managers work... And, to my knowledge, but I can be mistaken, that person has never been given a mission himself. So I don't know what she was talking about. Mission managers who work for the Agency are trained. In time, they were appointed for life, if I'm not mistaken. Now, the system has been changed and they have to respond to specifications and are regularly evaluated and, if necessary, measures are also taken with regard to these mission managers. So there are a lot of things that are done to ensure the work of both mission managers and Agency staff. I think it is very far to say that there would be collusion between the Agency's staff or the Agency's mission managers. Indeed, Mrs. Dedry, our people are trying to do a very good job. You should also bear in mind that they can do their job very well because we have developed a quality system within the agency that evolves very regularly and ensures that the quality of work is steered along in such a way that everyone works in the same way on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u73	Is there anything you can say about the reduced number of people you work with? The report says you work with a hundred people less. The question of both of us was, what did these people do? How were these tasks distributed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u74	The agency consists of: Control policy, Control, Laboratories, General Services. We have made a more or less equal distribution of the efforts that each Directorate-General had to make. In the case of DG Control, we have tried to solve it in a different way, in the sense that we have merged our provincial control units, or some of them anyway, which meant that there were larger geographical entities. By merging these local control units we have actually saved not on the people who do the work on the ground, but on the superstructure, the management, in those local control units. What have we tried to preserve, even though we didn't manage to do it one hundred percent? As many people as possible on site and fewer people in the superstructure, because we have moved from eleven provincial control units to nine local control units, so we have collected part of the redundant personnel at a different level than the terrain. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: In your report, what do you mean when you say that in recent years there has been a concentration of efforts towards export and therefore a decrease in your means for controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u75	No, if I am right, we said in the report that there is a savings round and that there were other priorities in which we had to invest. That's how we put people and resources into the counseling cell. I would like to give an additional explanation of the claim that we would be some sort of promotional body for exports. That's not true at all. From the start of the agency, the export promotion is carried out by the Regions. If a foreign government considers it necessary to have contact with the official bodies, it is we who are addressed, because we deliver the certificates and we are actually the partner with whom to negotiate. It's not about promotion. The BFSA is obliged to negotiate with those countries, for example on the content of the certificate. What, of course, requires an additional effort for us is the fact that these certificates often contain additional requirements which we must guarantee and which may vary from one country to another. That's the point I wanted to make. We have made efforts at various levels, and we have also made efforts at the local level to keep as many people on the ground as possible, for example by cutting the LCE superstructures; we have reorganized them, so that there are fewer sector heads and fewer PCE heads, but more people on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u76	May I ask for further clarification before we start the debate? Could you be a little more specific about the budgets? We have asked both the Minister and you that question. There are own resources and there are dotations. For us, it is important to know whether or not the donations have been reduced. Has the budget been reduced or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u77	I think the Minister gave the figures. I don't have them all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u78	I didn't get the numbers from the dots. I didn't get the distinction. Are the amounts reduced or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u79	There's been an evolution in the dotations that I don't know by heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u80	Do you have the figures, Minister, of just the amounts without the means of operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u81	Yes, they are:- in 2014, the allocation was 107 million and the own revenue was 77 million euros; - in 2015, the allocation was 95 million and the own revenue was 76 million euros; - in 2016, the allocation was 87 million and the own revenue was 79 million euros; - in 2017, the allocation was 85 million and the own revenue was 89 million euros. You'll allow me to round up. If you wish, I will provide you with the detailed figures. Jean-Marc Delizée, Chair: I should be grateful if you would forward these figures to the secretariat of the committee, Mr.Minister, so as to communicate them to all members.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u82	There's just one question Mr. Diricks didn't answer. At no time did he pass the information on to the Minister. While there are different types of fraud, confirmed in November, that this also concerns the organic sector, that you are multiplying the transmissions to justice and that is therefore a serious problem, to use the terms you used in August, why at no time do you inform the minister? That's one of my questions. I didn't get an answer in the first round.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u83	Nor did I have an answer about the time line I asked for, in the same topo as Mr. Nollet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u84	In the past, the agreement has always been that we would inform the Minister if there was a danger to public health. Then we had to notify him immediately. Here we are dealing with a different context, where it is also about economic fraud. Until the recent past, there were no concrete agreements on what had to be communicated, except for the facts that would effectively pose a public health problem. That is also why we informed the Minister on 6 March of the fact that we had made a number of findings which showed that meat was not fit for human consumption. Then, of course, we will inform the Minister and at the same time organise the recall. In this case it was about the recall of a quantity of minced meat that was sold and in which the stab wounds were processed. Muriel Gerkens, president: Mr Nollet, anyway, Mr Geens will have to leave us. It can still take a few minutes to answer questions that should still be addressed to it. Does any of you have a question to Minister Geens? Then I will give you the floor for the reply anyway. But now let him answer and then abandon us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u85	Minister, can you transfer to Minister Peeters the question about the Inspectorate of Social Laws and the number of complaints? Really, I wish I had those answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u86	I have two questions. One is related to what the colleague has just said. This morning, the information was that a contact would be made with Minister Peeters. Otherwise, it would be Minister Geens who would respond to Mr. Peeters' competencies. Are we still in this perspective? If we are not doing this and Minister Peeters is coming, I have questions for him. Otherwise, of course, I put them to Minister Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u87	I can only answer the questions you asked earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u88	So we have a problem. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: First, are there any questions for Mr. Geens?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u89	I have another question. What is the nature - I am not asking for the content - of document D5 that was removed from the documents that were to be made available to us? Why?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u90	Look, this is just the secret of the investigation. The reason why a certain document is no longer in the file is not revealed. Even if I could, I shouldn't answer you. And so, I'm not answering you. I don't know, actually. But in law, I don't know how to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u91	What about the nature of the document?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u92	As far as I know, it's a paper. I'm sorry, I don't want to make sense of humor. I really can't say.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u93	We can do a little humor. There's no problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u94	I'm always afraid my humor will not be understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u95	We understood the humor. There's no problem with that. But what was that about? Not the content, but what subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u96	I'm looking at my D.A. who can get close, if he knows, and if I can say anything, I'll do it to please you. It was an internal AFSCA document. That was not the nature of a record. Madam President, should I read Mr Peeters' answers or should he do so himself in committee? Muriel Gerkens, President: Mr Geens has the answers to the three questions put to Mr Peeters earlier. He can read them now or we can wait for Mr Peeters to be in committee. The issues concern, inter alia, the Social Inspectorate, displaced workers, the regularisation of workers from Romania, etc. There was a discussion between the ministers concerned: Mr. De Backer for Social Fraud, Mr Peeters for Social Inspection, Mrs De Block for ONSS. Finally, it was considered that Mr. Geens could read the answers to the previous questions and that Ms. De Block could also answer today if necessary. Or we reserve a real moment to discuss all of this. Mr Delizée and I will try to make this happen on Tuesday or Wednesday morning next week. That's where we're at. Are we asking Minister Geens to read?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u97	Can we receive a written copy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u98	Personally, a written answer suits me. I've already spoken about Test-Achats.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u99	A copy of the written answer also suits me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u100	To be forwarded to the secretariat of the commission, please. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: On behalf of the committee, I would like to urge Minister Peeters to be available at the beginning of next week: Tuesday morning or Wednesday morning, at the latest. All the other questions in the Economy are still waiting to be dealt with. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: Do members of the commission still want to respond, but not to Minister Geens' responses?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u101	Mr President, Madam President, I do not wish to relaunch the debate, but I would like to react in a synthetic way on five points, firstly with the aim of clarifying things, and secondly with a view to reviving them. First element. On the side of the MR bench, we said we shouldn't confuse. Veviba is the fraudster, not the minister. I totally agree. But let's put things back in their place! It is the AFSCA that must ensure that there is no fraud on the market and its responsible minister has political responsibility for it. It is clear and that is how we must understand our intervention. Second element. I hear it's easy to repeat the story a posteriori. We are, of course, in agreement with that statement. But should I remind you once again that we are ex post facto fipronil and that we have denounced inertia, since the majority acts as if the fipronil crisis had not taken place? It's not right. Three. Veviba was also mentioned in China. I am not trying the minister and I do not want to highlight an element that speaks of counterproductiveness, but it is a policy that reorients health resources, and they, whether logistical, financial or human, are being returned to foreign trade. These powers are regional. This is a failure when we do not go to the essential, the priority and the indispensable that food security remains. Fourth element. The Minister refused to allow AFSCA to be placed under the supervision of Public Health. I do not share his point of view, but it is legitimate in a democracy like ours. We can be happy to see her like that. You say that two thirds of agriculture ministers in Europe have this competence. On the other hand, you say – I do not like it at all and it is even unacceptable – that Mr.Demotte's assessment was not positive. As a result, the AFSCA was withdrawn from Health and transferred to Agriculture. I do not agree with your observation, Mr. Ducrame. I would like to recall a few points. Thus, Magda Aelvoet was the architect of the AFSCA and it was Rudy Demotte who was the builder of it, since it was he who took the royal decrees of execution to allow the AFSCA to function. What happens in 2007? Before I was a member of the Federal Parliament, I was a member of the Walloon Parliament for ten years. With a lot of modesty and humility, being from a very agricultural region – for the anecdote, I was called the MP for the fields – I was interested in agriculture. I have experienced the fifth and sixth reforms of the state, as a result of which certain powers have been transferred to the Regions. What was left at the federal level in the Agriculture shell? Much more, Mr. Minister. And the MR got the federal agriculture. We still had to put something in the shell and so we went to get the AFSCA, which we brought back from Health to Agriculture. As I said at the first meeting, at the time of Rudy Demotte and Laurette Onkelinx, healthy eating was more than a slogan or a wish, it was a priority with day-to-day management of health security, with a National Health Nutrition Plan that they initiated. To say that the balance sheet was negative to explain a transfer to agriculture is not acceptable. The real problem lies in the fact that the consumer must be certain that health prevails over the economy when it comes to food controls. I will conclude with your policy note 2018, Minister. We went looking for her. What is on page 28 about the export service, as you were talking about it? "The government has released 1.5 million euros in the budget, and this as of 2016." Words are important. "Export personnel services have almost doubled and also have additional means of operation." It is you who say so in your policy note 2018. It is not a diversion – perhaps the word is strong – but, in any case, it is a strong reorientation and, in our view, there is a non-productive nature of these policies on health and, above all, on the monitoring of food health. Last item. You say, minister, we're going to "increase the controls," but we're not going to give it the means. For us, it's a bit of a nonsense. It's a new control plan. First, will this control plan be submitted for advice to the AFSCA Scientific Committee? At the same time, you tell us that there will be an audit, the results of which are expected for the summer. Should this control plan be put in place prior to the audit? Should we wait for the audit unless, of course, a risk to consumer health is imminent? That's all I wanted to say right now, Madam President, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u102	Madam Minister, Ministers, thank you for your reply. I would also like to thank the representatives of the Food Agency. This is a long meeting. I understand it's not possible to answer all the questions... I have remained hungry for further clarification and clarification of certain issues. Minister, I am pleased to hear that you want the reform to take place in all transparency and that you will involve the members of the committee. I hope that we will be able to follow this closely and get all the information that is available, for which I thank you in advance. Mr Diricks, I may have asked too many questions. However, I would have hoped that you would answer the question that everyone is asking, in particular how the two ministers next to you, one of whom has just left, could continue to claim that you could have taken action. In your reply, I have heard no reason why you did not take action, and so I remain hungry. However, I think this is a very important element. If you could have taken additional actions or carried out additional checks, and you did not and you do not explain them, then my question remains whether there are other cases where you might be able to carry out more checks, but you do not. I think this is important. Nor did I get an answer to the question as to why falsifying labels is not a sufficiently serious fact to carry out further checks. I believe these are pertinent questions that remain open. I understand from the Minister that the audit will take a decision on this. We shall follow it closely. I regret that we do not get an answer to these pertinent questions, even after a long time of pressing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u103	Mr President, I would like to give you a number of reactions. Mr Ducrame, as far as the budget is concerned, I appreciate your way of drowning the whale. It's a little big. To say that this did not decrease, while at first you did not quote the 2014 figures! Now that we have it, we can do the calculation. We must do the calculation and not forget to take inflation into account. Over the period 2015-2016-2017, combined with a budget that would be constant, taking into account inflation in 2014, the budget shows a decrease of $56 million for the Federal Agency. We agree with this figure (granting plus other funding) It's not nothing to take 56 million out of them in three years! It should not be surprising that there are some concerns, tensions or difficulties in responding to all missions. That's right! I appreciate that we have been able to put these figures down: over three years, 56 million less than we have said that budgets have increased. You tell us as the only argument about your refusal to transfer guardianship to Health that "it makes sense. It's in agriculture, and that must remain so." No, it doesn't make sense. The best evidence is that, historically, this subject was a matter of public health. This shows where the hierarchy is in the missions to be carried out. It is first and foremost the protection of health. Minister De Block, I'm talking to you. I really think that at the turn of this second scandal and this important malfunction which we are talking about in committee, the previous one being the fipronil in August, I think it is up to you to take the ball in hand, because it is neither normal nor acceptable that it remains as it is. It must be made clear that the hierarchy within the missions must lead to the health department first taking charge of this matter and that, "logically", in the words of Minister Ducrame, "it must be on the side of public health." I've heard a former AFSCA official say that, too. I believe that in terms of the strong signal sent to the population, it seems to me to be a minimum measure. Minimal! Indeed, we also speak symbolically when we do politics. Minister Ducrame, I invite you to reconsider your views on this matter. Minister De Block, I invite you to take up the matter and consider that you must act with your colleagues to make a change in the matter. I would also like to thank the colleagues who have highlighted - Mr Senesael recently - the policy notes. You can't hide from it, Mr. Ducrame. There was a time when you publicly assumed the fact that it was good to work and that the AFSCA was oriented to export sales work is not its priority mission. Today, it is apparent that this is a problem and that posts have actually been devoted to missions that have been carried out to the detriment of others. Inevitably! I'm not saying it could have avoided the scandal. But the Agency got into trouble from the moment it was put into a role that was not its own. I thank you, however, Mr. Ducrame, for recognizing, black on white, in your reply that "the system has failed." You said it and you took my word back, which, I think, makes it possible to envisage changes in depth, necessary changes after this kind of crisis. I would also like to thank Minister Geens, who is no longer present, but you will convey to him, for agreeing to put this issue back in the National Security Plan. I did not appreciate him saying that the National Security Plan reflects the priorities of the past. I prefer a government to anticipate. We can't anticipate everything, it's clear. But from there to say that this is the priority of the past... In short, this topic will return to emergencies as defined in the National Security Plan, which is good news. This is also good news for the AFSCA, as it was noted in the appendices to the report. Mrs De Block, I also thank you for your answers. I have received an oral confirmation of what was read in the AFSCA report, namely that today the extent of historical fraud is not yet known (i.e. since when this company was operating by incorporating parts of animals unfit for human consumption into the meat). It has not been known since when, which means that a question remains in the matter. I assume that the question also relates to the geographical extent. Why do you think I'm allowing myself to mention this element? Because you said we have a look at the crises of the last few months, especially in Luxembourg. However, the public health figures for Belgium did not show anything. But what about the countries where there is export? Have these products been exported or not? Is it certain that it is not for export that this type of product was more intended? Indeed, you have given figures for Luxembourg and Belgium. But in one document we talk about Kosovo, Côte d'Ivoire and Hong Kong, and in other documents we talk about many other countries, including the Congo. I would therefore like to know what the geographical extent of this export-related phenomenon is, but also the health problem of the products that have been exported. I heard the AFSCA's response regarding the non-information of its trusteeship. I assume, Mr. Ducrame, that in your opinion, the AFSCA should have informed you of the situation, even if it was only economic fraud. It was still a major economic fraud in a sector that falls within your jurisdiction. You're the Minister of Agriculture. You're not the Minister of Health. To the limit, it was more necessary to inform you, given the extent of this fraud that was economic. You will at least have to acknowledge that, on this issue, you have failed to adequately address the FASD, at least in terms of information. I'm not going to go back to bio, because we've already had an opportunity to have an exchange on this. On the other hand, I would like to know whether specific work has been done, either within the department of Mr Ducrame, within the AFSCA, or within the two for all the other meat companies that trade with Euro-IDA, the famous company located in Kosovo. I assume you both followed the news last night at RTBF. It was amazing! Death threats to journalists from the company's boss. However, unless I am mistaken, what links Veviba and Vanlommel is that the same company is in contact with Kosovo. You say that on the one hand, it is a human error and on the other, it is a system. I didn't investigate. I trust you for this difference, but what links the two issues is that it is the same door to Kosovo. It is the same border but it would be the same importer, and therefore the same firm. My question is whether you also worked on this side, namely to look at what other companies were trading with this firm. Why do I ask that? Because there's something about the boss of Vanlommel – I guess it was Mr Vanlommel who had been interviewed, I don't know anymore – who, when he's registered at RTBF, says, "There are customers for outdated meat." He claims that on RTBF antennas. He also said: "But we don't do it. We did it by mistake." But there are customers looking. On the Belgian market, firms work with people who buy outdated meat. I would like at least to check with AFSCA or Minister Ducrame that you have done the job, as they say, to check all those other companies that, in the meat sector, work with the company whose RTBF has highlighted the malfeasances at the level of Kosovo. I still have a question about self-control for AFSCA. I looked into the stuffings. I did not look at all the details, but when Veviba knows that her meat has been blocked and destroyed in Kosovo, logically, in the next self-control, she must point out that there is a problem. If the control device is based on self-checking, normally self-checking must indicate this. Of course, since it's a fraud, it doesn't. But you indirectly control self-control, you have to see at that time that self-control is no longer reliable, which in itself is a problem that you may have to report to justice. In any case, it was meant to allow you to act again. Since self-checking did not indicate that a cargo had been rejected at entry into Kosovo, self-checking had to report it somewhere. I didn't find that in the file. I wish you could be specific about this. But perhaps, in the nights spent reading the documents, we missed. It's very possible. There's 4,000 pages. But I wish you could answer us on that. Another point on which I would like the AFSCA to be able to answer: in the documents as we were able to consult them at the Registry, you stop the check on 15 March. That's normal, that's the date you're sending the documents. But you say that on March 16, you must receive part of the medical tests on yeasts and moulds. I just wanted to make sure there was nothing new about it. If there's anything, you tell us. If there's nothing, we're saving time. You'll answer us right after. I have already asked the question about countries other than Kosovo. Slovenia, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, etc. are also mentioned. On laboratories that are contacted by Belgian companies, when a Belgian laboratory is contacted to do an analysis and it detects a problem, it has an obligation to inform you. What happens when a Belgian firm no longer works with Belgian laboratories? For example, she works with German, Dutch or French laboratories. Is there still the same obligation to inform AFSCA if a health problem is discovered in the samples tested? Is there the same obligation, the same legal force, or not? I am told that since fipronil, the sector has increased the use of foreign laboratories to circumvent the mandatory information that a Belgian laboratory has. I just want to take advantage of your presence to check, because for meat, it can also have a significant impact. Last question to AFSCA: Why, in the Vanlommel case, did you pass on the information to the judiciary only in January, when you have been informed since August 2017 of the problem at the Kosovo border? Why this deadline between August 2017 and January?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u104	Thank you to the ministers for their answers. I have a few more questions. Mr Diricks, we talked about the timeline of the decisions and contacts you have had on these files, between you and justice, or you and the firm. I wanted to know how many times you mentioned the fact that an action discovered by your services should be reported to the public health office. Can you tell me about this retroactivity line? With regard to the rotation of the controllers, I referred earlier to the fact that the controllers were present on the Veviba site. We note that two thirds of the checks were carried out by the same two persons. Is this normal given the number of checks that have been carried out and taking into account the principle of rotation of the controllers? As regards the responsibility of internal self-control to operators, are there any specific checks in the procedure to determine the risk of fraud? Do you take any specific steps at this level? If we're only formatted for an information search, it's obvious that the company knows what you're going to ask. How do you try to detect fraud? The fipronil case came out before today's case. I feel like between the fipronil file and this one, it's business as usual. The actions requested by the combined committees were not implemented. Commitments had been made but new arrangements had not been implemented. That is why I ask that the audit be carried out with parliamentary scrutiny. I don't want business as usual anymore. The minister told me that he would present the terms of reference and that the audit would be presented to Parliament, but I would like to go further than that. There is real substantive work to be done and I would like Parliament to be involved. I hear the minister's commitments, which I find somewhat timid. I would therefore like to see agreement on the definition of a number of procedures. Before and during audits, it would be good if Parliament could hear the auditors and the persons in charge of the audit to move forward and have a construction for the future. Madam President, these are my reactions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u105	I have three very brief replies. I shall begin with Mr Diricks. It's not because I take a positive view of your employees that I think the BFSA is without sin. I shall confine myself to a very important button. You always mention the secret of the investigation and you always explain that it's difficult. This is indeed the most important knot. This must be made very clear to me as the first point and you make it clear that it is not clear to you. The Minister also believes that you could have done more without violating the secret of the investigation. That's what bothers me the most. For the rest, I fully agree with your demand for more resources and the commitment of more people. There you have an ally in us. A very brief reply for Minister De Block. You say quite honestly that there was "probably" no danger to public health, but that you cannot say that with certainty. My thoughts then are that I am not reassured with a fraud of such a caliber. Finally, Minister Ducarme, there is a proverb that says: "Repentance comes after sin." But there's also a proverb that says, "A donkey doesn't hit the same stone twice." As my colleagues have already said, we were here a few months ago, with the fipronil crisis. A number of things were also announced that could have been adapted a long time ago. But even now, you are moving this forward to an audit, of which we will have the results in the summer. For everything that we agree on, you have just said that we agree on a number of things across party boundaries. You do not need an audit. You could have done that already, and you could have done that between the fipronil crisis and now. There is another proverb, to put it in bad French. You are very 'dur de comprenure', we say, when it comes to our arguments for bringing the BFSA to Health. Finally, you did not answer my question about the pressure from the Verbist firm on the cabinet. You expressly say not to give in to pressure and never to do so. It'd be wrong if it weren't for you! My question was whether there has been any pressure and whether that pressure is still there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u106	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u107	You say no now, but you did not just answer that question. Muriel Gerkens, President: Mr President, I would like to make a few additional points. I understand from reading the report and from the discussions that we have had that it was necessary to consider how to estimate whether, following various findings, there is a risk to health. In my view, in the event of labelling fraud, there is a health risk, given the non-compliance of the product. Will the required audits take these health risks into account by increasing controls? In the terms of reference of the two audits requested, how will small producers be represented among the actors present around the table? Mr Diricks tells us that "there is some transparency since all our checklists and all the elements are available on the site." Small producers and artisans tell me that this is constantly changing and that it is impossible for them to follow these permanent changes. In addition, some changes lend themselves to interpretation and provide different responses at different times. These are important elements when drawing up a specification in order to focus on another method of working, supporting and accompanying artisans and small producers. I would like to know how the audit, in coordinating government policies, will link prices to market prices. In this context, what is the value of keeping frozen meat for 10 to 12 years? The only logical explanation is the purchase of a product at a very low price that will be valued. We have excellent fresh meat produced every day that we could export, but we have been exporting frozen meat for ten years and that will not be stewing after thawing. These elements should be taken into account when drawing up the specifications. And finally, just one more thing, for the continuation of our work and also to respond to the requests of parliamentarians! In previous crises, including H1N1 influenza, etc., in the Health Committee, we opted for the following formula: every 15 days, we take one or two hours of debriefing, to take stock, how our intentions, exchanges, questions and answers materialize, without necessarily having to file questions. This allowed us to take stock and we did it three or four times, the time to control the order of drugs, vaccines and all that. I'm thinking maybe it's a method of work that deserves reflection. I am not asking you for an answer immediately. However, if we spent two hours every 15 days setting out the situation in a structured manner, it would make it possible to follow up intelligently and avoid the filing of 36 questions that are mixed with other questions or to redo barouds like this. There! Minister, Minister and Mr.Diricks, I give you the floor to respond if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u108	Madam President, I will reverse the order. I can answer the questions as follows. I heard Mr. Nollet and the other environmentalists. They said the same thing about the risks. So there was a potential risk. To know what that meant, simulations have been done on the cutting meat, the meat from a stab wound that was in another slaughterhouse in Zottegem. There was evidence that, as was thought, there could indeed be contamination of that meat from the stab wound. In it were also found the germs, in five of the seven samples, which were expected. That is reassuring, because at the same time there is a surveillance by our Scientific Institute of Public Health throughout our country. We have requested separate figures from the province of Luxembourg, because Veviba also sold to the people around that company and there might have been a difference in measurements there. The results were all reassuring, as the analyses have shown. Mr Nollet, you say that there would have been no problem under the supervision of health, no fraud, really.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u109	I said it probably wouldn't change anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u110	Does that mean that there would have been no fraud? That's not true. The only difference was that it was said that on the 6th of March, I was notified before Mr.Ducarme.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u111	I don't think your policy note would have included so many sentences on export.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u112	I'll talk about exporting. Mr Nollet, for the sake of consistency, I will first address my comments on the internal aspects and then on the foreign aspects. Indeed, there has been no exports since December 2016, because the fraud in question has been detected in Kosovo. Because then a label fraud was discovered in Kosovo, on 8 March there was a RASFF, the warning mechanism in Europe. The other countries were alerted. In the Netherlands, we made a recall of the cowtails. Those tails were taken out of the market there, too. Of course, that is only about a limited number, because every cow has only one tail. So far, nothing from the other countries has been reported that anything has been found. Mr Nollet, I think it's a little weird. You say this is similar to the fipronil crisis. I, too, see a resemblance from this bench. In the fipronil crisis, there was an egg with too much fipronil. Correct, the substance must not be in the egg. You spent the whole vacation yelling about "la crise du fipronil." Now you're talking in every sense about crise et scandal en scandal et crisis. I see the resemblance here. This is the "crise-Nollet." You're in overacting. What bothers me is that it scares the people of Europe with our meat. You say that the small farmers are being hit and that these people will not have enough money. Contribute to that yourself by not saying that there is fire! You make so much smoke that people abroad must think there is fire. That is not the case so far. Mr Nollet, I tell you, stop it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u113	I'm not going to restart the carousel for a ride. Some elements of observation were discussed. I know that we must leave the last word to Parliament. So I will not react to what has been said. However, I can simply indicate my willingness to direct this audit and these reforms towards a relief for small producers. As part of the consultation we are conducting, we have studied the conclusions of my published FPS study on beef and veal, which I would like to make available to Parliament. Here too, in the framework of the concertation, the idea is to choose a "small craftsman" orientation. One of the actors we have met and with which we have exchanges is the Federation of Butchers, beyond the small farmers with whom we maintain contact. I hear your proposal, Madam President. Technically, there are still a few questions on which Mr Diricks must provide answers to Parliament. I think I will share the exercise with Parliament. I will come to Parliament with the elements of the audit's recommendation, and with the lines of reform that I intend to integrate. But I think that if we are to debate this issue again, we will have to do so in the light of the recommendations and the audit, not in advance, which would not be working in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u114	I do not know if I have upset Mr Nollet about his question about Kosovo and the links between the files. As you know, a judicial investigation is still under way and it is impossible for us to rule on it. Indeed, anything we say now could have consequences in the investigation in general. I know you blame me, like Mrs. Dedry, for using this argument. You've all witnessed what happened before. Mr. Geens had to ask his magistrate what he could or could not say in an investigation to keep judicial secrecy. If the Minister is to ask such a question, you should imagine how careful we, as officials in the field, want to deal with that secret of the investigation. It is not that I do not want to be transparent here; I want to ensure that we are able to ensure that the research does indeed come to a successful conclusion. I therefore hope that the judicial investigation can be completed quickly. Then it will also be very clear to you that a number of things that we are not saying here today had all the pertinence, but that we cannot answer them at the moment. I come to your second question about self-control. In fact, our compulsory notification system is a European obligation enshrined in Belgian legislation: anyone who is aware of a problem relating to the safety of the food chain outside its control must warn public order and the authorities. We have added to this general principle, an additional layer for laboratories. The European obligation for operators is therefore notified. But we have identified some problems and we have planned an additional layer in Belgium. Thus, Belgian legislation requires laboratories to notify. Of course, since this legislation is Belgian, we can enforce it only by laboratories in our country. This is a drawing of our various options for mandatory notification. However, it is clear that the primary responsibility of operators is to make such notifications. We could very well have contented ourselves with European legislation, but we have proposed to provide for an additional layer in Belgium. As far as the Vanlommel case is concerned, in fact, we had a notification. The Kosovar authorities have obviously warned us. We've exchanged information. We conducted an investigation. It turned out that there were good reasons to believe the firm and that it was a human error. Nevertheless, we still wrote a VP because the products intended for export were not compliant. If we write a VP - in one of the appendices to the report, we describe the system of administrative fines - the VP is automatically sent to the Administrative Fine Commissioner who proposes an administrative fine and sends the VP to the prosecution. That is why, after investigation, we concluded that there was no fraud, but that there was a problem of non-compliance and we sent, via the Commissioner for Administrative Fines, the PV to the prosecution. As far as the time line is concerned, Mr de Lamotte, I will regularly - every Monday - discuss the various cases with the staff of the firm. In this dialogue, we review everything that is important. I do not have a report for each notification made, but at these weekly meetings I always explain the important things to the cabinet. As far as the rotation of the controllers is concerned, I must distinguish with the officials, who are therefore sworn in and for whom there is no provision for rotation. That's one of the reasons why, I think, you've often seen the same number return because, normally, the names have been removed. For mission managers, the rotation principle is a change in the place of control every three years. You still had a question about self-control, but I didn't notice well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u115	In the context of self-checking on fraud detection, are specific checks carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u116	What we are seeing more and more in recent years is the integration of more measures to combat fraud into self-control systems. In addition, in the DG Control department, a provincial tour was undertaken to train them to recognize signs of fraud during conventional controls. This is one of the reasons why, as I explained, the number of cases has increased in recent years. This is because we have sensitized and trained our agents to be attentive to what could be a signal of fraud. The information goes to the UNE which takes care of this but this does not mean that each notified file is a real fraud file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u117	But in this case, Veviba's self-control did not signal what had happened in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u118	They're investigating.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u119	How do you react to self-control at that time? That's the question I was asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u120	The self-control system is designed to manage the system, ensure product quality and safety. Someone who does tax fraud or financial fraud does not, in their traditional system, notice things that are fraudulent. Several people said you shouldn't throw the baby away with the bath water. The self-control system is a well-designed system in most companies. But, of course, fraudsters must circumvent their own self-control system. I just talked to my colleague. We can send an adapted version of this note, but I can already confirm that all the mould results were consistent. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: As for small producers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u121	With the unit specializing in supporting small producers, we are trying to collect all the data and present them in a way that is understandable to them. We gave the example of labelling. This is an example where legislation, in itself, is complex. Our accompaniment unit is trying to translate this into terms that are understandable to a small producer. We try to accompany them for everything that is related to the problem of listeria. If you look on our website, for example, for small producers, instead of making them a self-checking guide, we made quick start cards where they have at a glance all the essential elements. The next step, but we're not there yet, will be to bring this together on a website specifically dedicated to small producers. Muriel Gerkens, Chair: I leave the last word to parliamentarians. Anyway, we'll meet again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u122	Madam Chair, I will make a very brief reply to Minister De Block in relation to her more political remarks. Minister, there is no need to add any more. The press is doing its job. The neighbouring countries are watching what is happening in Belgium. I know that you are very sensitive and, logically, like Belgium abroad. But it is not by being in the position of the three little monkeys – we close our eyes, we close our ears and we say nothing – that this will be arranged. The crises are here. You have to be able to handle them. Take back the minutes of the first committee. It's the minister who used the words, it's not me. Just like the mafia word.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u123	Mr Nollet, this was about fraud and not about public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u124	The word "public health fraud" is linked to the fact that before March 2018, the company Veviba already made mixtures between meats unfit for consumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u125	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u126	Why did they start on February 28? On February 28, it was discovered by chance during a search that they were mixing meat for human consumption and meat that was not intended for human consumption. You're telling me today that we have no proof of what happened before. I'm telling you, you need to look first. You don't know how to say there was no problem before. There are even great suspicions!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u127	And you also don't know if it happened before!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u128	I can tell you that on the basis of the fact that on 28 February you discover that there is a problem, there is a great chance – I invite you to have the same attitude as I did – that they were already doing it before. To have an attitude like yours is that the three little monkeys. It means closing your eyes, closing your ears and not saying anything. I assume that if there were seals after that and there was a search leading to the closure, this is due to a great assumption that before that, there were similar facts. Moreover, in the report and the annexes which we have been able to read, it is stated that we do not yet know what the situation is with regard to the period before. I would have liked you to have the same caution rather than mention this period before February or early March, it is to throw oil on the fire. On the contrary, it is to be lucid in relation to the health risk that existed and the health crisis that was potentially linked to it. When you read the documents, you clearly see what it is and the consequences that it can have. I guess that's why the company was temporarily shut down.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u129	I agree with Mr Nollet on this point. As I said this morning, Madam Minister, we can read in the dozens of infringement reports concerning the Verbist institutions for the period 2016-2018 – it is in the file, I do not invent anything – that "contaminated heads, organs and languages have already been sold and delivered without any information on all possible contamination". This is a public health issue, minister! This is not just a question of fraud! I would therefore like to draw your attention to this, with great caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-21-54-commissie-ic849x.u130	I think that's incredible! It acts as if the agency is under the control of Agriculture and is only linked to Health by a protocol, as if preserving food safety in favour of public health would not be the Agency's first task. That is why it has been established, it is in everything, that is the task of the Scientific Committee. Why do you think I'm here from 9:00 this morning? That is precisely because that is also my concern. You pretend that all this can happen without public health being involved, without worrying us. No, that does worry us, otherwise we would not request the results of the polls from the Scientific Institute. Fortunately, we should not only continue with the information contained in the judicial investigation, but also with other sources. Those other sources are just lying beside you, because they don't fit in with your story, because they don't fit in with your panicmongery. That may be your right as an opposition, but that is not correct information for the citizens. Muriel Gerkens, president: I will close the proceedings, even if I would like to give a different assessment than you on the subject. Nevertheless, I will take it that, as a Member of Parliament, I have taken the last word and that, therefore, we can finish today's sitting. We will try to organize the next round, anyway with Minister Peeters for this whole section Economy and Social Inspection. We want this to take place on Tuesday or Wednesday next week, at the latest.
