ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u1	Mr President, Minister, my first question concerns a message that it sent Vias to the world with regard to the introduction of zero tolerance for alcohol, mopeds, motorcycles and speed pedals. Not only does the Vias require zero tolerance in that area. The European Commission also advised our country in 2001. If the Vias comes up with this now, I wonder to what extent you have already been addressed. Minister, do you intend to do something about zero tolerance for motorized two-wheelers? Or is the current maximum alcohol level of 0.5 milligrams per milliliter maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in its 2001 recommendations, the European Commission advocates zero tolerance for truck drivers, motorized two-wheelers and inexperienced drivers. In our country, zero tolerance has been applied to truck drivers since 2015. In 2017, I tried to demonstrate the need for zero tolerance for inexperienced drivers through numerous statistics and reliable studies, in order to reduce the number of road casualties. At that time it became clear that a large number of MEPs opposed this. In such circumstances, I fear that it will become very complicated to introduce zero tolerance for motorized two-wheelers. With regard to motorized two-wheelers, I have taken note of the Vias study on the in-depth analysis of the characteristics and profiles of serious moped accidents in the built-up area. In this study, Vias states that in this type of accident, the human factor is by far the most important accident factor. Many accidents have to do with the fact that the driver does not see the moped. In 15.6 % of the cases investigated, the driver of the moped was under influence. The Vias indeed advocates a legal alcohol limit of 0.2 promille for moped riders, motorcyclists and speed pedal drivers, because of their vulnerability and their need for a good balance. Finally, I am in favour of introducing zero tolerance for inexperienced drivers. These may be inexperienced drivers of motorized two-wheelers, as well as inexperienced motorists or drivers of trucks or buses. If we succeed in making all novice drivers aware that driving and drinking must remain strictly separate, they will receive a life lesson for their further career as drivers on the public road. I am trying to convince the coalition partners of these measures, which can save many lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u3	Minister, my first question after the Easter holiday was actually quite spicy. From your answer, I conclude that we have understood each other well. We have taken note of what the Vias advocates. You have your point of view. Together with a number of other Members, I am indeed not convinced that zero tolerance is the solution. We believe that too severe punishment can cause the pendulum to tilt to the other side. As you know, I do not like the inexperienced drivers to be endorsed. The awareness that driving and drinking do not go hand in hand applies to every driver. I'm from an aging region. Well, when I see how older people drive and drink, I think that this message should be addressed to them rather than to young drivers who have received better training. However, you have reassured me. It is not the case that this will be done immediately. Maybe the spirits can still ripen a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u4	Mr President, Minister, you know this neighborhood very well, since you spoke with me at the time of the collapse of the Louvain road. It now appears that many residents complain in this area, which is located between the square Felix Delhaye and the "Jazz Station" (Louvain floor), the noise noise created by the train horns at the height of the open passage of the line from Brussels Nord to Brussels Schuman. Between 0720 and 1730, approximately one train on two horns passing by to warn potential workers in the tunnel of their passage. However, this area is densely populated (two crèches are also present) and the horns of the trains are very powerful. In addition, this area is part of a neighbourhood contract and the living space is currently being developed by the municipality. Contacted on this subject, SNCB's delegate administrator, Ms Dutordoir, replied: "All railway operators are forced to horn at the entrance of a tunnel between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. to warn potential workers working inside the tunnel that a train is approaching. This also applies to the Deschanel tunnel and the Berlaymont tunnel, between which you reside. We understand that this can cause some form of noise nuisance, but it is a necessary measure for safety reasons." Mr Minister, I fully understand SNCB's point of view and there is no wish on my part to question the safety of workers or users. However, I must plead for alternative solutions for the good of all, both the SNCB and the inhabitants. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions: are there any other similar situations in the territory? And what are the solutions you can recommend to satisfy both sides? In the end, we are talking about horns because of the work that is under way. Can we not report the work to the drivers in advance, to avoid these horns and noise nuisances that really disturb the quietness of our neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u5	Dear colleague, Infrabel informs me that, for a large number of tunnels, instructions require that a sound signal be transmitted as they approach and until they enter, during the period of the day from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. This procedure obviously meets safety requirements in order to protect any person who is at that time in the tunnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u6	I understand the security imperatives, as I said in my speech. I think you're also a man of terrain and proximity, you demonstrated it at the time of the collapse of the road at Saint-Josse. What I don't understand is that it's systematic. If there is work in the tunnels and workers are put at risk by the passage of the train, it is normal for the driver to report first. I do not think that this is justified because of the systematic hoaxing and the production of noise nuisances for the inhabitants. There should be some flexibility and intelligence, putting in place a pre-reporting measure. If there is work in such a tunnel, drivers should be advised to report before they pass. We could thus avoid problems of noise nuisances throughout the country and especially in places where there is a high concentration of inhabitants, which is the case in front of the Saint-Josse station. Minister, could you think with SNCB about setting up a procedure to report work in advance and, in other cases, to stop the horns. I think it's pointless to bother the people when there's no work and there's no one in the tunnels. Thank you in advance for your interest, for the residents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u7	Mr President, Minister, according to a press article published on March 15th on the RTBF website, the railway company indicated that "the number of attacks against SNCB personnel increased by 11% in 2017 compared to 2016, with a total of 1,165 cases". She added that "this year, SNCB intends to reduce the number of accidents at work by 10%, whose attacks represent one of the largest shares". However, in my parliamentary question of 3 October on the increase in the number of attacks against SNCB agents, you answered: "If transport ticket disputes remain the main cause of the attacks, their number has not increased, unlike the number of those related to the train departure procedure. As you know, during this procedure, the attendant closes all doors except his. Delayers arrive and want to force the passage." So, Minister, have you been able to draw any conclusions from these figures? If so, what steps do you intend to take to address the problems raised by these results?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that one of the main circumstances causing the attacks on train attendants is the failure of passengers to comply with the current departure procedure. This is why SNCB will introduce a new starting procedure in June, which will see the train attendant close all doors as soon as the starting signal is given. In the current procedure, a door remains open after the starting signal, until the train moves. The fact that the passenger is no longer allowed to board at that time creates a lot of frustrations that can sometimes lead to aggressive behaviour towards the train attendant. At the same time, security officers in Securail will strengthen preventive patrols on a number of sensitive routes and SNCB will continue to rely on staff training to identify and avoid potential conflict situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u9	Mr President, very briefly, I thank the minister for these elements of the response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u10	Mr President, Minister, there is a difference in regulation between the federal and, among other things, the Flemish levels. I have not checked whether this also applies to the other regions. It was pointed out to me that the difference in regulations for oldtimers caused the necessary nuisances. Vehicles that were first put into service on 1 January 1993 or later will only be able to be valued as an oldtimer after 30 years instead of 25 years. Since 1 July 2017, there is a different regulatory framework in Flanders. At the federal level, a registration as an old-timer with an O-plate can still be applied for from 25 years. Flanders has followed the European directive, but Belgium has not yet transposed it. This ambiguity leads to confusion among the old-time owners. I have the following questions. Is the DIV aware of this problem? Can the DIV adapt its internal processes to point out to applicants the changed regulations relating, for example, to tax provisions? Do you think that insurance companies should be reminded of this ambiguity, so that owners of such vehicles can be informed in advance? Can the age requirement of the vehicle for obtaining an O-plate not be aligned, for example, with the Flemish rules? I haven't checked the applicable rules on the Walloon side. There should be some uniformity in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the scope of Directive No. 2014/45 on the periodic roadworthiness tests of motor vehicles and trailers is limited solely to the technical inspection of vehicles, which is also a regional competence. This is completely unrelated to the valuation of vehicles. Moreover, this Directive has not yet been transposed by the Regions. The Directive means that the age of vehicles covered by an exception concerning the normal frequency of technical inspection is increased from 25 to 30 years. So that hasn't happened yet. The systems used in the assessment are different in the three regions. In Wallonia it has been for 30 years, without a transitional period. In Flanders it is 30 years with a transitional period and in Brussels it is still 25 years. It is therefore not evident to make this clear to the applicant for registration. Moreover, my services risk being held liable for the provision of information that does not fall within their competence. It is indeed appropriate to inform the insurance companies accordingly. Since the uncertainties are the result of a change in regional regulations, I do not think it is appropriate to entrust this task to my administration. An increase in the age of granting an O-plate can only be considered if there is clarity and uniformity between the different systems used by the regions, both in terms of technical inspection and assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. Consultation between the Regions is very appropriate here, with a feedback to the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u13	Madam President, Minister, the final of the Belgian Football Cup was held in Brussels on 17 March, in which the teams of the Standard of Liège and Genk took part. On this occasion, significant incidents took place during the transfer of the Belgian supporters to the capital. Many people have triggered smoke on trains taking them to Brussels, and alarm systems have also been activated. Some trains had to be stopped before they could get back on the road. The incidents continued at the Brussels-Central railway station. On arrival, some supporters continued to use smoke on the underground docks as well as in the railway station halls. This, of course, has caused a great deal of discomfort for all the passengers present, as the whole station was rapidly smoky. As a result of all this, several trains have been delayed or even cancelled. Minister, can you give us a full update on these incidents? How many trains have been affected by these delays and/or cancellations? Apart from these consequences, have any material damage occurred, and if so, what types of damage are they? What is the sum of the total injury to SNCB at the end of that day? Are any lawsuits on the agenda against supporters, supporters' clubs or the Standard club itself? Minister, I would like to stress that this type of behaviour, particularly in public and closed places, such as trains or railway stations, is not acceptable. The inconvenience caused to the commuters present and the damage suffered by SNCB as a result of these acts cannot remain unpunished.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u14	Dear colleague, Infrabel informs me that a total of 56 minutes have been delayed by four international trains, that thirty-three national passenger trains have been delayed by a total of 347 minutes and that two trains have been partially abolished. SNCB informs me that it does not yet have a complete picture of the harm it has suffered. It maintains the various options available to it, including prosecution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answer. So, somehow, my question is still premature. I hope that the complete elements can still be obtained once the study has been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u16	Madam President, Minister, on Tuesday, March 6, 2018, Elia tested a drone on a ten-kilometre flight around Saint-Trond. The power transmission system operator intends to use this type of equipment to control all its high voltage lines. The use of drones has several major advantages: the high-voltage line must not be put out of service; the inspection takes place more quickly and the employee remains on the ground safely. After an incident, such as a storm, Elia can quickly determine the extent of potential damage. Mr Minister, in view of these elements, does the use of drones in the monitoring of the rail network, like Elia for high-voltage lines, seem relevant to you? Would this not allow for a reduction in logistics costs? Do you also believe that the Belgian legal framework for long-distance drone flights must evolve?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u17	Dear colleague, Infrabel has recently studied the possibility of using drones for catenary inspection and has, to this end, carried out various tests. To date, only the use of flexible portico control drones in Brussels has been satisfactory. This procedure will now be used on the Brussels area. Regarding the inspection of the catenary, the nature of the defects requires that drones be flown as close to the catenary as possible. Since this constraint is incompatible with train traffic, the inspection of the catenary with drones requires either the decommissioning of tracks or the development of specific technological solutions to allow remote inspection. With the exception of the flexible porticoes in Brussels, Infrabel therefore favours the use of measuring trains which do not require the decommissioning of the tracks and which, in addition, allow the recording of other technical parameters of the catenary and the track, which is also economically more advantageous. As far as the Belgian legal framework for drones is concerned, there are already possibilities for long-distance flights outside the visual range in the form of a derogation from the current rules. However, this requires an in-depth risk analysis to be validated by DGTA. This is also done for high voltage lines. Trials have been done. The European EASA regulations on drones under development should allow for this type of flight. As a reminder, these regulations are expected to be published again this year. The Belgian legal framework should therefore be adapted on the basis of the new European rules when they are public.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u18	Minister, thank you for that answer. During the presentation by the leaders of Infrabel and SNCB, we mentioned these trains, which can replace a lot of staff and measure all the elements of the catenary and others. In addition, you are responding positively to the necessary change in the legal framework for drone flights. We will be paying attention to this development.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u19	Minister, in a report, I saw that since July last, India has been using cars equipped with solar panels on their roofs. Currently under test, this process could quickly be extended to many trains. In practice, the electricity produced will not be used to power the driving force, but the bulbs of the cabins as well as the fans and other electrical systems inside the train, as well as the indicator panels. The installation should allow 72 hours of autonomy of the installations on board. I know that SNCB is particularly attentive to the issue of renewable energy, including the installation of wind turbines but also many solar panels in several places. Minister, are you aware of this Indian initiative? If so, do you have any information on the results of these initial tests? Could such an initiative be considered at home? If so, what would be the constraints to be overcome?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u20	Dear colleague, last year, SNCB published a brochure entitled "Sustainable transport, sustainable work" in which it outlined its priorities in terms of sustainability. Each member of this commission must have received a copy of it. SNCB identifies some of its priority areas for action on energy conservation by, for example, implementing eco-driving and introducing new, less energy-efficient trains. In its buildings, it will save energy by switching to LED lighting and by continuing the renewal of its heating facilities. In the coming years, all buildings with large roofs will be covered with solar panels as much as possible. With regard to the project in India, SNCB informed me that this project was not a priority in its eyes for four reasons. Most of the roofs on trains are too small to place solar panels, as the roof is already covered with other devices of any kind. In Belgium, trains run mainly on electrified tracks, which makes the installation of solar panels more complex. Part of the energy produced would be lost immediately as the train would be somewhat heavier. Compared to the installation of solar panels on buildings or on land, this will be very costly on trains compared to the meagre profits achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u21	Mr Minister, I thank you for your twofold reply, on the one hand, that the situation in India cannot be replicated as such and, on the other hand, that a whole range of other procedures and methods can lead to energy savings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u22	Madam President, Minister, I rarely ask a question about a specific station or something that happens in my immediate vicinity. The new transport plan is not so positive for my city, Blankenberge. After all, the accessibility of our tourist resort has been reduced. This applies not so much to tourists, but to residents. I ask you this question because a city is only viable if there is a good balance between inhabitants and visitors. We are of course very satisfied if a tourist can reach our bathing city, but we also want those who live and work there to be able to take the train. The transport plan, which entered into force at the end of last year, contains hardly any early and late trains. For example, a first train doesn't leave until 7:45 a.m. on the weekend. The last train, with connection to Blankenberge from Antwerp, is already at 20:00. If someone from the coast wants to attend an evening performance in Antwerp, it is actually impossible to get home. In addition, the Antwerp-Blankenberge route lasts longer in recent years. I wrote down the hours. Before 2014 one hour and 48 minutes were on the road. In the '90s, this was 1 hour and 42 minutes. At the moment they are just less than two hours on the train between Blankenberge and Antwerp. One quickly takes the car if one wants to go to Antwerp. Two hours before a journey is unimaginable today. Equally problematic are the connections in the evening. The last train from the interior arrives at 22:00. From Ghent-Sint-Pieters one has to leave at 21:30. The last train to Blankenberge in Brussels-Central leaves at 20:45. However, as a Member of Parliament, we do have the possibility of getting home in a different way after 22:00. However, we do not live on the other side of Europe. One final point concerns rush hour trains. If one introduces them, one must of course also look at the regular trains. After all, there is only a 13-minute difference between the IC train and the rush hour train: the IC train leaves at 6:54 and the rush hour train leaves at 7:07. That is far too close to each other and has no use whatsoever. By the way, there is only one rush hour train in the morning and one evening, while Knokke gets much more rush hour trains, although there are no more passengers. Is there any way to change this, Minister? The people of my city are really suffering from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u23	Mrs Dumery, SNCB informs me that, in developing its new transport plan, it has taken into account the demands of its customers and the resources available to it in terms of equipment, staff and budget. In general, the amplitude of the train supply, the number of trains between the first and the last train, is determined on the basis of the occupation of the first and last train in the past and the consequent desirability of these trains. In this context, there is currently no provision for an extension of the amplitude at Blankenberge. The peak hour trains must be integrated into the overall train traffic, also taking into account the freight traffic from Bruges to Blankenberge, Knokke and Zeebrugge. All these trains run from Bruges, because some of them still run on common railway lines. The availability of the necessary railway and station infrastructure must therefore be taken into account. This makes it not always possible to schedule all trains on the ideal path. Now the P-train connects from Blankenberge in Bruges to the IC train that runs from Knokke to Ghent and Brussels in the morning. In this way we give travellers an additional travel opportunity between Blankenberge and Brussels. There are also other connection options. However, SNCB evaluates the number of passengers switching as a result of a possible revision of the P-trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u24	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I know I shouldn't be bothering you with this, but in general people will seek other means of transport when they reduce the supply of early and late trains. One takes the car to Bruges, for example. Of course, the number of passengers is falling during the years in which the offer is reduced and is not user-friendly. This is one example, but I can imagine that it is similar in other places. It does not make sense to reduce the supply at the early and late hours. People who work on relocation need this. I find it poignant to see what happens on the basis of counts. When the extra track to Zeebrugge is built, I can understand that traveling in the future can be smoother. However, evolution is not right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u25	Minister, according to the daily newspaper L-Echo, the CEO of Brussels Airport Company (LAC) advocates the concentration of flights on narrow areas or narrow corridors in order to reduce the number of residents flying over. At the same time, it suggests the introduction of a programme of acoustic insulation of houses, allowing to reduce the level of noise pollution borne by the inhabitants. In my view, a high concentration of flights cannot be justified above densely populated areas, such as the Brussels Canal. However, LAC's CEO statements once again illustrate the need to reduce noise nuisances by putting in place structural solutions. Minister, what is your position on the proposals of the CEO of LAC? More generally, are you in favour of changing air routes to avoid the most densely populated areas? If so, what are your proposals? Are you in favour of an extension of the night to reduce noise pollution between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.? The government agreement announces the creation of an independent noise control authority around Brussels-National Airport. When could this authority be created and what form would it be?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u26	Mrs Lalieux, I am not unaware of the runway of a concentration of flights. It is defended by some experts in the case. The aim of the impact study for which the public procurement was launched will be precisely to provide everyone with an objective basis for work and scientific solutions. Road change and the creation of an independent supervisory authority are measures that need to be considered as part of a comprehensive and sustainable solution. In this context, the population density criterion is one of those adopted by the government agreement in order to develop this sustainable solution. The reflection of an extension of the night must also take place within the overall framework. However, we must be careful that an extension of the night of two hours, as you mentioned, complies with the European regulation on operating restrictions and does not endanger the entire economic centre of the airport. A fund was established in 2000 to implement an insulation program. It was never powered and was transferred in 2002 to LAC. The relaunch of an isolation fund is also reflected in the comprehensive proposal I had made to the government. Without wishing to clear my customs, I would like to remind you once again that everyone has a piece of the puzzle that will form the solution, the planning and the planning of the territory falling within the competence of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I have understood you correctly in your answers to the previous questions, the time to award the contract, to carry out an impact study, nothing will be done during this Parliament. In the meantime, the health and safety of citizens are again at stake. In my opinion, you could have done it in batches. There's an incidence study. But an independent institute has nothing to do with such a study. If I understand correctly, you're not going to proceed that way either. As far as road change is concerned, I would remind you that it took Ms. Galant three weeks to load the canal without any impact studies. I agree with you as far as spatial planning is concerned, but since there has never been a federal decision, Flanders – indeed, it is in this region that we build the most at the airport level – has never taken the trouble, as Wallonia around Charleroi or around Liège did, to make proposals on spatial planning and isolation at the level of its own land. But until an impetus is given at the federal level, it will not, it will continue to build and we will remain in a dead end.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u28	Minister, I intended to ask my question about the Etterbeek station, which is in the territory of Ixelles, together with my colleague – also ixellois – Gautier Calomne. He's asking you to excuse his absence. As we have already postponed these attached questions, I am going to ask mine today. In any case, I think I relay a concern of the entire ixellois communal council. I come to a fact that is rare enough to be stressed. On Thursday, 22 February, the communal council of Ixelles unanimously voted on the motion for a motion by Geoffrey Roucourt (Écolo-Groen), which aims to rename the station of Etterbeek to the station of "Ixelles-Universités/Elsene Universiteiten". The motion had been co-signed by all the group leaders of the communal council (MR, PS, Défi, cdH). For our group, environmentalists, this is not just a symbolic proposal. Indeed, the station could have been called "Brussels-Universités" or "Brussels-Campus", as suggested by Brussels-Mobility in its prospective study "Mobil2040". However, it would be forgotten that the ULB and the VUB are not the only Brussels universities and that the Plaine and Solbosch campuses are not the only campuses either. Moreover, it does not seem excessive to us to ask that one of the four SNCB judgments in the territory of Ixelles bear the name of the municipality. The motion also reaffirms the common support for a sustainable mobility policy, notably through the rail offer. It also calls for a permanent dialogue between the various actors concerned, namely SNCB, the federal government, the regional government, municipalities and universities. It is, in fact, essential to develop the rail supply. The commune must insist on its development, particularly for this station. Finally, it is important for the commune to continue the dialogue with the ULB and the VUB and the future actors of "Usquare". The collaboration between universities and the commune has yet to be deepened and benefit both the universities and the people of Ixello. In addition, both institutions attract students from across the country and even beyond our borders. The ixellois college will submit the proposal to the various stakeholders in this dossier, namely the ULB, the VUB, the SNCB, the mayor of Etterbeek, the Brussels Minister-President Rudi Vervoort and his Minister of Mobility Pascal Smet, as well as you, who are responsible for the SNCB in your capacity as Federal Minister for Mobility. My question is quite simple. I refer here to a question on behalf of the whole of the communal council of Ixelles and a question that you will also receive from the college of the commune of Ixelles. Will you support this proposal to rename the station of Etterbeek at the station of Ixelles-Universities/Elsene-Universiteiten?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u29	Dear colleague, the SNCB informs me that it has informed the municipality of Ixelles that it was not in favour of changing the name of the station of Etterbeek in particular for the following reasons: the name Etterbeek is well anchored with the customers of the SNCB as well as the inhabitants of Brussels, a new name could therefore create confusion; the students are not the only ones to take the train in Etterbeek, the station is also used by commuters working in the many companies located in the area. In addition, SNCB is trying to move towards a degree of uniformity in the name of its stations. In June 2017, it replaced the name Louvain-la-Neuve Université with Louvain-la-Neuve, the station not only serving the university. Last summer, the ULB and the VUB had submitted an application for a name change from the Etterbeek station to the ULB-VUB Campus. SNCB had at the time rejected their request for the same reasons, as it wished to remain consistent in its decisions on station names, while trying to ensure continuity for the customer. Finally, the SNCB tells me that any change in station name is subject to an analysis which is based on objective criteria, all in the context of a specific procedure. The analysis takes into account a number of objective criteria, including the current name of the station and its purpose, the impact on customer experience, the possible risks of confusion, commercial neutrality and the impact on other Brussels transport operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which, you will not be surprised, disappoints me. I can hear the arguments that you're making. However, the objective was precisely not to give the impression that this station was used only by students but by all citizens, hence the proposal to go further than Brussels-Campus with Ixelles-Universities to show, both to the inhabitants of this part of the commune and to the students, that we had been attentive to this element. We can tell at length about the historical, cultural, and relative character of the implantation of the name of Etterbeek at that place, but having a station called Etterbeek while it is in the town of Ixelles, in terms of consistency and anchoring for customers and commuters, is nevertheless rather surprising, especially since the mayor of Etterbeek was in favour of the name of Ixelles appearing alongside that of Etterbeek in the denomination. All this may seem somewhat futile, but it is very important in relation to the image it gives. The municipality of Ixelles has de facto several stations and none bears its name. It is in relation to sustainable mobility that we wish to encourage and improve in Ixelles. That SNCB does not hear these arguments is a disappointment! I do not know to what extent we can return to it or have a broader discussion with it. I will convey this opinion, but it is disappointment that prevails at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u31	Madam President, Minister, in April 2017, the public company Proximus joined the CO2 neutral business club for 2016, of which Spadel, Lotus Bakeries and Le Pain communautaire are already part. In terms of respect for the environment, these positive behaviours therefore exist and are applied within certain companies, in accordance with the Paris and Marrakesh Agreements (COP21 and COP22). One example is that on 16 November 2017, as part of COP22, more than 100 leaders and investors met with members of governments, civil society and the United Nations, as a sign of their commitment and support for the Paris climate agreement. It is in this context that the companies Vinçotte and CO2logic created the label "zero emission". This assessment is based on the BSI's international CO2 neutrality standard. The label is obtained by calculating the CO2 emissions of a company or product, with residual CO2 emissions to be offset by supporting climate-certified projects. The service is available not only to industrial enterprises, SMEs, but also to the public authorities. For example, Proximus became carbon neutral for its operations in 2016. In the same year, Proximus managed to reduce its emissions by 4% compared to 2015. It is therefore estimated that over the past six years its carbon emissions have decreased by 32% – almost a third, which is quite considerable. In short, you will understand, Proximus is a good student in the ranks of our public companies. On the other hand, it is up to us that SNCB is not yet CO2 neutral, whereas the SNCB Group has a key role to play in this area, and certainly as a reference rail operator. Minister, what is the carbon balance of SNCB today? What mass of CO2 should the company compensate to date? In addition, does a specific action plan exist within SNCB to improve its carbon footprint? Does she intend to obtain the label "zero show" for the entire Group?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of energy consumption and CO2 emissions per passenger-kilometre, the train has a much better score than all other modes of transport. The train can therefore make a significant contribution to national and international energy efficiency and greenhouse gas reduction objectives. Taking into account direct and indirect CO2 emissions from traction and indirect emissions from electricity generation for the traction of electric trains, travelling by train causes only 18 grams of CO2 per passenger-kilometre, eight times less than the road transport average of 150 grams of CO2 per passenger-kilometre. More than 95% of SNCB's locomotives and auto-motors are electrically driven, which does not result in direct CO2 emissions. I would point out that, compared to 2005, CO2 emissions per passenger-kilometre have decreased by 26%. Train energy consumption calculated as passenger-kilometres also decreased by 8.5% compared to 2005. The carbon balance related to energy consumption for all SNCB activities, trains, service cars, office buildings, stations, workshops and all other activities is 244,000 tonnes of CO2 for 2017, including direct and indirect emissions. SNCB further states that the reduction of its CO2 emissions is linked to the increasing use of renewable energy sources by electricity producers. In this regard, the Commission intends to promote the implementation of wind farms by examining what land might be suitable. In this regard, the current used by rail traffic is becoming greener thanks to the Greensky wind farm, a collaboration between ENGIE, the infrastructure manager Infrabel and a few other partners. Currently, these wind turbines are located along the E40 and the Brussels-Liège high-speed line. This park is unique in the sense that part of the current is injected directly into the rail network thanks to the proximity of a power station to the Infrabel network. These wind turbines have a total capacity of 32,000 megawatts, an annual production of 94,000 megawatts or equivalent to the consumption of 26,000 households. Approximately 30% of this production is destined directly for SNCB trains, thus avoiding nearly 5,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for those figures that I will look at carefully. You must not convince the Ecolo-Groen group that the train is the best means of transport for the environment because of its CO2 emissions per person. We defend it at all levels of power. It is an axis that is at the heart of all the policies we want to pursue. I hear that efforts have been made in the past and that renewable energy sources have developed. These are obviously good things, but my question was also about the SNCB's record. It is still positive in CO2 emissions today. What actions should be taken to reduce these emissions? Do you intend to offset these emissions? You didn't really answer. I understand that this is a major effort, but is the consideration of possible emissions compensation by financing climate-related projects, for example in the countries of the South, analysed by SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u34	A plan is being developed and includes several elements. The first element is SNCB's willingness to place photovoltaic solar panels on large roofs. The second element concerns the use of new technologies in trains. The aim is to define the starting, slowing and braking profiles for each train, for each line, at each station, knowing that the new equipment is equipped with energy-recovery electromagnetic brakes. The third element is a policy of systematic replacement of all lighting with led lighting. When we combine the whole, the ambition is to go towards a significant decline. The simple starting, braking and stopping control technology at stations – based on experiments carried out, including in Belgium – makes it possible to reduce the energy consumption of locomotives and existing rolling stock by 30%. Finally, I would like to pay attention to the fact that SNCB is the largest consumer and public customer – and one of ten largest customers – of electricity suppliers in Belgium. This represents an annual acquisition of approximately €90 million. Reflection is underway, but the plan is not yet fully linked. So I can't tell you any more right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u35	Minister, I thank you for the additional clarifications that are interesting. We will have the opportunity to come back when the plan is more detailed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u36	Questions No 24690 by Mrs Winckel, Nos 24723 and 24726 by Mr Raskin are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u37	Minister, a common complaint from rail passengers who leave small stations and unmanned stops is the lack of information. According to SNCB, the information system in stations is determined by the number of customers taking the train at the relevant location. SNCB is putting more resources in places where many customers take the train. "For small stations, such as the Schulen station, this means that current information is only provided through an audio installation. The announcements are presented in a limited form," said SNCB. In this way, the transport company takes account of the residents. For example, delays are announced, but not the cause of these delays. A screen does not cause noise pollution for residents and allows more detailed information to train passengers. Moreover, the audio system often fails, delays or cancelled trains are sometimes not announced and trains are sometimes misannounced. In the event of a major delay, passengers do not receive information about the next train, which means they do not know whether or not it makes sense to wait. In the answer to another question about lack of information in the stations, it was announced that from the beginning of 2018 EMMA, the automatic system that manages the screens and audio announcements, wants to feed data coming from one unique source within SNCB. In this way, the different channels of apps, websites, screens and audio announcements will always display the same information. I have the following questions. Firstly, how does SNCB determine which information system is used in the stations and at stops? Secondly, why is there an audio installation in certain small drives instead of a screen? Thirdly, how does SNCB evaluate this audio system, which apparently has a lot of shortcomings? Fourthly, has the reform of the information flow to EMMA been fully implemented? If so, does it appear on the ground that this represents an improvement for travellers? If not, why was this postponed? By when do we want to implement it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u38	SNCB indeed confirms its intention to unpack every quarter with small but significant improvements in the provision of information to the customer. SNCB claims to be able to do so as well. During the first quarter, the design of the yellow posters was adapted to improve legibility and user-friendliness. The content of the information screens in the Desiro trains, which constitute a third of the entire SNCB fleet, was enriched. There was a clearer layout, real-time information throughout the journey on connections and possible failures and an overview of the different services and facilities in each station. Furthermore, it became possible in all stations to feed the announcements on the screens and the audio system via the automatic announcement system, which clearly improves the quality of the information. According to SNCB, however, this system will only be connected to a unique data source in the first half of 2019. In this respect, there was a deviation from planning due to organisational difficulties in IT. It is, moreover, Infrabel and not SNCB, which, on the basis of the number of passengers, chooses which stations are equipped with screens. Infrabel owns the hardware. Improved posters with information on planned work at the stations will appear before the summer. The information in the event of malfunctions is also streamlined between the different channels. It becomes possible to track the position of each train on a digital network map in real time. Part of the new website went live on 3 April and offers a sales tool that better guides the customer when purchasing the right ticket. A further update of the site is scheduled for the end of June, with fully updated and responsive content pages. Also in the third trimester, the information on planned work on the screens in the stations and on the screens in the Desiro trains is optimized. It will also be possible for the customer to inform themselves about the composition of the trains via the various channels. Before the end of the year, the yard information will be improved on the website and information on non-accessible carriages will be available in case of platform shortening, if, for example, a platform is too short for an incoming train or if there are yards on the platform. The standardisation of real-time information on delays on all channels, on the web application, in trains and stations should be in order by the first half of 2019. Collaboration with Test-Achats and other SNCB stakeholders, such as AnySurfer, was effective during the analysis and design and design phases of the new sites. The technical and IT implementation phase is under way. SNCB informs me that she does provide information on delays for which she herself is responsible. For example, if the reason for the delay is due to a faulty train, this is already communicated. La spécification de l'origine du retard is already being communicated via the screens in the station and via the site and the application. Finally, MobiPulse is an initiative of Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u39	Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Minister. I think that SNCB's plans are good in themselves. I think that SNCB is indeed planning to make a lot of improvements in communication. I also hope that she will succeed. They are ambitious plans and hopefully they will be implemented on the ground as soon as possible. After all, there is often a lot of dissatisfaction among travellers about the lack of information. Investing in information and new communication technologies is certainly a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u40	Ms. Lahaye-Battheu turns her questions into written questions (Nos. 24842 and 24859).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u41	Minister, last March, SNCB decided to strengthen the safety of some of its stations. In particular, it launched a public procurement with the aim of installing protective poles, as confirmed by the company's spokesman, Thierry Ney. The protection model chosen is what is called a bollard. This is equivalent to large chubs, as there are to separate the pedestrian axes from the roads used by motorists. The market also explains that they can be fixed bollards, removable, or retractable, to be installed. According to SNCB's spokesperson, the goal is to allow easy and secure passage to the teams who have to go to the specific locations where they are supposed to go. The negotiated procedure with prior competition provides for the equipping of 22 stations in the country with this new equipment. These will include the Brussels-Midi, Brussels-Central, Brussels-North, Brussels-Chapelle and Brussels-Congress stations. This call for applications should enable SNCB to find the right contractor to carry out the work, particularly from the point of view of the price of these bollards. The duration of the contract is six months non-renewable. Minister, could you give me some information on the status of the project and its timetable? When did the last contacts with the relevant actors date on the subject? What stations are affected by this security in Brussels, Flanders and Wallonia? What will be the cost of planned spending?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u42	Dear colleague, the SNCB informs me that it has validated a two-stage implementation of the measures to secure access to the twenty largest railway stations. As a first step, a quick and temporary solution: the installation of concrete blocks of type New Jersey. In a second phase, a medium-term and definitive solution: the setting up of bollards. The installation of New Jersey-type concrete blocks was carried out on SNCB's budget from existing stock or framework lease contracts. The stations selected for the project are the Brussels stations of the Nord-Midi junction, for their location in the centre of the capital, i.e. Brussels-Midi, Brussels-Chapelle, Brussels-Central, Brussels-Congresses, Brussels-North, as well as the main stations of the network in terms of attendance: Ostend, Bruges, Ghent-Saint-Pierre, Alost, Denderleeuw, Antwerpen-Centraal, Kortrijk, Antwerpen-Berchem, Charleroi, Saint-Nicolas, Ottignies, Mechelen, Namur, Leuven, Liège-Guillemins, Hasselt and Mons. SNCB adds that, depending on the particularities of each station concerned, the location area – the town or site of SNCB – and any protective measures already in place or planned by the municipal authorities, contacts have been made with the partners concerned (Cities, police and fire services, etc.). in order to optimize block locations in terms of compliance with safety objectives, traffic flow for pedestrians and persons with reduced mobility and accessibility by emergency and police services. In order to become aware of the measures taken by its partners, SNCB also exchanged information with STIB. SNCB assures that the study for the installation of bollards is under way and is expected to be finalized next June. After consulting the contract, execution will begin in October for an estimated period of six months. The overall budget of this project is estimated at EUR 1 600 000. In view of the anti-terrorism aspect of this project, on my proposal, the federal government has set aside a budget of almost EUR 1 million for 2018. The balance is expected to be released in 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u43	Mr President, therefore, in total this represents a budget of EUR 2.6 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u44	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u45	I have nothing else to add, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u46	Mr. Chair, Minister, according to an article in The Last Hour in April, the number of external automatic defibrillators (DAE devices) has been growing exponentially in recent years. In fact, these kinds of devices are now found in more and more public places, or in any case very much frequented, such as railway stations. And because of that, they're used to resuscitate people who suffer from heart failure. I quote a number: a patient revived by an EAD has an additional 60% chance of surviving the incident. Installing this type of device therefore means saving more lives. The availability of an AED device at stations can therefore be very useful. In Belgium, all major stations have at least one defibrillator. Following a parliamentary question, you indicated that SNCB had a concrete plan to expand the EAD network for 2018. My questions are very concrete, Minister: can you give an overview of the current situation? In how many stations is the implementation of defibrillators planned in this plan and which are concerned? We learn that in France, in addition to the stations, the TGVs and the main lines also hold at least one defibrillator. Why would SNCB trains not have defibrillators?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u47	Mr President, I should like to apologise if I have confused things a little. I come straight to my question on the subject already raised by Mr Kir. Minister, on the train from Ostend to Eupen on Sunday afternoon 8 April 2018, unfortunately, a man died after a cardiac arrest. He had pulled the emergency brake, but the three train escorts didn't know what to do. None of them had any knowledge of first aid, let alone CPR. There was no defibrillator on board either. That is why I have a number of specific questions. Firstly, is the training or further training of train staff provided for a quick first aid course? If not, will you then consider using your influence with SNCB to provide for this in the near future, as is common in aviation? Secondly, there are reportedly no defibrillators in the train sets. Are there any plans to provide for that? If not, will it be urged to do so? Thirdly, are there defibrillators present at the train stations? If so, which one? Fourthly, do you know the number of passengers who died during the last year on a train journey?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that train attendants do not receive specific training on first aid. They have an emergency box which they can make available to passengers if they so wish. If someone on board the train gets sick or hurts, the procedure determines that the train escorts notify SOC, the Security Operations Center. This will then come into contact with the emergency services for an intervention at the next station. In this case, the attendant also issues an announcement via the sound system using the possible presence of medical personnel on board the train (physician, nurses, etc.). to assist the injured or sick person. As regards the number of passengers who died during their train journey, SNCB provides the following information: in 2016 there was no death at all; in 2017 two and early 2018 one passenger died. As regards the installation of defibrillators, forty-five stations are equipped with these devices. The stations of Namur, Landen and Tienen are equipped by the city with an AED. For the time being, there are no plans to increase the number of AED devices in the stations. With regard to the equipment of SNCB trains, it is not favourable because trains are often put into service in variable composition. In order to provide an AED in each of these trains, SNCB should purchase 1,500 to 2,000 AEDs. Their cost of acquisition, maintenance and training is very high, while the availability of DEA equipment at stations is much more efficient. Finally, I would remind you that on the TGV network and on the main lines in France, the distance between two stations is much greater than between two Belgian stations, which certainly explains the presence of a defibrillator per convoy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it would be more useful to try to drum up Red Cross volunteers or to ask train staff to volunteer. For the rest, I follow up on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u50	Minister, when a car insurance contract is entered into or renewed, there is an obligation for the policyholder to bring to the attention of the insurer all the objective elements, including those relating to his state of health, which may influence the assessment of the risk. In general, the insurer is satisfied with the insured's statement or a simple medical certificate signed by the attending physician. However, the insurer may require an insured person with a disturbing health profile to undergo a medical check-up. This is also the case where the latter has caused an excessive number of accidents. Such controls may be carried out by a private company, Driving-how-know, or by the Centre for Driving and Vehicle Adaptation (CARA). According to the Ministerial Decree of 27 March 1998, the latter is the only body approved for the assessment of the ability to conduct persons with disabilities. However, insurance organisations often require an examination directly from CARA, even when the insurance applicant is not, a priori, in a situation of disability. However, it has come to my mind that the deadlines for obtaining an appointment can be several months, thus depriving the insured person of what is sometimes his or her sole means of transport, or even his or her livelihood, for a fairly long period of time. Minister, the IBSR (now Vias Institute) suffered a 52% decrease in its federal allocation between 2014 and 2015. Do you not think that the deadlines mentioned above are the result of a lack of resources? If this is not the case, what are these particularly long delays due to? What solutions can be found for users and especially for those who have been the subject of a medical problem, who are subject to checks by decision of insurance or their disability situation, so that all these persons are served within a reasonable time? The Institute carries out a public service mission. Is there therefore no need to set a legal maximum period within which the CARA must grant an appointment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u51	Dear colleague, it is true that federal staffing has been reduced in previous years. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the federal allocation no longer covers only the missions carried out by Vias on behalf of the Federal State within the framework of its powers. Since the sixth reform of the State, the Regions have been responsible for driving skills and therefore for the subjects covered by CARA. Consequently, each Region has independently concluded a contract with the Vias Institute for it to continue to carry out the public service mission on their behalf with the means made available to Vias by the Regions. The decrease in federal staffing is therefore not directly related to CARA services. From a contractual point of view, the improvement of CARA services is no longer the responsibility of the federal government but of the Regions themselves. It is my responsibility, however, that, under the impetus of the Vias Management Committee, an important work is under way to reorganise the activities in order to improve the service to the various partners, including the public authorities. The CARA department is one of the departments that are becoming increasingly professional in order to provide faster processing times than in the past. An improvement is planned for July of this year, but I invite you to look to the Regions for more information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u52	Minister, a federal parliamentarian is not yet calling at the level of the Regions. You're the Minister of Mobility. Recognize that, in interdepartmental mobility conferences, important issues are addressed, and that these conferences can also address these issues. It is true that the sixth state reform has an impact on federal endowments. I also hear that funding sources, including those from the National Lottery for example, have been reduced. They were among the sources of funding for these organizations. Let us therefore recognize a collective responsibility: that of ensuring sufficient means and, above all, that of ensuring the fulfilment of the tasks, which are particularly important for patients and persons with disabilities. I have heard some of your answers, but you will allow me, Minister, to urge you. This topic could be of great importance at an interdepartmental conference. Let each examine the various sources of funding, including the National Lottery, and consider what can be done to ensure that the missions are carried out in the most appropriate manner possible for patients and persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u53	Question No 24859 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u54	Minister, the train link between Brussels and Amsterdam has recently been modified. Part of the journey is now over a high-speed line, reducing travel time by half an hour. Ticket prices have also changed and become variable at the same time. SNCB said: "If you book at least seven days in advance and travel in the week, you can be cheaper off than you are now, but if you book last minute and/or on weekends, you usually pay more." Apparently, the price increase for those who do not book at least seven days in advance could in some cases amount to EUR 40 for a ticket. As a result, the train inevitably weakens its competitive position with regard to the car, the plane and the bus. It is also difficult to reconcile with the modal shift, for which you argue. Moreover, a few days ago, Minister, the bus connections between Antwerp and Amsterdam peaked. Many more people are now taking the bus between Amsterdam and Antwerp. That's not supposed to happen, is it? SNCB claimed that the price increase is necessary because the connection has become too popular. I've never heard anything like it. SNCB therefore says that its connection is becoming too popular, that there are too many travellers and that it therefore increases the price. If I were the CEO of SNCB, I would be very satisfied with a popular line. I might be thinking of capacity expansion or more connections. However, SNCB says that the connection has become too popular and raises prices. I have never heard such an argument. Hence the following questions. Firstly, what exactly do the new tariff formulas for a train ticket between Brussels, Mechelen and Antwerp and Rotterdam and Amsterdam look like? Secondly, what arguments does SNCB put forward to implement the tariff increase? Thirdly, on the basis of what criteria were the new tariff and the new formula fixed? Fourthly, how does SNCB explain the large difference in ticket prices between domestic and foreign traffic, apart from high-speed trains? Fifthly, how do you reconcile the increase with the modal shift that you are proposing, a principle that we all presumably support?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u55	Mr Minister, I too think it is a strange logic for SNCB to make such a decision for such a successful connection. The line is indeed a success. From now on, a high-speed line will be used, thus substantially reducing travel time. The number of seats also increases from 500 to 558, from May this year, apparently thanks to a seventh carriage. However, these changes are accompanied by a tariff increase. SNCB motivates this increase due to the popularity of the train. That is a somewhat bizarre motivation, certainly from a mobility point of view. Hence the following questions. First of all, how does SNCB guarantee that the train will remain competitive and attractive in relation to other modes of transport, such as the car and FlixBus, which offers movements at usury rates? Secondly, what is the current capacity utilisation of the Benelux train before the tariff increase? Thirdly, why does SNCB charge 1 euro extra distribution costs to the NS? Finally, how does the distribution of ticket receipts take place? Does each receive a proportional share or receives the revenue that is converted from its own sales channels?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u56	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the problem has already been outlined, so I do not need to repeat it. However, I would like to add a number of concrete amounts. Especially for the weekends the rates have risen quite spectacularly. Before the cover, so until last Sunday via Roosendaal, the price was 55 euros per traveller for a journey between Brussels and Amsterdam. Since 9 April 2018, so since the last weekend, it costs 96 euros, unless the traveler makes reservations more than a week in advance. An amount of 96 euros is heavy, especially compared to similar distances within Belgium or within the Netherlands. Within Belgium, a ride on the Ostend route costs EUR 23.20 at the weekend. It could be argued that rates in the Netherlands are generally somewhat more expensive and therefore the comparison should also be made for the Netherlands. A ride over the distance between Groningen and Breda costs 44.50 euros, so still less than half the price for the journey between Amsterdam and Brussels. This finding is regrettable and calls for attention. This is because it stresses once again that the borders which completely disappear for car traffic and bus traffic remain very strong for rail, which is a pity. For the train, too, we should strive to ensure that these limits can no longer be established. This may be partly due to the fact that high-speed lines will now be driven and that additional infrastructure charges will have to be paid. These, however, are considerations that need to be made and that need to be carefully considered whether the connection in question remains sufficiently attractive. Today we already notice effects on line 12, where there is still a cross-border connection between Roosendaal and Antwerp. One L train runs 13 stops and is therefore not attractive at all. Today, however, that train is overcrowded, perhaps because it can still be driven at a reasonable price between the Netherlands and Antwerp. That train requires extra transfer and has a long journey time. Nevertheless, the train is overcrowded. That is a clear signal that the price plays an important role. That's why I have a few questions. Can you explain the exact price increases? Why did this increase happen? How is it explained that the price for a longer domestic journey, both in Belgium and in the Netherlands, is lower than for a cross-border journey? Which factors will lead to higher costs? Is there a difference in the rate based on the country in which you leave? If you travel from Antwerp to Breda, you pay 1 euro more than for the same route in the opposite direction. I think that's weird. Buying a ticket to Breda is not possible at the vending machine, although this is the first station across the border. That should be perfectly possible. For this, it seems that we need to go to a point of contact for international travel. That raises the threshold to take that train even more. Should we not even look at the infrastructure charges on the high-speed line, both in Belgium and in the Netherlands, to get the price down?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u57	The IC Netherlands brings the customer 30 minutes faster in Amsterdam. SNCB informs me that, in the context of, among other things, improving quality, it has indeed revised its pricing policy. The previous tariff formulas of the Benelux train were not transparent, and complex for the traveller. There were dozens of types of tariffs and possible discounts. The new tariff formulas have thus been removed. In general, the new tariff structure strongly focuses on simplification and is inspired by the standard tariff structures in the aviation sector and for other train operators with whom most customers are highly trusted. It becomes more transparent for the traveller to choose from the rates. According to SNCB, the tariff structure for an international train cannot be compared with that of a domestic train. Each network receives a proportional share of the ticket reception according to the distance travelled on each network. It is true that a single ticket for the IC Benelux will be 1 euro cheaper with the NS than with SNCB. SNCB, as you know, should not cover any losses on its international activities with state subsidies. Therefore, a surcharge of 1 euro is included in the banknote to help cover certain distribution costs. SNCB does not ask for a supplement for orders with debit or credit cards. If we compare the IC Netherlands with Thalys' offer, we will determine a number of things. First of all, Thalys is targeting a completely different target audience. Secondly, bookings that take place less than a month in advance for IC Netherlands will be cheaper than the Thalys rates. Thirdly, IC Netherlands offers passengers much more flexibility because they do not have to reserve for a particular train but are free to choose from 16 trains per day. Fourthly, IC Netherlands offers more stations in Belgium and the Netherlands, which allows travellers to get directly to their destination without switching. Both Thalys and IC Netherlands will use promotions to communicate with low entry rates on a regular basis. The new tariff structure has been tested with passenger and consumer panels, both in Belgium and the Netherlands. The principle was positively evaluated. SNCB lets me know that it can give other price examples that show that the new rates can save 20, 30% to 40% compared to the previous standard rates. In any event, SNCB denies that there would be a general tariff increase. Ticket machines, not only in the Noorderkempen station, can currently not be purchased to Breda. This applies to all international destinations, all international classic rates and reservation tickets. SNCB also wants to offer international tickets via ticket machines from the end of 2018. The use of the high-speed line 4 instead of the regular line 12 is accompanied by an increase in the fee, which can mainly be explained by the application of a higher value based on the technical equipment of the line used and an increase on the basis of a parameter related to the deviation between the standard speed of the line and the speed of the train. The standard speed of line 4 is 280 km/h versus 60 km/h for line 12. The traffic hours of the train also have an impact on the fare.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u58	Mr Minister, even after that whole explanation, I still think it is a completely incomprehensible decision. I don't think anyone understands. Not only the opposition has questions about this, but also the majority. No one understands. I can still understand the fact that subsidies should not be granted for international movements, but that a price increase is being carried out when this is so popular is not understandable. The consequences are similar. The train is going to compete on the road in favour of other modes of transport which are less environmentally friendly, such as the car or bus. That is completely incomprehensible. If one uses the argument that the tariffs were complex, I understand that. But then make them less complex and more transparent. Making prices more transparent does not mean significantly increasing them. It is possible to set prices transparently without going through such substantial increases. These arguments do not make any sense. In short, I find the decision of SNCB world-frequent and incomprehensible. I hope that, as far as possible, the government, and you as Minister, will have a heartfelt conversation with SNCB on this matter. After all, this is a totally wrong signal given, especially in times when we need to take steps forward to deal with mobility problems, and we need to make every effort to motivate people to take the train and public transport. This decision is completely at odds with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. I agree with Mr Van Hecke. The only logical thing in your answer, Minister, was the need to simplify tariffs. We have already argued for this in the presentation of this government's strategic plan. The rest of the answer is clear to me and I hope it comes from SNCB and not from the government. There is absolutely no thought of the traveller and there are still a number of illogical things. For example, SNCB does not ask for a supplement for orders for credit card tickets. I think other companies would rather give a discount on credit card orders instead of asking for a supplement. I also find your answer very strange, and I hope that this is an answer from the company and not from this government, which hopefully thinks more in function of the traveller.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u60	Thank you to the Minister for trying to explain the reasons why we are faced with these tariffs. I can imagine the cost of using the infrastructure. You yourself referred to it: the infrastructure fee is getting heavier, so it has to be paid back. There are two ways you can do that. Or one tries to lure as many passengers as possible to that train connection so that it becomes a profitable, well-used and successful connection. Whether we are going to push prices up to ensure that we do not have to put in too many wagons and yet generate enough revenue. I think it should be the job to go for the first option. I also understand that the Dutch Railways (NS) had to pay an expensive concession to operate that high-speed line. They are therefore also looking for income to cover them somewhat. I see what's going on, but we still have to think according to the traveller. What I regret, in substance, is that the border between two Benelux countries, Belgium and the Netherlands, is only more important in terms of rail traffic than was the case. I think that's a missed opportunity. Car traffic hardly notices that the border between Belgium and the Netherlands is being crossed. This should also apply to rail traffic, but in this respect it goes in the opposite direction. Today I find that a train ticket between the station Brecht in the Noorderkempen and the city of Breda costs 20 euros. The stations are only 18 kilometers apart and are, as it were, within cycling distance, especially on a beautiful day like today. With the Blue Bike, you might be able to get there that way. However, we are paying EUR 20 by train today, and that is all we have to say. By this they say to a train traveller from the municipality of Brecht that he should not take the train if he wants to go to Breda. Two people or more find much more interesting means of transport. This is a missed opportunity. I hope there will be some adjustments after all. I think there is still a lot of evaluation and adjustment possible. We're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u61	Questions Nos 24958 and 24961 Van den Bergh are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u62	Mr President, I would also like to thank colleagues for asking me my questions. I was supposed to be on the Comparability Committee by now. However, I shall be brief. My question is about group reservations during rush hour. There is a very reduced rate for group trips, intended for groups of up to 15 people. Youth movements, associations, schools and so on make grateful use of this. Specifically for traveling to the Brussels zone it is not possible to travel in group from 7h 00 to 9h 00 and from 16h 00 to 18h 30. That limitation obviously has its reasons, namely full rush hour. On the other hand, it is a huge constraint for schools to travel by train to the Brussels zone. Many attractions for schools, such as museums, important companies and this Parliament, are located in our capital city. Because of this limitation on group trips, the train is often not an option for school trips. That is a pity, because young people who learn to drive the train early in their lives are inclined to do so later. Minister, what is your opinion on this matter? How many applications for school trips or group trips are refused per cent during peak hours for this reason?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u63	My dear colleague, SNCB informs me that her customers obviously want to travel comfortably and make sure they find a seat on the train. This certainly applies to large groups, for which SNCB itself reserves the seats. Therefore, SNCB asks to take into account a number of restrictions for group travel. Firstly, a number of trains are not accessible to school groups due to high capacity utilisation. Secondly, on certain dates, the total capacity of trains to popular destinations may be fully booked. If that is the case, SNCB, together with its customer, is looking for the best possible alternative. Thirdly, there is no reservation possible on working days on trains that operate the stations of the Brussels zone during rush hours from 7:00 to 9:00 in the morning and from 16:00 to 18:30 in the evening. On the other hand, in many trains the number of free seats is limited. If you travel with a large group, you have every interest in submitting your application as early as possible. SNCB adds that it does not keep statistics of the reasons why some group trips cannot take place. In the context of a segmentation of customers and tariffs, it seems logical to follow rules that guarantee a seat to the customers who pay the full price, whether with a banknote or with a subscription. Conversely, it is logical that customers, such as groups, who enjoy a reduced-price banknote, should not take the train at a time when demand approaches supply, especially during peak hours. This will also ensure that trains are filled during off-peak hours, which is an essential condition not only for mobility in our country but also for improving the financial health of SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u64	Thank you again, Minister, for your reply. I see a similarity with the answer to the previous question. You literally say that customers with a reduced rate, so group trips, are not allowed on high-capacity trains during rush hours. That's the opposite of logic. There must be solutions to allow as many groups as possible, including in the Brussels zone and also during peak hours. In practice, it often seems to me to be only one class with about twenty pupils. This really cannot have such an impact on the number of seats on the train during rush hour. So here again a somewhat regrettable answer, with here and there the strange logic of SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u65	Minister, I have already asked you a number of questions about the land on the Schaerbeek Training site which is still owned by SNCB. In an interview with Voka, the CEO of Lineas, the former SNCB Logistics, pleads for the preservation of Schaerbeek-Vorming for freight transport. It considers that this is necessary in order to stimulate growth in rail freight transport in the Brussels manufacturing industry. He wants a rail link for freight between the Antwerp port and Brussels City and calls the Schaerbeek-Vorming track bundle an opportunity for this. For example, he specifies that Audi Brussels, which wants to do the transformation into a CO2 neutral plant, would be able to make grateful use of it. Schaerbeek-Vorming is also important for the Port of Brussels and not to disturb the busy North-South connection with freight. The transition to more rail freight is an important objective. The federal government is still subsidising the combined and distributed transport for that reason. This transition is particularly important in terms of mobility, but also in terms of environment and air quality. Where is the transfer of the land from Schaerbeek-vorming to the Brussels Region, which was determined by an agreement from the distant past? Has the Brussels Government indicated what its intentions are with this site?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u66	Ms De Coninck, under the Royal Decree of 30 December 2004, Infrabel is legally obliged to exempt the 40 hectare area owned by the Railway Infrastructure Fund from any occupation by 31 December 2020. Infrabel is preparing to comply with his obligations. For example, Infrabel has started breaking up the track bundles, with the exception of the bundles used for the marshalling movement to the port and for the movement of goods. Infrabel also clears the stored grounds and axes. Infrabel informs me that it is making every effort to fulfil its legal obligations in respect of the area belonging to the Railway Infrastructure Fund and is open to any discussion with the relevant stakeholders with a view to sustaining the movement of goods at Schaerbeek-Vorming. Within the current deadlines, it remains possible for Infrabel to adapt to any agreement reached between the parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u68	Mr President, Minister, in your reply to my written question concerning the reopening of railway line 52, you expressed hope. It is also one of the Flemish railway priorities. The train offer between Antwerp and Puurs has already been greatly extended to a half hour service and on weekends the railway line is now also served via an hour service. However, the railway line still needs to be put into operation towards Dendermonde. This reopening is now apparently being studied. I have a few questions about this. When do you expect the results of the study? What steps are still needed to effectively implement the railway line between Puurs and Dendermonde?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the study will be launched over the coming months and will be phased out. The first interim results are expected by the end of 2019. The study will show exactly what steps are needed for effective re-use. I am thinking, for example, of the renewal of rail infrastructure, signalling equipment, cable works and the necessary equipment for the consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u70	Minister, I look forward to the outcome of the study, which will be completed by the end of 2019. I'm sure I'll keep following this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u71	Mr President, Minister, I come with a very spring subject. The SNCB B-Excursions formula is appreciated by people who do not have other travel opportunities to enjoy a day of relaxation and discovery. This formula is well known. It offers the advantage of a combined "train trip and ticket to a park or museum". Sometimes it is supplemented by a ticket to other public transport companies. Already three years ago, I asked your predecessor, Minister Galant, about the insufficient inclusion of the province of Luxembourg in the development of B-Excursion by SNCB. At the time, only a mountain bike ride in Vielsalm represented the tourism dynamics of Luxembourg in the SNCB brochure. Last year, I had not seen any improvement. Worse still, the situation had deteriorated since no more Luxembourg destinations were included in the paper document available at the station. This year, while new destinations have expanded the brochure, Luxembourg remains desperately the poor or forgotten parent. However, if it is a tourist province, it is the province of Luxembourg. There is no shortage of places with multiple advantages. SNCB does not seem to be more interested than is necessary. There, however, is Arlon, Bastogne or Bouillon. I had a little experience about Bouillon in April last year. I had moved by public transport to Bouillon via the Brussels-Libramont line. I then got on a TEC bus to Bouillon, at the Libramont train station. The affair's pretty good. I had visited the place and had had the pleasure of meeting the mayor of Bouillon, a dynamic man if he is, and active for the defence of his commune on the tourist level. Since then, as an anecdote, I have repeatedly pleaded with a number of Brussels politicians to advise them to organise end-of-year tourist trips from their schools in Bouillon. In any case, in my commune, several communal schools now go to Bouillon, but unfortunately not by train. Indeed, there is no B-Excursions formula proposing Bouillon. But Bouillon's assets are undeniable. Moreover, the Bouillon Communal Council had adopted in the spring of 2017, following my unanimous visit, a motion calling for Bouillon to become a B-Excursion destination because it has the advantages. I do not recall them all, but these criteria include in particular the accessibility of public transport, even if it is necessary to make the link between Libramont and Bouillon through the TEC bus line, the central position of the bus stop of the arrival and its proximity to the Archeoscope Godefroid de Bouillon, a place very interesting and very well staged elsewhere, and with the castle, which is a particular moment of the visit, as well as with the Ducal Museum. Is it worth noting that Bouillon's tourism outreach results in almost 75% of visitors from other provinces, and that more than 50% of visitors to the sites are foreign, with 80 nationalities represented? They visit Bouillon Castle, a locomotive of Bubble Tourism. The large number of visitors to the castle (128,000 visitors in 2016) competes with the Bastogne War Museum, the first place on the podium of the most popular Luxembourg attractions. Bouillon offers the possibility to combine 3 visits over a day and thus to reach an overall price sufficiently high that a reduction on this price can be granted. I still note the professional communication of the Bubble tourist operators. In short, everything already exists in Bouillon to immediately create a B-Excursion destination. However, while it has every interest in filling its trains and the attractiveness of Brussels and Flemish tourists to the province of Luxembourg is no longer to be demonstrated, SNCB continues to show inexplicable rigidity. I could mention the recent statements to the press by SNCB's spokesperson in April 2017, which showed little interest in this destination. Minister, are you ready to support Bouillon's candidacy, a Luxembourg destination that best meets SNCB's criteria, as a new B-Excursion destination? Are you willing to intercede with the public undertaking so that it adapts its criteria to the rural reality of the province of Luxembourg, whose important tourist heritage cannot be ignored? If necessary, could a study of Luxembourg's potential for the creation of new B-Excursion be carried out by SNCB or by any other public initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u72	Dear colleague, you have made your crusade in Bouillon! SNCB informs me that the product B-Excursion is a commercial offer of SNCB which combines the round trip by train (regular offer), the entrance to an attraction and possibly the complementary journeys by bus, tram or metro. It states that a B-Excursion never concerns a city or region in general but a specific and paying attraction or event. The event organizers or the attraction managers must also offer a substantial discount on the entry price, just as the TECs must reduce their rates when part of the journey is by bus. There are many tourist attractions in Belgium. However, for practical, logistical and commercial reasons, SNCB only creates combined formulas for attractions with a wide potential for travellers that is realistically estimated. To assess whether a B-Excursion formula can be created, SNCB uses several criteria, the most important of which are: a round trip on the same day; easy access by train offering a positive experience for travellers – an intermediate journey can also be added (bus, tram, metro) without compromising the smooth running of the B-Excursion –; the national or, at a minimum, trans-regional reach of the attraction; a large number of visitors; the attractiveness of the price; strong and professional communication by the organizer of the attraction. The reason why SNCB does not consider it appropriate to create a Pass formula for Bouillon is mainly due to the length of time it takes to get there, combined with the time it takes to make the most of the activities that would be proposed. The length of public transport journeys (TEC train and bus) to and from Bouillon monopolizes much of the day. The round trip takes 6 hours to travel from Brussels. It would also be useful to know whether TECs would agree to offer a reduction in their tariffs. You can certainly ask the appropriate minister about this. I broke my teeth there for an even greater attraction in the province of Liège. The 40-minute bus journey time included in these journeys greatly increases an already significant train journey. In addition, proposing a formula combined with several activities and three visits would expose travellers to the real risk of not being able to take full advantage of them due to lack of time. This would send back a negative experience of the proposed activities. SNCB informs me that it has widely informed the local authorities about its position as well as about the fact that it is considering the possibility of proposing in the future a new formula, known as "leisure formula", which may extend over several days. In this context, it does not exclude the opportunity to include the Pass to other destinations – whether they are in Wallonia, Brussels or Flanders – a little like the Pass now offered to travellers buying a Pass ticket to come to Brussels and now have a combined round-trip ticket for any destination in Belgium. This is currently being studied as part of the commercial offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answer. Let's be careful, for having experienced it, it seems to me quite possible, even if the journeys are a little long, but it is up to the tourist to choose whether or not to benefit from the formula. I confess that SNCB would be well inspired to trust the tourist candidate who believes that such a destination is highly attractive. Of course, there are many options: not everyone may want to visit the Archeoscope, the castle and the museum. However, at the very least, the castle is the inescapable attraction in Bouillon, of great historical and heritage interest. In my view, SNCB has too quickly prejudged the B-Excursion criteria, since they are undeniably combined for a destination such as Bouillon. I take note of the opening. If we put in place short-stay packages for destinations that offer more satisfaction to potential customers in terms of tourist facilities, that goes without saying. Finally, I dare to believe that, in view of the change of majority in the Walloon Region, you will no longer be confronted with resistance from the Minister responsible for the TECs and that you will be able to enter into a fruitful dialogue to achieve a combined SNCB-TEC offer. We can therefore hope for a result, which will probably be few things, but it remains that the mayor of Bouillon, not so far from your home, will appreciate the efforts made by SNCB and TECs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u74	Mr. President, Minister, according to the press, SNCB has recently been informed of the potential presence of asbestos in the paint of certain freight cars it maintains for third parties. Indeed, analyses have confirmed that several vehicles maintained in its workshops are problematic. After being warned of the potential presence of asbestos in the paint of certain freight cars, SNCB immediately took the decision to take paint samples from all types of freight cars that are maintained in its workshops in Gentbrugge, Antwerp and Monceau. Asbestos has indeed been found in a limited number of samples. Minister, can you clarify to me the current state of the situation? What suites are reserved for them? Have specific measures been taken to protect against asbestos for staff in contact with them? How is monitoring for the future ensured?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u75	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that asbestos has been detected in paint covering certain freight wagons that SNCB maintains for third parties. SNCB has collected paint samples from all types of freight cars built prior to 2000 that are maintained in its workshops in Gentbrugge, Antwerp and Monceau. The workers in the workshops concerned were immediately informed of the situation and measures were taken, in particular with regard to the cessation of certain works. In addition, all measures have been taken to protect staff. Following the results of the in-depth analyses carried out with the competent authorities, SNCB decided to have the workshops in Gentbrugge and Antwerp cleaned up. The employees concerned remained operational during this period and were assigned either to tasks which could be carried out safely on freight wagons or to other maintenance activities such as repair of components, maintenance of passenger cars, etc. All cleaning work in Gentbrugge and Antwerp should be completed on 20 April. As far as the Monceau workshop is concerned, the results of the analyses carried out with the competent authorities have not detected anything at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u76	Mr Minister, a statistical analysis, recently published by the Vias Institute (formerly the Belgian Institute for Road Safety) on the occasion of the Biker's Day in Brussels, shows a 24% decrease in the number of motorcycle accidents over the last ten years, while the number of motorcycles in circulation has increased by 28% over the same period. It should be noted that the Brussels Region is the only one in the country to see the number of motorcycle accidents increasing. And it is in Wallonia that the number of fatal accidents is the largest. What is your analysis of these results, so a decrease overall and an increase in Brussels? Has the minister been able to draw any conclusions from it? Will these results lead to concrete actions or initiatives on your part? What are the reasons for the increase in accidents in Brussels and fatal accidents in Wallonia? Are practical solutions in place to deal with this situation? If so, which ones? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, the improvement of road safety for motorcyclists is the result of a series of measures adopted over the last ten years, including prevention campaigns, infrastructure adaptations, increased speed and alcohol controls and the adaptation of the Road Traffic Code and the rules on driving training and driving licences. With regard to the Road Traffic Code, various adaptations have been made since 2006 to improve the safety of bikers. Thus, the rules for the carriageway space have been amended to allow the motorcyclist travelling on a carriageway divided into traffic bands to stand over the entire width of the traffic band it occupies, notwithstanding the obligation to keep as close as possible to the right edge of the carriageway. Under certain conditions, it is also possible for motorcyclists to travel between two lanes or two lanes at a speed higher than vehicles which are immobilized or moving slowly without being considered an overtaking. Finally, specific rules have also been adopted for the transport of children on mopeds or motorcycles, in order to ensure that they are carried with a restraint system adapted to them. The transport of children under three years of age on a moped or motorcycle has also been prohibited. As part of the ongoing revision of the Road Traffic Code, some adjustments may still be made to improve the safety of bikers. This dossier is currently being submitted to the Regions for their opinion. Since they are now competent in the field of infrastructure, prevention and training in driving, I would like to refer you to them for more information on the solutions they are considering in order to reduce in the future the number of accidents involving motorcyclists within the framework of their skills, bearing in mind that driving training has undergone a profound revision which has undoubtedly also led to a reduction in the number of motorcycle accidents over the last ten years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u78	I do not have much to add, the answer being extremely complete. We should also listen to what the Region has to say about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u79	Minister, the eCall system is mandatory in all new models of cars sold in Europe. This system allows emergency services to be notified immediately, either automatically when the airbags are triggered or manually by pushing a button. In the first case, the call directly sends a message to the emergency call number 112. This is particularly useful when the occupants of the vehicle are unconscious. The operator receives certain information directly from the system, i.e. the location of the accident and the type of vehicle. He also knows if the system has been activated automatically or manually. Depending on the information gathered, the operator of the emergency call centre deploys the means adapted to the situation. In the event of manual activation, the driver shall contact the operator of the emergency call centre and provide detailed data on the accident. Mr. Minister, is there not a concern that drivers will activate the 112 button at any point in time and that emergency services will be overwhelmed by calls that would involve a simple request for assistance and not a vital emergency? If so, what are the alternatives you have planned? If not, why not? This device requires a GSM type telephone link. In "white" areas that do not have a connection, the system logically will not work because there will simply not be a possible connection. Are there practical solutions to deal with this type of situation? My third question concerns the economic consequences of such a system for consumers. What about the privacy aspect? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to point out that the installation of the eCall system in Belgium was carried out by the departments under the responsibility of the Ministers of the Interior and Public Health, in particular because the greatest impact is on the rescue centres which fall within their competence. There is no doubt that these departments have taken stock of the risks of increasing the number of calls, but I invite you, for more explanation, to question them directly on this point. I imagine that this has been discussed both in the European Council and in the departments. I did not participate in these appeals or negotiations. I therefore encourage you to question them in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u81	Mr President, Minister, an article appeared in the press about a failure of the improved tactical management system for Eurocontrol flows. According to this body, the emergency procedures put in place have reduced the capacity of the European air network by around 10%. In addition, he states that the breakdown relates to the system responsible for controlling the number of flights in the air at the same time in the same sector. Minister, do you confirm this information in the press? If so, could you provide us with more details, including the duration of the failure, its consequences on air traffic, on personnel and on users, an assessment of its financial cost and the measures taken at the moment and those envisaged so that this will not happen again in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u82	Dear colleague, the international organisation Eurocontrol has indeed confirmed a technical failure of its improved tactical flow management system, on 3 April 2018 at around 12:30 p.m. As a result, the failure of Eurocontrol to regulate traffic flows in Europe has disrupted aviation activity throughout Europe. As a result of this technical failure, a number of flight plans were lost forcing airlines to reintroduce them into the system. In the afternoon Eurocontrol warned that this failure could lead to delays on about half of the 29 500 flights scheduled for that date on the European network. The problem was solved at about 4 p.m. and the return to normal was proven at about 8 p.m. This was the first failure since 2001. According to our information, in Belgium, for Brussels Airport, seven arrival flights and six departure flights were cancelled. Approximately half of the other flights, i.e. +/- 300 flights, experienced delays of an average of 24 minutes for departures and 30 minutes for arrivals. Solutions have been developed by airlines to ensure that no cancelled passengers are forced to spend the night at the airport. For its part, LAC (Brussels Airport Company) had anticipated the problems that may arise as a result of such a breakdown. Additional crews and beds had been pre-emptively provided to assist potential passengers stranded at the airport, which had also requested an external company to provide support, for example in terms of catering, to such potential persons. Belgocontrol has taken the necessary initiatives to reduce the impact of this breakdown on operations. We can observe that all the actors – Belgonctrol, LAC and airlines – have reacted with good reason to minimize the consequences of this breakdown for travellers. As far as the other Belgian airports are concerned, little information has been provided to us. Eurocontrol said: "The event triggering the breakdown was identified. Measures have been taken to prevent its recurrence. The trigger event is an incorrect link between testing a new version of the software and the operating system in real time. This resulted in the removal of all current flight plans on real-time systems. We are convinced that there has been no external interference." As a reminder, Eurocontrol is the European intergovernmental organisation for the safety of air navigation, founded in 1960, whose main link with Belgium is its headquarters in Brussels. It comprises forty-one Member States, including those of the European Union, but also Ukraine, Turkey and Norway. Its mission is to harmonise and unify air navigation management in Europe by promoting a uniform system for civilian and military users under maximum safety conditions, while minimizing costs and environmental impacts. Of course, Eurocontrol has a special responsibility in the Belgocontrol lasagna, MUAC (Maastricht Upper Area Control Centre) and Eurocontrol.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u83	Minister, thank you for your full answer. The failure is known; it is the installation of a new software. I hope that this will serve as a lesson not to repeat it again, so that it does not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u84	Minister, a very interesting initiative was presented in the press last March. A Belgian-Dutch project tests the installation of smart tarpaulins, equipped with sensors, to protect trucks from theft, intrusions and vandalism. This world premiere, called PASSANT, was presented last month in Ardooie, West Flanders. The pilot project will be tested in Ostend and Moerdijk, the Netherlands. This innovation consists of an intelligent tarpaulin to protect truck loading. The tarpaulin sensors report any attempt at intrusion into a control room. In Ostend, cameras have also been installed which identify license plates and fences equipped with an intelligent system. On the basis of this information, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is your view of this project in a comprehensive way? Could you communicate the cost and detail of the needs that have been required for its implementation? What impact will this project have on the transport of goods?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u85	My colleague, this is a pilot project supported by the European Regional Development Fund, led by various public and private partners from Flanders and the Netherlands. The Vias Institute is also involved in the project that started on January 1, 2018, for a period of three years. Many stakeholders are also involved: industry, carriers, port companies, transport federations, police and customs. The aim of this pilot project is rather within the competence of my colleague the Minister of the Interior, who has already taken initiatives with regard to securing parking lots along motorways for heavy goods vehicles and combating crime in general. Of course, I applaud the technological initiatives of this type, which can give rise to greater security for the freight transport sector. If the project is successful, I imagine that some companies convinced of the cost-benefit ratio will proactively install it on their fleet of vehicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u86	Mr President, Minister, I am addressing a very serious and rather serious subject. It concerns this autonomous car project, which, of course, is a considerable step forward but which raises questions. I've already had the opportunity to question you about this. On March 22, it was reported that an autonomous Uber car had killed a pedestrian because the "driver" had only seen her at the last moment. The U.S. police had released the video of the passive driver and the camera on the vehicle. In the images, from the driver's seat, only the feet of the passerby were first visible in the headlights of the vehicle in autonomous mode on a poorly lit road. A second and a half later, it was the impact. The victim died in the hospital where she was transferred after the accident. The local police indicated that they had posted the video as part of their investigation, in order to determine all the responsibilities of the accident. For information, I would like to remind you that last May I asked you about the national survey of the autonomous car carried out by the Vias Institute with the Belgians to find out how the Belgian driver was apprehensive of the arrival of the autonomous cars. You then told me that "autonomous vehicle technology could be ready by 2020. The current hindrance is legal and international. We must work within the framework of the Vienna Convention, which defines responsibilities and, in particular, the entire insurance framework. The difficulty today is that when you have a self-contained category 5 vehicle, going through phases 2, 3 and 4, when you have an accident, since there are no more drivers, who will be responsible for the accident? The manufacturer of the vehicle, the one who maintains it, the one who makes the software, the one who maintains the software or an external element?" So you summed up by saying that there were two types of brakes: the brake of the international legal context (Vienna Convention) and an obvious psychological brake. Minister, have you been following this unfortunate event? If so, could you remind us what provisions are currently in force or planned in Belgium if this situation arises? Will the passive driver of the autonomous car bear part of the damage caused by his vehicle? Will he be able to see his criminal responsibility committed? In its recommendations for the creation of civil robot law, the European Parliament proposes several solutions under the responsibility of artificial intelligence, including the introduction of compulsory insurance and a compensation fund. Are you in favour of this direction, and if so, do you intend to take an initiative in this area? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u87	I am aware of the accident that occurred during the test involving an automated vehicle. Before drawing any conclusions, it seems to me better to wait for the results of the investigation conducted by the authorities in the United States. In Belgium, a code of good practice detailing the minimum conditions which the competent authorities consider necessary to ensure road safety and minimise potential risks has been drawn up jointly with the Regions. This Code of Good Practice will serve as the basis for granting the necessary authorisations for testing to take place. One of these conditions is that the automated vehicle is insured as such. If, in the context of tests with automated vehicles in Belgium, such an accident occurred, it would be the assurance of the test organiser that should intervene in the first place. If the driver has not behaved properly, the insurer may turn against him. It all depends on the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. With regard to the criminal liability of the driver, a criminal investigation could still be conducted. My conviction is that we must arrive at an objective system of liability, especially for automated vehicles that behave according to their programming, but that would still be involved in an accident. In this case, it seems difficult to maintain the system of liability in the event of misconduct. However, for more information on insurance matters, I would refer you to my colleague from the Economy, who is responsible for the law of 21 November 1989 on compulsory insurance of motor vehicles. I would also like to inform you that, at European level, several working groups, in which I participate with other ministers from other departments, are trying to chart the organisational, technological and safety path of these autonomous vehicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u88	Minister, thank you for the first elements of your response. This subject is extremely important. We will wait for the findings of the investigation to find out more. I will come back to the subject once new elements are known.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u89	Minister, the information that has come to me here too is quite surprising. Looking closer, the explanations are on the way, but I still have questions. The Vias Institute has indicated, on the basis of figures from the Mobility FPS, that some 20,000 Belgians have been granted exemptions for wearing the belt in the last ten years, an average of 2,000 exemptions per year. Although the number of exemptions is decreasing slightly, the road safety body advocates a thorough reform based on the Dutch system. Indeed, in the Netherlands, the exemption body deals with about 500 cases a year, most of which are renewals since the exemption there is only valid for 5 years. Health professionals agree that the benefits of wearing a belt are greater than the discomfort it causes in some cases. Traffic experts, ergonomists and medical and paramedical personnel confirm that there are no medical reasons for exemption. While more than 60 per cent of users killed in a highway accident were not wearing their seat belts at the time of the accident, some 20,000 exemptions have been granted over the past decade, of which three quarters have been granted permanent exemptions. Minister, what is your analysis and position on this? Should the procurement process be reviewed as the Vias application? Is the number of road accidents involving people not wearing their seat belts increasing or decreasing since 2014? What are the factors that explain these developments? Could you provide us with the number of reports to drivers and passengers for the non-wearing of the seat belt?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, seat belts are indeed one of the most cost-effective and efficient ways to reduce the number of fatalities among vehicle occupants. I believe that the granting of an exemption to the wearing of the belt should be an exceptional measure. It is in this sense that the Working Group on the Road Traffic Code has reviewed and revised the provisions on seat belt exemptions. These proposals are currently being submitted for opinion to the Regions, with which wide-ranging consultation had already taken place prior to the amendment of the Road Traffic Code. I do not have figures on the number of road accidents involving people not wearing the belt. The figures relating to the number of offences, i.e. the police findings giving rise to minutes and immediate perceptions concerning the belt and the seats of children, by Region, over the last five years, are given in the table of which I will give you a copy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u91	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that work is under way and that action will be taken soon. Can you give me an idea of the time frame within which the adaptations will be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u92	For the Road Traffic Code?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u93	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u94	A few months. The working group that brought together police, Justice, Regions and the Mobility FPS has now completed its work for three and a half months. It was necessary to formalize the whole, in the form of a royal decree to be submitted to the Council of State. It is currently subject to the opinion of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u95	It'll be for the school year?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u96	Yeah, no doubt, but it's a royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u98	Question No 25015 by Mr Terwingen is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u99	Mr Minister, it seems that the Touquet crossing, located in Blandain in the municipality of Tournai, is experiencing technical difficulties. According to several residents, on 8 March at approximately 10 p.m., an emergency train braked the vicinity of the crossing because the crossing did not function properly, causing severe shaking and noise in nearby homes. According to Infrabel, according to the first elements in his possession, it would be a technical train dedicated to the work that was running on the track (closed at that time) to carry out certain technical checks that caused these nuisances. At the same time, it appears that the crossing is regularly broken down, despite a partial renovation in 2016. It would happen that the passage remained closed for several tens of minutes or even an hour. As a result, some cross it even if the barriers are lowered. Minister, could you tell me more about the incident that would have taken place on March 8th? Has Infrabel conducted an investigation? Do you confirm to me that this crossing is experiencing technical malfunctions at certain times? If so, will measures be taken by Infrabel to remedy this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u100	Dear colleague, Infrabel provided me with the answers to the incident. After investigation, no train reported an emergency braking on that date. A freight train Dunkirk-Liège, with a French driver, travelled from Blandain to Froyennes and passed to Blandain at around 9 p.m. After that, both tracks were decommissioned and turned off and no trains were recorded at approximately 10:00 p.m. In general, long-term closure disruptions at this crossing have rarely been recorded and no cases have been reported recently. There have, however, occasionally been some problems of release due to defects in rail/air contacts. The result was that the crossing only opened when the reverse-track area was released, approximately one minute after the train had passed. To remedy these difficulties, a replacement by magnetic contacts was carried out last year. However, it remains necessary to reiterate that the closure of a crossing constitutes a safety measure and to override that signal, even if the driver considers it to be too prolonged, is both a major violation of the Highway Code and an act of endangering his own life, that of his passengers and that of any person present on the train likely to cross the crossing during this suicide bomber manoeuvre. Infrabel is continuing its awareness-raising campaigns on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u101	Minister, thank you for your answers. You can only relay what you receive from Infrabel. I relay what I hear from some residents. [[Who's right?]] Neither you nor I know. If the barriers can sometimes be closed for more than ten minutes or an hour, I can understand that some people are asking questions and committing the irreparable. As you say, this must not be done, but it can sometimes be understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u102	Minister, I regularly return to you regarding the cleanliness of the railways at Tournai station. In fact, I too often find that they are covered with waste. The competence related to track cleaning has been transferred in recent years from Infrabel to SNCB. However, SNCB personnel still cannot clean the tracks without the presence of Infrabel. In fact, agents must be given a safety function enabling them to take on, after training, the strict procedures for the signalling cabins of Infrabel. This safety function, the staff of SNCB still do not have. In question, a royal decree that is waiting! This legal slowness has very concrete consequences on the ground and there is an urgent need for a solution. Questioned on the subject via a written question in February 2017, you replied that a "first version of the draft had been drafted but that SNCB and Infrabel subsequently announced a new request for amendment, to which it was answered by drafting a new draft. This draft royal decree thus amended a second time will have to be submitted again to the Regions and to the Council of State for opinion. The procedure will therefore have to be recommenced." Minister, can you indicate the state of progress of the Royal Decree? In addition, will your draft law on the introduction of administrative fines for those who contravene the regulations of SNCB and Infrabel help to combat the phenomenon of the dumping of waste on roads, since the text provides for "sanctioning anyone who attempts to defile, destroy or damage railway infrastructure in any way"?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u103	My colleague, indeed, the problem of road cleaning has been going on for some time now. In February 2017, a first proposal for a Royal Order to assign a safety function to SNCB members had been submitted for notice to Infrabel and SNCB. Nevertheless, the latter had expressed their opposition to the project, which was why the project could not be adopted and a second project had been started. Discussions between my administration, SNCB and Infrabel had continued in the course of 2017 with a view to reaching a proposal suitable for all parties. However, in December 2017, it appeared that this discussion did not lead to an agreement between the various stakeholders. The drafting of a new proposal for a Royal Amending Order assigning the security function to the members of SNCB has therefore been abandoned and new proposals have been made by my administration. A bill is currently being prepared to amend the Act of 21 March 1991 on the reform of public and economic enterprises in order to entrust SNCB with the task of cleaning and roads to the exclusion of weeds at unguarded stations and stop points by incorporating it into its public service tasks under section 156 of the Act. In addition, it would also be necessary to amend Article 163c in order for Infrabel and SNCB, within the framework of the transport agreement linking them, to determine the operational arrangements for carrying out this task. As far as your second question is concerned, I can answer the question in the affirmative, since throwing waste on the tracks is a good part of the concept of an infringement of the railway infrastructure provided for in the draft law on the introduction of administrative fines for those who contravene the regulations of SNCB and Infrabel. It is currently possible to punish such conduct on the basis of Article 3(4) of the Royal Decree of 20 December 2007 on the regulation of the Railway Police, which provides that it is prohibited to defile, destroy or damage in any way the railway infrastructure or railway vehicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic867x.u104	Minister, thank you. I am patient but admit that this ping-pong game between Infrabel and SNCB is a shame because, objectively, the first victims are the passengers, the people who come down from a train and find disgusting ways! In my opinion, what is systematically lacking in this kind of thinking is common sense. Of course, this criticism is not addressed to you, however, I find it a pity that both cannot find a solution to ensure that our stations are clean places. You are, have been and will certainly still be a mayor but you know very well that, systematically, when you find something wrong, you do not necessarily find the person responsible and therefore, automatically, the fault is returned to the commune when it does not ask better that all this be clean. But I hope and am patient with you that you will make it work best in the future. Thank you.
