ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u1	Colleagues who have not tabled a question will be able to take the floor if they so wish. We have two hours. It's a little and a lot at once. Given that there is a Conference of Presidents at 12 noon and a plenary meeting this afternoon, I propose that the speakers have five minutes. Agenda item 2 concerns the agenda. Several groups have asked for hearings. I would prefer that the debate on the order of business take place after the political debate with the minister so as not to waste time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u2	Mr President, as a result of the statements concerning a possible power shortage last weekend, I wrote to you a letter calling the committee together as soon as possible, to hear the minister, as well as the other experts, namely Elia, the Federal Planning Bureau and ENGIE. I was therefore a little surprised at the fact that, according to the agenda, neither Elia nor the Federal Planning Bureau and ENGIE are here today, even though they have a lot of useful figures. If we want to get an answer to all our questions, it seems obvious to me that we will hear them very soon. That is why I would ask that the rules of procedure be dealt with quickly and that we consider whether we can invite them to the committee today so that we can get an answer to all our questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u3	Mrs Dierick, I have indeed received a letter from you and other groups and emails containing several proposals for organising hearings. I did not think it was possible to organise all this in a two-hour period. I suggest that we decide when to hold these hearings and what institutions we want to see. The committee must decide on this and that we have the political debate with the Minister today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u4	Mr President, according to my information, Elijah was ready to come here today. Elia wants to come here and give a presentation. The organisation of a hearing at noon, for example, does not seem to me to be insurmountable. It would be a good idea at least to consult Elijah. If that is still possible during the afternoon, then we must not allow that opportunity to be missed. A committee meeting is requested today, of course, to hear the Minister, but also to take note of all the technical details. We need both to be able to go further in the dossier. That is why I urge you to try to get the necessary experts at the table at noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u5	Mr President, I understand the proposals made by members of the majority who wish to receive the experts, particularly from ENGIE, since the minister finally has little to say about this country's energy policy, and it is ENGIE who decides everything. But since we are all gathered and these experts are not going to arrive within five minutes, I propose that we start the debate with the minister, if only to acknowledge the fact that she has little to say about energy policy in Belgium. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u6	Mr President, your proposal was obviously the wisest. The minister is present and willing to answer us. Many arrests have been initiated. Let's have the debate. Of course, we will have to audition Electrabel, the Plan Bureau and Elia very quickly, to get figures. The minister is here: let's move on! Unless some members of the majority don't want to hear the minister, which would surprise me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u7	Mr President, I agree with Mrs Lalieux. We must now, above all, listen to the Minister and listen to the solutions she puts in front of us. After all, we have still not heard these solutions. However, if we are to organise hearings, I would ask that we not only do this with Elijah. We must also hear the FANC and Electrabel. The CREG is also important in the light of price manipulation. So it's definitely not just about Elijah. We need to hear a battery of agencies, preferably as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u8	Mr President, I personally agree with the speakers and I am available at noon to respond to Mr Wollants' request. We don't have to wait in this case. Every day counts and we really need to move forward. As far as I am concerned, I can attend a hearing of people who would be available from noon, if they agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u9	Mr President, I agree with the members who spoke of a hearing. For me, it should have already been scheduled at the same time as this committee's meeting, because it is a global issue. So I insist that we meet both Electrabel and CREG as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u10	Mr President, I would like to urge that the hearing be held as soon as possible, preferably already this afternoon, before or after the plenary session. There's been a lot of communication lately. The markets react very nervously to that. The longer we delay that hearing, the longer it takes for the technical experts to be clear and the more nervous it gets. In short, I agree with the request for the hearing to take place today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u11	Colleagues, many of you want to ask questions about security of supply, which has been a topical issue for several days. We have only two hours, from ten o'clock to noon. For my part, I am available if the meeting should be extended during noon time. This afternoon, there is a Conference of Presidents and a plenary meeting. So will it be possible to hold the hearings at noon? As far as the afternoon is concerned, it is not my responsibility. Unanimity of the Conference of Presidents is required in order to be able to do so during the plenary meeting. The subject is sensitive. Various proposals have been heard. One wants to hear from one institution or another, from another. I will not decide alone to invite Elia, Electrabel, the Plan Bureau, CREG, etc. It is up to the committee to decide who it wishes to invite and it is important to proceed with order and method. Parliament organises its work. The same applies to the commission. That is why I included this item in item 2 of the agenda. Let us take the time until noon to have a political debate with the minister, since there are questions and a topical debate! Then we'll talk about who we're inviting. Now we can act differently. If you wish, we decide at noon who we invite and for when. To invite people at noon seems a little short. There is still a need to agree on the institutions to be invited or not. On the basis of this, I propose not to dwell on the matter, but to discuss it at noon to determine whether we are conducting the hearings this afternoon, after plenary or Friday. Tomorrow, this will not be possible because of the celebration of the French Community. I'm flexible on the calendar. I simply want the committee to determine who it is inviting, because the proposals differ in this respect. It must be decided. The ideal is to do so in a correct and well-organised manner, so that the institutions that come have time to prepare themselves and that we can prepare for the debate. Probably some of them are ready. I guess a lot of people are ready to come up. Mr Calvo, can we not add some for the time being?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u12	Mr President, I believe that the question put by my fellow Members is legitimate. In order to organise this hearing properly, it is important that we look at the technical side together with ENGIE, Elia, the CREG and the Federal Planning Office. It is important that we look at this together, otherwise the cacophony will only be strengthened. For us it is also crucial that ENGIE is present at that hearing, as it bears a huge responsibility in the file. In short, I would like to invite you to quickly find a moment when we can look at the technical side with the various stakeholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u13	Thank you for your proposal and retain the word "cacophony" from your speech. That is what I am trying to avoid, because we have already experienced this phenomenon in the past. If you agree, I propose that we move on to the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u14	Mr President, while we are holding the topical debate with the Minister, there is room to contact the various parties. I think that's useful. I don't know if you've had any contact with any of them in the last few days. It would be interesting to know whether information has come from it for planning purposes. If they can be contacted, we can draw up a more specific planning. Perhaps some of them are ready with their presentation to discuss a number of issues this afternoon. After all, we must have them all scheduled. I think it's a really bad idea to waste time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u15	Mr President, I think the desire to hear from the actors is unanimous. As requested by the Ecolo-Groen group, hearing them at the same time will avoid cacophony. But supply is, above all, a political responsibility. The minister is here. I wish we could hear it. Unless this majority does not wish to refer to the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u16	Mr Wollants, in reply to your question, we will take advantage of the time of our meeting to contact the operators and check when it is technically possible to organise the hearings. I suggest you start with the questions. As they are placed, we will make contacts with a view to proposing a timetable, if this is appropriate for you. If there is no intervention at this stage on the order of business, I invite you to put the questions in the order in which they were introduced. Mrs Lalieux, you have the floor. Each speaker shall be entitled to a maximum of five minutes. We will pay attention to this, as we have already lost twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u17	Minister, it is high time to change your attitude and posture, to stop taking people high and, finally, to assume your responsibilities. You are politically the only one responsible for this debacle and chaos. Minister, security of energy supply is a regal jurisdiction of the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u18	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u19	Mr. Chairman, it would be better if the minister listened to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u20	Everyone listens to everyone! That's very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u21	Minister, I was asking you to take your responsibilities, because you are the sole political responsibility, with the government, for this chaos and this debacle. Security of energy supply is a regal jurisdiction of the federal government. So it is not a producer or a private company that is accountable to this Parliament, but this government, and you in particular, the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u22	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u23	We know what the N-VA's respect for Francophones is worth... I therefore let the Vice-President speak. Your responsibility in this chaos, Minister, is overwhelming. As soon as you took office, you removed the call for tenders launched by the previous government to build a gas power plant. So you have withdrawn it, but so far you have not taken any tangible steps towards the construction of gas-fired power plants, which we would need sorely today. You know that. Then you lost half, if not more, of the legislature by prolonging Doel 1 and 2. According to your government, nuclear was synonymous with low prices - we will talk about it earlier - and security of supply. We see where we are today. The result is this: nuclear power, as we told you four years ago, is the problem, not the solution. While you were singing in a choir with the N-VA - and Mr Wollants did it again today in Le Soir - the praises of nuclear power plants were dilapidating under the weight of time and lack of investment. For the past four years, they have been aware of incident incidents. We remember the micro-cracks of Tihange 2 and 3, the sabotage of Doel 4, the fires of transformers and, now, the multiple problems of concrete. So the disaster was announced, Madam Minister, and you know that very well. But today, you don't face it. You're saying nobody warned you. You are in the dark, as the country may also be! On 29 August, when you decided not to set up a strategic reserve, four out of seven reactors were already stationary and Tihange 2 was about to go into revision. Everyone knew, but you probably didn't. It was a heresy when we saw the current situation and the reasons for this committee meeting. It is amazing that at no time did you take the initiative to consult with the Minister of the Interior, unless you told us otherwise. He was still responsible for the safety of the plants and it was possible to examine, with him, the risks of unavailability of the reactors. By the way, are you speaking in this government? Mr Jambon, strangely silent for the past few days, has he been consulted on nuclear safety and security? You now accuse Electrabel of keeping you in ignorance. But what a confession of weakness, Madam Minister! What a renunciation! The duty of the authorities is to prepare the worst case scenario. It is not taking for money what private actors communicate, whether it is Electrabel or Elias. What is the point of being surrounded by a firm and having an administration if security of supply is to be delegated to private actors? Madam Minister, your responsibility is clear, but the most important thing is to find solutions to protect the population from being relieved. For it is first and foremost a health hazard, for example for the elderly, and for safety. Urgent action is needed. We have passed a law to allow emergency generators to participate in the strategic reserve. You haven't activated this law yet. Industrialists who are ready to reduce their consumption by means of interruptible contracts must be brought together. We need to activate the Vilvorde power plant and the interconnections. Finally, we need to relaunch the ON/ OFF. I come to my questions, Mr. President. Minister, can you detail the situation of our electricity supply park this winter? What is the probability that the release plan will be activated? If so, which municipalities will be the first affected? What additional measures are you going to take to ensure the supply of electricity to households and businesses this winter? Why not call for tenders for demand reduction capabilities (interruptible contracts or other products) or emergency generators? This could be done within the framework of the strategic reserve. Minister, what will be the impact of this chaos on consumers' bills? I would remind you that almost 40% of consumers have variable contracts. It's not nothing! The figure of an increase of EUR 200 to EUR 250 per household was mentioned by the press. When you know that you have already increased the bill by 150 euros with the increase of VAT from 6 to 21 %, this becomes unbearable. That's 350 euros. Minister, we have a bill to reduce VAT. All you have to do is vote for it! Finally, in your interviews, you said that the government was legally considering the possibility of Electrabel paying the increases in household and business bills. I would like to know whether here before our committee you are prepared to commit yourself so that the citizens will recover the surplus they will suffer on their bill because I fear again, Madam Minister, that these are words in the air. In fact, Electrabel has already sent you to the ropes. Today, Madam Minister, the balance sheet of your policy is just an increase in the bill for citizens, for households and for our industries. The rest is zero!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u24	Madam Minister, I hope that today will be clear, because it is now unclear and therefore an asset of uncertainty. Last weekend, the Federal Planning Agency announced that there might be a power shortage. That news hit like a bomb. After all, at the end of August there was a hurray vote, because we did not need a strategic reserve. A month later, we are suddenly stuck with the sample of the exit plan. That's hallucinating. Our strategic reserve looks like a yo-yo. First it was 500 MW, then zero and suddenly we have to use the shutdown plan. I do have some questions about that, and I hope that Elijah will be able to give answers. Of course, our security of supply must not be played. I therefore hope that every effort will be made to keep the light on. There must be peace in the markets and among our inhabitants. What bothers me most about communication is that there are no figures available. We have not yet heard the experts from Elijah, who are responsible for maintaining market balance and who have to match supply and demand. So I hope that will happen soon. So we still haven't gotten the exact figures. Yesterday you spoke for the first time. You shot at ENGIE with a sharp shot. Let me be honest, that's not my first priority. I want solutions to be found as soon as possible to avoid a possible power shortage. The lamp must remain on. Together, we must do everything we can to achieve this effectively. There are two big questions. How problematic is the situation? How big is the problem now effective? What can we expect? Until today, we have still not received any figures. I hope that will be clarified. If there is an effective risk of a power shortage, solutions must be sought. In the first instance, ENGIE needs to be looked at. That organisation is responsible for serving its customers. I just read on a website that ENGIE has already found 750 MW. I would have liked to have been clear about how she will solve the problem. We also need to look at our strategic reserve. It is now 0 MW. Is it an option to reverse the ministerial decision of 29 August? Is that legally possible? If so, which power stations can be contacted if necessary? Is that an option or not? It is also commonly reported that Tihange 1 is in maintenance from October 20th until November 28th. It is certainly not the job of politicians or a minister to change the way we operate our nuclear power stations. After all, that is a decision of the FANC. ENGIE can, of course, contact the Agency to see if the track can be continued. Perhaps you could give some explanation about that as well. Are there any other possible shifts in the maintenance of nuclear power plants? I hope to get an answer to that, too. Another possible solution, often cited, is the Vilvoorde gas plant, which is currently in the mothballs. Can it possibly be switched on and be a possible solution or part of the solution? Can we get more power? I would have liked the most exact figures on this too, because I do not have any figures on this either. Can agreements be made with abroad? You have announced that you have contacted your colleagues. Can you explain what the results are and whether that can be a solution? Of course, there is also demand management. We can also secure our supplies via that slope. I would have liked to have heard more about this. Of course, it is everyone's first concern that the lamp stays on, but we are also concerned about prices. The markets are reacting very restlessly. Prices are rising, and we must also take this important aspect into account in the discussion. I therefore expect measures, Madam Minister, to ensure that consumers do not suffer from higher prices. I will stick to my speaking time, so that my colleagues can also speak. We insist that solutions are offered so that the lamp remains lit. We must work together to find solutions, because a cut-off and a blackout are certainly not an option.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u25	Mr Nollet, a small technical development: I propose to warn you when you are in the last minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u26	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to go back to what you said on Monday at a press conference. I still can't believe it! And I took them back as they were, because I heard what you were saying on the radio. I quote you: "I learned the information about Tihange 3 overnight and it shockes me terribly in the head of Electrabel." Without repeating your entire press conference – it would be too long – here's your second comment: "It's a thunderstorm in a cloudless sky!" Nuclear power in Belgium, "a cloudless sky"! But do you live on another planet? Four of our plants have a concrete problem in their ultimate emergency building. Two power plants are cracked. Two others have leaks in the nuclear part. One of our plants has been sabotaged, two are out of date, we already know and we can see it every day! And you see a beautiful sky there: there is not a single cloud! But where do you live? Do you sometimes take the time to go through the newspapers? Do you take time from time to time to examine the state of the energy park on which you rely? How can you talk about "cloudless sky"? I don't understand! I ask you to explain, it's as basic as that. Second element. You say you learned the information "from day to day" about Tihange 3. But - I checked the dates again this morning - the problem of concrete in the Doel 3 bunker dates from October 2017! At that time, as part of my parliamentary work, I asked Minister Jambon: "Mr Minister, are you sure that this problem in Doel 3's bunker is not going to be found in other power stations as well?' In similar plants, i.e. the four recent ones and not the three oldest ones. The minister replied: "No, we have every guarantee that this will not happen elsewhere. Studies have been carried out." It's October 2017. All right, we can still believe that at that time, you rely on this "error" of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA). I will come back to that with Mr Jambon, because I think it is a very serious mistake! But in April 2018, we realize that exactly the same problem arises in Tihange 3's ultimate rescue bunker as in Doel 3. Madam Minister, at that point in time, does not a click occur in your reasoning leading you to think that if there is a problem in Doel 3 and Tihange 3, there might be problems in the other power stations as well and that you must therefore exercise caution? At that time, one of your collaborators did not say to you: "Madam the minister, be careful! Because we're in trouble on nuclear power plants"? Two months later, in June, I rest the questions with the minister. He tells me that Tihange 3 is more serious than Doel 3. Indeed, in Doel 3, there is only one concrete problem, whereas in Tihange 3, following the scraping of the concrete, it turned out that the reinforcements do not meet the standards. At that time, no one - either a member of your administration or one of your collaborators or yourself - is there any question? It had been said that the situation at Doel 3 was not too serious and that it would not affect the other power stations. In June, a similar problem was detected in Tihange 3. Therefore, do you not think that a problem could arise elsewhere (Tihange 2 or Doel 4)? No! At no time do you think about it when you decide not to have a strategic reserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u27	Mr. Nollet, you've got a minute left. I realize it's very short.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u28	Later, problems are also detected in Doel 4 and Tihange 2. Do you not think, before your press conference, that you should be careful and not develop arguments that you would have become aware of this situation overnight? If you've been informed overnight, it's because there are some famous gaps in your internal information system. You haven't been able to anticipate. That's what I blame you for. Mr President, I obviously have questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u29	Then come quickly!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u30	Minister, in your opinion, how big is the problem? What is the extent of the need? Why is Elia silent? Why do we still have no figures other than those of the Planning Office, which I would also like to thank? What solutions do you propose? This morning, on the radio, you showed yourself very, very vague, but that's what you'll say here will count. What new solutions are you proposing and are not already accounted for? Having contacts with Germany or the Netherlands is very good, but what commitments have they given, in case they too are under pressure? Does all solutions correspond to the overall risk and threat in megawatts? I'd like to have your demonstration. Madam Minister, on Tuesday, you announced on RTBF that "in the event of a shortage of electricity, the impact on the bills of citizens and businesses would be borne by Electrabel". My question is simple. Is this an up-to-date statement or one that you could reproduce as it is in Parliament as an official commitment, which would allow citizens to say: "You will not pay for the errors of the government (lack of anticipation), of Electrabel (problems in its power stations), of Elia (miscalculations, if any) and of all the others"? Minister, citizens and businesses have heard what you said on the radio. That is why I am asking you today to make an official commitment to Parliament by saying, black and white, that what you have said on the radio is a commitment that you are taking on behalf of the government: they will not pay for your mistakes!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u31	Firstly, we do not need to be an ancien in our committee to share the feeling of many citizens, namely that there is once again a debate on a possible blackout. This feels very much like 2012, because in autumn 2012 there was a panic when we were confronted with the cracks in two nuclear power plants. Since then we have had all kinds of problems, from sabotage and the lingering problem of the cracks to now so concrete rot. Madam Secretary, it can and should not be a surprise. In fact, today's problems are your responsibility and are the result of the fact that you wanted to stick to the old nuclear power stations. The penalty is that one nuclear reactor will be operating in November, and that is a nuclear reactor that has been stationary for 60% of the time since 2014. There will be another one that will work and that is one that has stood still for more than half-time in recent years. It can and should not be a surprise that our country is facing a problem of security of supply, because nuclear power stations are the problem rather than the solution. Like other Members, I wonder how you dare to do it, where you get the courage to be surprised when it comes to these problems. You created them yourself; you yourself made sure that there is no strategic reserve today. The problems of concrete rot were known when you made that decision. The problem of concrete rot did not arise this autumn, but has been dragging on for a long time and yet in August you decide not to create a strategic reserve. I don't understand. You have an incredible responsibility in that regard. Secondly, there is something very strange going on. It seems as if Paris is playing with our feet and is manipulating our market, because immediately after the decision on the strategic reserve, certain decisions were redirected. Since the decision not to create a strategic reserve, Electrabel plans an additional maintenance at four nuclear power plants. The operator has a huge responsibility there. I also wonder where Elijah was. After all, Elijah also reads the newspapers and hopefully also consults with you and with the FANC. There are a lot of problems. Madam Minister, specifically in the light of the organisation of the chaos, I would like to ask that the CREG, our energy regulator, launch an investigation into the market manipulation of Electrabel, which will map out what is going on there, what is going on there, and make a fist with us against that annoying monopolist. The CREG and Parliament can do this together. Third, the day before yesterday, you held your improvised press conference, all alone. He was pretty hallucinating. There were also quite a lot of questions, but very few answers. Instead of coming up with a solid plan, you start improvising on the radio today and announce that 750 megawatts would be available, a volume that is owned by Electrabel. I have two problems with that, Madam Secretary. That looks very much like panic football and also causes uncertainty. A minister must now do only one thing: to sit with the services and come up with a final plan and not send balloons into the world; that is what it looks very much like. Moreover, it would be very strange for the taxpayer, the energy consumer, the Belgian State, Electrabel to provide additional funding for the capacity we need, because Electrabel itself is failing. So I want to make that very clear today. What's the 750 megawatt right? By the way, when you first entered the Chamber, you told the journalists who asked you questions about this, that you could not answer them. An hour after your own statement about 750 megawatts, your answer is:je ne sais pas vous répondre. That's hallucinating; the chaos can't be clearer. So I would very much like you to tell us a little more about the 750 megawatts available and to make it clear that we will not be funding Electrabel in addition to that. Finally, you have announced that you want to investigate a legal claim. I think there is enough ground to formulate that legal claim today. Electrabel has a huge responsibility. The damage is already there, it is not only there when the light goes out. The economic damage and the image scandal are already there. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, to make that claim today and to make it very clear to Parliament and to the public that the Belgian taxpayer will not pay for the mistakes. A claim must therefore be made and all responsibility and every possible euro must be sought from Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u32	Madam Minister, I asked you identical questions in plenary last Thursday to those put by Members here today. You laughed a little and replied that you had everything under control. There was no problem. Everything was under control. What happened or was happening was a harbinger of the nuclear trip; that was grossly Modo your answer. What, however, is happening over the weekend? Suddenly, the Planning Bureau notes that we will be faced with a problem. What some Members and I indicated a long time ago, and what was repeated last Thursday, was confirmed last Sunday, during the weekend. Suddenly there's a huge panic. Suddenly you also fall completely out of the sky. You don't know what's happening. You will tell us that you will explain more at a press conference the next day. Madam Secretary, there are three major questions. First of all, how big is the problem for November 2018? Secondly, what plan do you have to solve the problem? Thirdly, how will you ensure that the consumer does not pay for this and that the consumer does not pay for your mistakes and the mistakes of Electrabel? Everyone thought that at the press conference you would answer those three questions. Too bad, but unfortunately, there was no answer to those questions. Once again, nothing but vague statements and accusations. Again, it's someone else's fault, namely Electrabel. That's what's finally happening. After all, where is the time when you and Prime Minister Michel and the people of Electrabel gave a major press conference on the extension of the life of our nuclear power plants? You stated at that time that you would realize two things: there would be no more power shortage, so the power supply would be insured, and prices would be completely under control. Madam Secretary, today is a very different story. I still have a number of additional questions. Elia sent you a study on the strategic reserve on 15 November 2017. In it, Elia says there's a 900 MW margin. You are forward-looking and, despite the margin, you still have a strategic reserve of 500 MW. That's very good, you're careful. You finally realize that the nuclear power stations are unreliable after all, and you are trying to cover yourself. But the market is changing. This is how Seraing's plant announces that it will enter the market. That's why you're ordering an update of the study from Elia. The new analysis shows that there would be a surplus of 300 MW. You decide that there should be no reserve. Madam Secretary, why are you being forward-looking and cautious in November 2017 and are you suddenly, a few months later, not being cautious at all? We all know that Elijah also knows that the nuclear failure is on average 1 MW. However, it does not take into account the calculation of the last five years of the programme. That's really weird. Following the decision not to provide a strategic reserve, ENGIE Electrabel decides to organise a number of maintenance orders in nuclear power stations. It's weird, though. Hence my question. Why are you being careful and then being totally thrown overboard? Secondly, Madam Secretary, have you consulted the FANC over the past few months on the Electrabel calendar? You say you're falling completely out of the sky. Knowing what we all know, namely that our nuclear power stations have been completely unreliable in recent years, knowing that so much is still standing still, knowing that there is always a danger, it would be normal that you, as Energy Minister, would have consulted the FANC on the Electrabel calendar, to see if things were right. Thirdly, Madam Secretary, you suspect that there is price manipulation by Electrabel. Then why did you set up a federal energy committee this summer, with which you just made Electrabel the guardian of the purchasing power of the families? Again, if you are now saying that Electrabel may be involved in price manipulation, why did you set up that federal energy committee this summer, making Electabel the guardian of the price yourself? How do you expect this so-called neutral committee of only companies to monitor the cost to the people? We have questioned you on several occasions and you said that the committee will be neutral. A few months later, you accuse Electrabel of a form of price manipulation. That is a very strange coincidence of circumstances. Let's look at the solutions, Mrs Marghem. You announced this morning that you have a 750 MW solution? Could you give me some details on that? After all, it remains very vague. When I hear the colleague, you say yourself that you do not know where you got the 750 MW. Perhaps you will be able to clarify that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u33	Mrs. Temmerman, could you please finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u34	Mr President, I will try to conclude. For the solutions related to Tihange 1 maintenance, let's be clear: safety above all else. But perhaps you can also negotiate that this maintenance will take place sooner, so that we can have more certainty. Madam Secretary, in 2015, you and Prime Minister Michel made a deal with Electrabel. This was intended to ensure security of supply, a switch to renewable energy and to maintain prices, in other words, low price increases. Not one of these points was realized, with very damaging consequences for the user. It is predicted that this will cost EUR 300 per year. On my last question, which I have just asked, I would really like an answer. I asked you this question on Thursday. What measures will you take to ensure that the consumer does not have to pay for this? Are you finally prepared to reduce the increase in VAT on electricity from 6% to 21%, a very unfair measure, and thus treat electricity as a necessary commodity, on which people have to pay 6 % VAT and not 21 %?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u35	Minister, it's September 26th. On 18 September, I asked you in this committee about the unavailability of much of our nuclear fleet. Your answer was very sibyllin. I quote you, Madam Minister: "I cannot assume of the future and do not hold a crystal ball allowing me to foreshadow damage that can sustain in a production unit this winter." You concluded: "This will not be a problem for the supply. We'll cross our fingers." The boomerang didn't take long to get back to you. I guess your wake-up must have been tough. I remind you you've been a minister for four years. In my question, I asked you about the appropriateness of Elia's assumptions that seemed unrealistic to me. As my colleagues have pointed out, the problem appears on the big day this week. You reject responsibility for the situation on ENGIE Electrabel. In your interviews, you do so on behalf of the federal government. It's written black and white. In other words, it is a government problem. Therefore, Madam Minister, I wonder today about the reality of Elia's figures, as well as your lack of vision, since you did not see the extent of the problem. Have you checked these numbers? Do they correspond to those of DG Energy? Minister, it is time to objectify the situation with clear data and detail your action plan. Are you going to take specific action? I ask you these questions, minister, on behalf of both the residential consumer and the industrial consumer. Both fear the shortage and, above all, the amount of the bill that is likely to reach them. As far as they are concerned, they do not want a "Margem tax" resulting from your absence of anticipation. The image of your government, champion of purchasing power and business competitiveness, has evaporated at once. Minister, you're talking about strengthening interconnections when you talk about procurement. These interconnections have already been put in place during the previous legislature. You mention imports as a solution to the electricity shortage. Elia is based on a capacity of 4,500 MW, but DG Energy is more cautious in its figures and speaks of 2,500 MW. Another problem: have you verified the potential implementation of this scenario? Are you assured of the availability of the French nuclear park? You are well aware that a reduction of one degree Celsius in France is equivalent to 1,000 MW. With regard to the Capacity Remuneration Mechanism, we are nowhere. I was still asking you about that last week. You have also provided for a one-time auction mechanism, which was none other than the mechanism put in place by the previous government to remedy this situation. Minister, clearly, where are you now with this mechanism? Mr President, I come to my last question, so as not to exceed my speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u36	Mr de Lamotte, I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u37	Mr. Chairman, I am particularly eager to hear the Minister's answers. Minister, we want you to be able to present us with a precise and costed plan, both in terms of capacity and cost, to address the procurement problem that we may face as early as November. This is your political mission. That is what we are waiting for, so that we can discuss it clearly and precisely. I would also like to hear from you about a consultation with the regional ministers, given the development of the issue and the situation that the regions and our communes are likely to face.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u38	Mr President, Minister, let me quote the 2014 Government Agreement: "This government is aware of a potentially problematic short-term security of supply situation. He intends to take this problem by arm-to-body to avoid the risk of a shortage of electricity." Four years later, Madam Minister, I quote: "For now, we cannot say whether or not there will be a power cut." Reassuringly, you yourself also see a total failure of the government over the last four years? What disappoints everyone in this room is the faculty with which you can look the Belgian people straight in their eyes, saying: "There is no problem. There is no failure." Four years ago, you made a commitment to solve the problem. Nothing's solved. Minister, we need to hear you say that this is a clear failure of the government. We need a minister who can tell us: "We can't solve problems. Let's have a debate!" We don't want to hear there's no problem. Ten days ago, quiet, you said we don't need the energy reserve. It's winter. It's gonna be cold and we're gonna heat up more. You make us feel like you don't give a shit about how to solve the problem. It's totally disconcerting. Some colleagues hypothesize that you are incapable. I can understand their arguments. Personally, I do not believe that this is the fundamental problem. I think that the biggest problem in Belgium is because you agree as Minister of Energy that the Energy Minister has nothing to say about the energy market, but that Electrabel decides everything about how and when electricity is produced, in short, that the market simply decides everything. In this sense, there is collective responsibility as a result of the wave of liberalisation, assuming that the energy market would ensure that we would receive sufficient electricity on time. That was the dogma. All governments, and certainly the Michel government, are now saying that it is not their fault and that the market is not responding. That is the problem, Madam Minister, that all this power is in the hands of Electrabel. Moreover: what have the employees of your own firm who have previously worked at Electrabel done? What did they say in all this sequence? The issue of transparency is interesting, and we have already discussed it. What was the weight of the lobby in this process of bad decisions? This is my first question and I hope to hear you on this. Secondly, the solutions. You tell us: "No problem, we're going to import from Germany, the Netherlands, France". Now, what if there is a problem with them? Because you repeat exactly the same problem, the same mistake as in Belgium. You say "if everything is in order, if everything is 100%", and that is precisely the mistake, Madam Minister! That's what you're wrong about! For there can of course be problems, especially if they are announced in advance. That's exactly your mistake. Just now, when you responded to the media, you weren't even able to justify the 750 MW: "Yes... no... it's not very clear... the last 200...we're going to increase capacity. It is true that for Germany there is no direct connection, but we will make a detour by the other countries". You weren't able to justify the 750 MW. You're in the most complete improvisation and I think it's really irresponsible. So I'm going to give you a piece of the solution: I think we need to intervene in the market. The market must be controlled. We have to act. In 2017, so one year ago, we launched an open tender for our strategic reserve. Nine companies made an offer at that time. Where are these companies today? The call for tenders was launched last year. Where are these abilities? Today, ladies and gentlemen, there are companies waiting to make their capacity available to the Belgian people and companies to raise prices, while waiting for subsidies. No more subsidies, minister! Electrabel is responsible! I would like to know what concrete steps you are going to take. It is obviously unacceptable for companies to organise the shortage themselves: Electrabel and other companies have closed production units themselves because the market was not profitable, because it did not bring enough pepets. It's not okay anymore! The market is not able to guarantee the supply of our country. It is only able to guarantee benefits. The problem is there, Madam Minister. As a minister, you must defend all the interests of the Belgian population. You must intervene in the market. So I ask you: where are the nine companies that have made bids, offers for our strategic reserve? What are they doing today? What are these production units doing today?I ask you to intervene to force them to relaunch the whole market at the lowest price. Last point, Mr President: who will pay? Belgians will pay between 100 and 150 euros more for their electricity bill because of your mistakes and those of Electrobel. It is unacceptable for the public to pay for your mistakes. I ask you: what measures are you going to take to compensate for these errors in the bill for the population? We're talking about 10 to 15 percent increase in the electric bill. This corresponds exactly to the proposal I made last week to your Finance colleague, namely a VAT reduction of 21 % to 6 %. I want to know your opinion: do you not find that, exceptionally, because of this error which will increase the electricity bill of the population by at least 15%, the government should take a step to assume its responsibilities and increase VAT exceptionally from 21 % to 6 % to compensate the cost to the population? Finally, at the level of Elias, what is the precise, quantified scale of the problem? Can you tell us the origin of each of the 750 megawatts you announced this morning? I'm not just talking about the Vilvorde power plant, that's clear. I'm talking about the other 550 megawatts. Can you detail where they will come from? When? Will that be enough? I look forward to hearing your answers, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u39	Colleagues, first of all, it is good to consider the way in which we have entered this situation. In recent decades, very little has happened in terms of production capacity. Moreover, many generations of politicians have actually seen the liberalisation of the energy market as a liberalisation of the obligation to conduct an energy policy. This led to the core exit, as put forward in 2003, without a replacement plan, without an investment plan. It is only in 2012 that a number of people are beginning to see that this does not work and that, if they are to be successful, investments must be made. That was a timid attempt, by the way. We have to be honest about that. The quote question that was launched at that time did not lead to anything. What is more, Europe has destroyed this way of working, as it would shut down existing gas plants even faster than before. Where are we today, in view of the core exit, as decided by purple-green, and the extension of the lifetime of Tihange 1 by the previous government? In both cases, four to five nuclear power plants should continue to operate until 2022. This was also taken into account by all the parties present here. The penalty of the matter is that, according to the timetable after November, I hope that I may have some confidence in it, the nuclear power stations Objective 1 and Tihange 1 will be the first to re-enter. I believe that investment in nuclear safety must be made absolutely. No one is questioning the need to tackle the problem of concrete rot. But that brings us to the familiar situation. Madam Secretary, how do you look at the maintenance work, as they have been put forward by ENGIE? What's your vision on that? What do you learn from the communication from the Planning Bureau? What findings does Elia make? How much is the exact deficit? Maybe more importantly, how many hours will it take? This is important if we are to find the right solutions and alternatives. Shutdown is not an option. Our families and businesses must be guaranteed that the light stays on. I would very much like you to confirm that. No strategic reserve was created on the basis of the information available at the time, but had it not been advisable to establish a certain reserve and to record the energy available now, inter alia, by working on the proposal on demand management, which Restore recently announced, and on the idea of seeking energy at the Vilvoorde power station, a suggestion that I had suggested in recent days? Another possibility is a shift of reloading Tihange 1. I realize that this will cost the operator, but that will have to be done. Should the maintenance of, for example, Coo 5 and Rodenhuize 4 power stations take place during that period? I am sure that you are also thinking of other solutions. Madam Minister, I ask you to communicate clearly about the feasibility of the various options. This is also important for our energy market. Some of the price increases are due to uncertainty. It is the companies and families that are the victims of price pressure. It is up to you to clarify, to calm the markets and to roll out solutions. In other words, we expect results, both for the energy supply and for the price. I expect you to clarify this here and now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u40	Electrabel's announcement last week that the maintenance of Tihange 2 and Tihange 3 will not be done in September-October, but in March-June, has started a whole communication and caused a lot of confusion. There are only three ways to produce electricity: in a renewable way, in all its forms, in a fossil way, in all its forms, and through nuclear power plants. Each of those three production ways has advantages and disadvantages. One advantage of nuclear production is that there is no CO2 emissions. In any case, we should be able to count on a steady production of nuclear energy, which could provide a basis that we can count on. Electrabel's sudden announcement has given confidence in nuclear energy and the whole energy sector a firm dent. We have also felt this in the markets, which have started to react very ficklely, which has led to a rise in prices. There is therefore an urgent need to do something about this. We expect the speakers of Elia, the CREG, the Planning Bureau and ENGIE, who have been asked and whom we hope to receive as soon as possible, to come here with a clear message and unambiguous statements, so that the scattered messages of sin do not become reality. Madam Minister, I already have a few questions for you today, although most of them are addressed to the other bodies. Have you already found additional capacity, both on the demand side and on the supply side? Are there any additional production possibilities? Have there already been contacts with large consumers to possibly regulate their consumption according to market needs? Are there any calls from abroad? Can you give an overview of that? Are there any concrete results? Today we read in De Standaard that almost the full capacity is being introduced today. Are there any possibilities to expand these imports? What are your expectations? With regard to Tihange 1's maintenance, can the replacement of the fuel components be postponed, so that supplies will be assured in November? This must of course be discussed with ENGIE and the FANC. Finally, undoubtedly the most important question for all those who searched Google whether or not they live in a disconnect area: can you guarantee that there will be no problem in November?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, no one believes that the adaptation of the maintenance schedule for the nuclear power plants and, in particular, the Tihange 2 and 3, postponing the end of their unavailability to March and June 2019, would have been unknown to the government and that it would be a sudden revelation, fallen in recent days. This maintenance schedule is under the control of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCAA). This information was certainly communicated by Electrabel to AFCN and then by AFCN to the government. I would like to know the precise timing, date by date, of the communication of Electrabel's information to AFCN and AFCN to the offices of the ministers concerned, the appropriate minister, Mr. Jambon, and you. I insist on having a date-by-date calendar. Or you'll tell us that there's been a detention of information. In this case, at what level? Electrabel? AFCN? Mr. Jambon, your government colleague? No one today imagines that, in this chain, there have been failures at all levels and that this has been only a revelation to you last weekend. Minister, it is also time to have certain figures. Let's start with the strategic reserve. To a parliamentary question last February, you said that "there would be, at least, a strategic reserve of 725 MW for the winter 2017-2018". You must have already revised your forecast downwards. We went from 900 MW to 725 MW at the end of the process. Today, what is the actual capacity of the strategic reserve? With which production units? Other colleagues have questioned your forecast to have a strategic reserve of 750 MW. In any case, this strategic reserve would not be able to cope with the shortage announced in November, which would be 3,800, or even 4,500 MW. Today, what certainty do you have of being able to rely on a foreign supply? Assuming that your strategic reserve is 750 MW, which I doubt, you would still need a little more than 3,000 if we were to face a very cold November. Which foreign suppliers would have already made commitments in wholesale markets? What are the negotiation processes involved? Let us now come to the price for consumers. In 2016, the increase in VAT on the price of electricity allowed the government to earn an additional 712 million revenue. That is what has been punctured in the pockets of industrial and private consumers! Today, experts are announcing a minimum increase of 30% in the electricity bill for this winter. Similarly, this represents such a significant increase in VAT revenues. It is not for a single moment imaginable that, in the end, the government will take advantage of the disaster that it itself has caused to increase the budgetary revenues that could fill the gaps caused by its bad political and economic choices. It would be paradoxical for the government to announce in a few months' time that it will have additional revenues while their real source would be the unpredictability of your energy policy management. We therefore call for a clear and precise commitment on your part that there will be no additional euro of revenue which will not be returned in any way to the consumer. I had suggested this, but we want to know what is the mechanics: a temporary reduction in VAT or a long-term reduction in VAT on electricity? "Electricity" cheques given to households (by which mechanisms and criteria, etc.)( )? While not losing sight of the industry sector which will also be severely affected in terms of energy costs? The questions are specific. No more falsifiers but certainties, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u42	Minister, the non-availability of six of the seven nuclear reactors in November is a problematic situation. We know you're in contact with the actors. You are in consultation with producers, carriers and regulators, with neighbouring countries too, in order to guarantee the maximum supply of electricity this winter and for all consumers. The priority is to find solutions that guarantee our security of supply and maintain an invoice at an affordable price for households and businesses. We hear opposition to the fact that this government is doing nothing for the energy transition, but I would like to point out that this government is the one that has done the most for alternative energies so far. I recall the measures taken: firstly, support for the establishment of new wind turbines in the North Sea. The completion of the three fleets planned for 2020 will enable the fulfilment of the obligations regarding the Belgian climate and energy targets 2020 for 13% renewable energy in the energy mix and we are also certain that by 2030, offshore wind will produce an amount of electricity equivalent to two nuclear power plants. Secondly, the Transition Fund to the tune of 200 million for the development of innovative projects for the energy transition. Thirdly, the enhanced interconnections, under this legislature, with neighbouring countries which offer an additional capacity of 500 MW; finally, the conclusion of the Energy Pact establishing for the first time a common energy vision. The Government has validated the federal energy strategy by pursuing the following objectives: ensuring security of supply, respecting the Paris Accords, maintaining a price for energy at an affordable price for companies, including electro-intensive companies, and families, and ultimately maintaining the highest level of plant safety. We can say that our government is the only one that has been fully committed, since 2003, to preparing for the release of nuclear power. It is one thing to regret that all this happens very late, but in substance we all agree on this point, it should have been done as early as 2003, and not only today. Minister, do you think the energy strategy is an adequate response to the energy challenges facing our country? What are the first results of the contacts you have already made?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u43	Colleagues, if there is no other request for intervention, I would like to thank all the speakers. I believe that we have just completed a first round of interventions in serenity, which is a very good thing in itself. We must of course continue like this, and in a more or less controlled time of speech. Minister, it's 11:24 a.m. and we heard 11 interventions. In any case, Parliament is clearly asking for your answers. I did not give a timing, but I would point out to colleagues that there will of course be a reply, which is limited to two minutes. So be concise in the lines. Eleven two-minute interventions already represent a certain amount of time. We're listening to you, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u44	Mr President, in view of the importance of the questions asked, I would like, for the time remaining, and since Parliament has to reply, to make some adjustments. Colleagues, thank you for your questions and interventions. I would like to remind you, despite what you are saying and what you can see, sometimes by cutting phrases or communications at a given time, that it is still extremely problematic and shocking to see - and I will give the answer in the nuclear subcommittee on this subject, Mr Nollet - that an operator who has the upper hand on the possibility of organising his work as recommended by AFCN, lets himself go to start his work with the surprises that he might encounter, in a period that will lengthen, near the winter period, while this operator is dominant – that has been said by some of you – in the electric market, while it has an overwhelming position since it produces 54% of the electric mix and responds to 54% of the electricity demand. This operator says today that he has informed. But at two moments, he made questionable decisions: when according to the law the strategic reserve is frozen and, overnight, it was learned that Doel 1 and Doel 2 who had to come back, will come back later, that is, in December. Then, on 21 September, we learn that Tihange 2 and 3 will only return in spring and summer. I will read the answer that was given to you in the nuclear safety sub-committee on 7 February 2018 by my colleague Jan Jambon: "Electrabel has decided to carry out additional work in order to strengthen the concrete roof of the future Doel 3 bunker. This work takes some time and, as a result, the Doel 3 revision schedule is reduced by a few months. The AFCN is not involved in the planning of the work. Nor does it intervene in the operator's communication as regards the time it takes to perform the necessary work. Timing questions should be addressed to the operator. The latter himself determines the method and speed required to carry out the work. The nuclear safety authority shall independently verify, as appropriate, whether the method used and the final results meet the required safety standards and requirements. This is done continuously." It is very clear, each in its own role, that the way in which the work is planned and carried out is exclusively in the hands of the operator. You can easily understand why, when you learn on 21 September by the REMIT Communication on market transparency – which is normal for a company of this size, listed on the stock exchange to avoid any manipulation of prices on the markets – two plants of just over 1,000 MW will leave the electricity mix for the first part of the winter, in November and, even, will be completely absent until after the winter and may not return in the summer, you are amazed. Let's not do sophisms, let's talk true. You will admit that even if we suspect that work of a certain magnitude takes some time...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u45	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u46	Mr. Nollet, I didn't interrupt you! But the operator has a responsibility on the Belgian plate, in relation to the generation of electricity that it generates on this Belgian plate, and from which it derives profits over the market. It is well known that the way in which work is planned is of fundamental importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u47	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u48	Mr. Nollet, I didn't interrupt you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u49	Mr Nollet, I propose that the minister give the answers. You'll be able to reply later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u50	Understand the government's melody at this announcement on September 21, and not just the government's melody, also Elia's melody. What is the precise timetable for Elia, who is a very important actor? Besides, I would like to make an important parenthesis. I wanted to come with Electrabel and Elia on a commission. I know that it is not entirely academic, because it is the committee, rightly, that decides to invite who it intends to invite when it hears. But I still understand, from the interventions that are made here, that there is an emergency, quite legitimate. The government also feels it because it is working hard to answer the legitimate questions of the population. It would have been interesting for you, the relay of the population, and for the population, via the media, to have immediately the most refined technical data as we speak. As we have recovered capacity, Elia must continue to update the models in order to give precise guidance on the November LOLE (Loss of Load Expectation). I would have found it more effective that Electrabel and Elia could be present now. If you can see them this afternoon or later, but as soon as possible, you may be able to learn the technical information that comes from the competence and professional knowledge of these two stakeholders. Elia is the guarantor of technical security of supply in this country. Electrabel, with the nuclear power plant, produces 54% of the electricity in our country – but no longer now we see it. The answers these speakers could give you would be illuminating. But I can tell you about a calendar of Elias.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u51	Madam Minister, on this point, you agree that it is not the government that organizes the work of Parliament. Parliament organises its own work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u52	I just said it, Mr. President. If you interrupt me, we're not gonna make it. I would like to continue, please, since the government can answer and that is what I am doing. On January 15, 2018, I gave instructions to enter into a 500 MW strategic reserve, after obtaining the approval of the proceeding. This reserve was then made up of the Seraing gas plants for 470 MW and Vilvorde for 255 MW. We quoted nine offers earlier. We can detail all this but I think it's anecdotal because the most important powers are those, as well as the management of demand. The rest, which we can get from the market (and I'll explain how), are far lower powers, a few megawatts. We have the list, you can compare it with the one you have, if you wish. On 19 March 2018, EDF announces the return to the market of Seraing's TGV power plant. The strategic reserve, as you know, is an out-of-market perimeter, in which power plants or production power are maintained that either fails to exist in the market or does not want to exist in the market because it wants to close. We therefore have as a possible strategic reserve, under the conditions I have just mentioned, in January 2018, the Seraing gas plant and the Vilvorde gas plant, judged by CREG to be using affordable and normal prices to be included in the reserve, while the operators of these plants had announced their closure. From January 15, 2018 to March 19, 2018, you see how things can change quickly. EDF announces the return to the market of the Seraing TGV plant for 470 MW. This plant is therefore leaving the strategic reserve, which is becoming increasingly impoverished. At the same time, the market was not getting poorer, production capacity on Belgian soil was not getting poorer. On the contrary, we gain from it because the strategic reserve has a cost to the consumer, whereas when a power plant is in the market, it is the law of supply and demand that plays, and so we can expect a lower price. On 17 August 2018, Elia gives an opinion on the basis of up to date information and with a margin of 1000 MW of a necessary strategic reserve volume of 0 MW, the TGV power station in Seraing having meanwhile returned to the market, as I told you. On August 29, 2018, I act that the strategic reserve for winter 2018-2019 on Elia's forecasts and calculations will be 0 MW. On August 31, 2018, two days later, ENGIE announces an additional deadline for the return of Doel 1 and Doel 2 to the market until mid- or end of December 2018. Elia recalculates and says that it is not this departure or, in any case, this non-arrival that was planned before the winter, which changes the calculations to strategic reserve. This is quite normal because, in the meantime, in the reserved market outside the liberalised market, there is only one possibility or two that are Vilvorde or demand management. On September 21, 2018 – we turn around this date with a very violent preview – ENGIE announces a deadline for the return to the Tihange 2 and 3 market until March and June 2019. On the same day, September 21, 2018, I obviously make direct contact with Elia, who learned the news like me, and with ENGIE, who projected this news. On September 24, 2018, a meeting was held between Elia and ENGIE to take stock. The result is a press release that you mentioned earlier. If I'm not mistaken, today is September 26, 2018. Between 24 and 26 September, the work we have done today shows that, under the pressure exerted by the government on the dominant operator in the Belgian electricity landscape, the operator, who also has to balance his portfolio vis-à-vis his customers, was able to contract in principle – we have to finalize the details – in the market with the Vilvorde power plant – I had the news last night – for 250 MW. The operator also has a very strong exchange with the demand management offerers who can work in the market, precisely since your Parliament passed the bill that I brought on flexibility and storage. This allows the management of demand to work in the market. The 250 MW offer is therefore added to Vilvorde to make 450 MW. On the other hand, the operator can push its traditional thermal fleet outside of nuclear power at full power to gain another 100 MW, which is 550 MW. Within the company Electrabel, the operator can optimise the fleet which he owns abroad in connection with Belgium, of course, but also in the territory of the plants which he owns in Belgium and thus be helped to the tune of 200 MW of additional generation capacity. This is precisely what ENGIE's boss sent me a written confirmation yesterday and what we are working on to ensure that this capacity is in addition to the current capacity you know. We will continue as there are still megawatts in the market, there is still an opportunity to get up to the last megawatt available in this territory. At this moment, I would like to stress one element that was mentioned earlier by several speakers but first by Mr Wollants. I understand, of course, that in the time when we are standing, that is, in this mandate, you have in front of you the government that you know and I, in front of me, the Parliament that I know, but unfortunately things are not that simple. The country's energy policy has a long history. This story is not the government or the Parliament of today who are alone accountants and who could change the course with a magic wand. The truth is that our traditional energy park has, it seems to me, probably been neglected – and it is everyone's fault – by the operators and successive governments, while we have probably launched ourselves in a somewhat risky, peremptory or presumptuous way, in two fundamental elements, namely to develop almost 3 GW of wind energy and almost 4 GW of photovoltaic with the financial bubbles we know in this country, without paying more attention to the conventional production park which, unlike the renewable one, is pilotable. The renewable has its full value, the question is not there. Nevertheless, it is expensive and, in addition, it has a flaw, that it is not pilotable. From the moment you cannot control a production capacity, you automatically weaken your energy system. That's what we call the energy transition. This is obviously something that all countries are facing. It's going to cost and it's already costing. It is for this reason, too, that the markets have begun to ignite outside the Belgian case, as I will explain shortly afterwards. Indeed, in Belgium and elsewhere – as we saw in France last year – there is a disinvestment on the classical production parks, which must now, once and for all, be studied and amended. We continue to need classical productions. For this reason, the government established an energy pact and wanted to join - the second fundamental aspect of the country's history - in the framework of the 2003 law adopted at the time of the Verhofstadt government to give guarantees to its Ecolo component. It had decided, in a visionary way, to leave nuclear power in 2025, but without in any way providing for a plan to accompany it from that moment on. As a result, for 11 years, thus until 2014, no accompanying plan has been drawn up to implement the nuclear exit. Today, we are the first government to tackle this task, to conclude the Energy Pact, to launch - I believed in it from the beginning and I say it for the last two years - a mechanism for paying capacity which, of course, has not yet been voted on. Don't blame me for the past, Madame Lalieux; you were also there, O how many! I am submitting this mechanism to the European Commission. As this is a support measure, it must examine our project to tell us whether or not it is in compliance with competition rules. I have had the elegance of not recalling this in my remarks, but I will point it out: I felt it was essential that I go to the European Commissioner in person to inform her that we need a Commission decision quickly in order to move forward. Such a signal had already generated the return of gas-fired power plants to the market. The latter sector has seen that our energy pact will support, in our production fleet, the gas-fired power plants that we still need. To attract investors, Ms. Lalieux, this is not done with a slamming of fingers or by simply expressing the will. In order to do so, a mechanism to pay for capacity is necessary. I assume that with you, we will be able to bring it up as quickly as possible in order to be able - and it is the first government to do so - to get out of nuclear power in 2025, as provided for in the law and as this government has committed itself to it. This is the first thing that I wanted to develop, once and for all, having exercised this function and having killed myself quite often, whenever it has been said, to criticize and not finally see the reality of our production park. Nuclear energy must invest in maintenance and safety, it is natural. This is what the law requires, as required by AFCN, in complete independence, but nuclear producers must also take into account their dominant presence in the market and organise the planning of their work, in such a way that the security of supply in that country is guaranteed. That is the point of the operator's responsibility. As far as the solutions I have just mentioned are concerned, interconnection must be added. This government has also made concrete efforts to strengthen the interconnection with neighbouring countries, as we have an additional 500 MW of physical interconnection capacity, thanks to this government. This government has also made sure to negotiate intelligently - which is not the case at all levels of power! Let us remember the recent past and the financial photovoltaic bubbles in the north and south of this country. All this money from consumers for the development of renewable energy by forgetting the traditional production fleet. All that money is gone! With this money, we could also have done something else, which has not been done. The development of renewables by this government is to have been able to carry out a negotiation that saves citizens €3.9 billion over 20 years for parks that will settle in the North Sea by 2020. This government is also launching, for the end of the legislature, a trending system in order to double the capacity in the North Sea to mount it, by offshore renewable, to 4 GW and to ensure that this entire 4 GW fleet represents, intermittance included, the production capacity of two nuclear power plants. It is this government that has accomplished this. So I'm back to the interconnections. Of course, there is the physical limit, I have just mentioned, as well as the government's work in this regard. There is also the limit to the sovereignty of the States around us, which, too, sometimes need at the same time a greater capacity than they can therefore pass on to us. Since this is my role - I have been assuming my responsibilities from the beginning, from one end to the other - I have contacted the German Minister Peter Altmaier, the French Secretary of State Sébastien Lecornu, and the Dutch Minister Eric Wiebes, to find out what was the situation with regard to their forecast calculations in relation to their national production fleet in the run-up to winter and to tell them myself, on behalf of the government, what the Belgian situation was. The German minister immediately told me that for them, there was no problem, that we were going to speed up the planned signature of the MoU (memorandum of understanding) which will take place in Berlin or Brussels, very quickly, that our teams are working together and that our TSO (transmission system operators) will work together to see what is happening. As you know, German electricity is currently reaching us through the French and Dutch interconnections, since we do not yet have direct interconnection with Germany. This will be the case at the end of 2019: another achievement of this government. We will have 1,000 MW live from Germany. The Dutch minister told me that there is no problem, that they have the necessary capacity and that they can guarantee reliable interconnection in terms of capacity. As noted by one speaker, the French Secretary of State told me that they have not yet finalized their winter plan, because they have problems with the construction of a nuclear power plant and that their production fleet experienced some difficulties last winter. But they will finalize this quickly and our TSOs, who are in contact can continue the work. He added that the French Government, which has a Commissioner at ENGIE, has asked ENGIE to ensure that ENGIE Electrabel responds to any request made by the Belgian Government in the current framework, provided that this is possible in practice. That is the concrete result of our work to date. We got to work as soon as the announcement was made last Friday. We'll continue. Today is 26 September. We still have many hours and days before November 1 to continue to aggregate additional megawatts and to continue to develop solutions. It is for this reason that I wanted to form a task force which will meet this afternoon and which includes ENGIE Electrabel, CREG and Elia, representatives of the Prime Minister's office and representatives of my cabinet. The aim is to be in constant contact with the nuclear fleet this time and to examine whether interviews can be organised differently over time, since it is ENGIE's responsibility, so that, if possible, more capacity can be recovered from ENGIE's production fleet. That is the case for the current situation! Now, as far as prices are concerned, first of all, I would like to highlight one point. Everyone was able to read the speech in Mr. Van den Bosch, who explains, in a very factual way, that prices have started to rise in Europe due to the rise in gas prices, due to the increase in coal prices, due to the increase in the ETS market of the tonne of CO2 from EUR 5 to EUR 20. This is the sign of the energy transition that we must take into account in order for both administrations and the private sector (citizens or companies) to move resolutely towards energy efficiency and sobriety. It's a first thing. It is an effect of the time in which we live. The second thing is that, of course, the stress brought to the concrete situation of our production fleet by the dominant operator, the comments and concerns, which are also legitimate in this respect, do not help in a liberalised market context. Of course, buyers in advance - because all those who buy electricity buy it if possible in advance to benefit from the lowest and most stable prices - have been well aware for some time of the price increase in the markets. For prices, some of you already have an in-depth reflection. I therefore hope to have your support in this area. We are always busy studying legally, with the firm that works with us in the context of the public contract concluded at the start of the Energy DG for this legislature in the matters assigned to me, the possibility of concretizing this responsibility and of ensuring that the additional costs identified as being related to this responsibility may be borne by the author because of the disturbance in the markets leading to the significant increase in electricity prices. As far as VAT is concerned - Mrs Lalieux was one of the first to talk about it - I have always said that I am open to it. However, I cannot certify that this request, which I have always relayed to the government, has been heard. I am not alone in the government and I know, for having lived in plenary last week, that a question has been asked to the minister responsible, who must, I suppose, make some calculations. I'm told it wasn't hot. I didn't hear his answer. I'll put the cover back on. Mrs Lalieux, if we want to speak true, the previous government did, because it was also a beautiful image, although the concrete result...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u53	Electricity for citizens, ma'am!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u54	Of course, Mrs Lalieux, but you know very well that as the elections approach, this type of decision is not neutral!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u55	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u56	I totally agree with what you're saying. Don't worry: I'll put the cover back, as I said! It is clear that in the present situation - in view of the transition organised throughout Europe, therefore also in Belgium - it will be necessary to compensate the most and the least. Mr President, I would like to conclude. I would like to say to this committee and, through it, to the people that the government is taking the situation very seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u57	Really?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u58	I have to say that because I hear you sometimes say that the government would work in an unpredictable way, that it would not take things seriously, that it would not care about the situation of citizens and the cost of modern comfort – electricity and gas generation, mobility, etc. Well! Once and for all, I would like to say that, from the outset, this government has been concerned about the economy of this country and, in particular, about the energy needed by all citizens and the cost to them. In this context of crisis, he works as one man to win all the megawatts we can get, so that the light and heating that we have today will continue to be obtained, even after the passage of winter weather. We are fighting for it to be so! We work every day, every hour, to do so! You can be sure that I devote a very active part to it. I am fighting like a lioness - as I have done since the beginning - so that we can implement the government agreement - that is, get out of nuclear power with a robust production system - and then, at all times, provide our fellow citizens with the energy they need at an affordable price.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u59	Thank you very much for your answers, Minister. As Parliament has the last word, I turn to the various speakers. I ask that each one be limited to two minutes in his reply. We'll have to be disciplined.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u60	Madam Minister, four years ago you told us that this is going to work, that you are working, that the park is more uncertain than ever, that security of supply is uncertain, but above all, that the price of electricity for households and businesses is constantly increasing. I want to remind you of a few facts. From 2014 to 2015, the bill increased by 12% due to VAT, we talked about it. In 2016, it increased by 28%. In 2017, it increased by 8%. These are figures from the Price Observatory. You removed the safety net, the price freeze and you increased the VAT. A 712 million hold-up! And I did not hear you firmly commit yourself to making the operators you despise pay but that you strengthened with the extension of the power plants; you did not commit that the citizen would not pay for this chaotic and catastrophic management of your energy policy. Apart from VAT, you know that there is an additional cost. You're in the election campaign, Mrs Marghem, are you going to dare tell the citizens that they won't pay anything more? I wonder! Madam Minister, the bill is on the table, we can put it on the agenda next week and the VAT reduction will take place on 1 October if you decide and if you really tell us the truth here, Madam Minister. This government is always talking about 'wage disability', but when we see the energy cost for our companies, we could talk about 'energy disability' and you are the first and only one responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u61	Mr President, Minister, you have talked a long time about the reasons why we are in the current situation. There is no point in discussing this for hours. Is the cause of the core exit that has ever been approved without a plan of approach? Is the cause of ENGIE? None of that matters now. Above all, we want solutions to ensure that the lamp stays on. What have we learned from your exhibition? We now know where the 750 megawatts are from. That is a first step, but that is not enough. It is true that the present government has already realised some things, which we also support. The interconnection has been increased and the offshore has been greatly increased. However, the big question remains whether they will be effective enough for the coming months. You are combative and declare to fight for every megawatt and every megawatt. We also expect you to do so in your capacity as the Minister responsible and to fight for every megawatt. After all, we absolutely want the lamp to stay on. We will certainly follow up on the file. I wish you every success in your fight. We hope that we will soon receive feedback on the basis of further figures. We hope that the matter will certainly be followed up and that we will receive feedback here in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u62	Madam Minister, who could believe, other than you, on September 21, that ENGIE Electrabel would have repaired Tihange 3, on September 31? They had already postponed the date four times. Typically, they postpone it 15 to 20 days before the deadline. The first deadline was May 14, then it was June 30, then September 30, and today is March 1, 2019. It is because you are blinded by ENGIE Electrabel, that you trust them blindly, that we find ourselves in the wall today. It was because you believed their official communications that you did not anticipate today. I asked Minister Jambon every month. And his answers, including in early September, already said that they would not be able to meet the 31 September deadline. It is here that I say that there is a problem in your management and your ability to anticipate. And if no one in your office told you, there's a problem in your office! And if no one told you in your administration, there's a problem in your administration! Yes, the market information mechanism is problematic. It's not going to happen that ENGIE Electrabel is playing with the market by announcing dates that he knows he won't be able to keep. I've been saying it for two years. It has been two years since I asked that this system be changed and that we involve the CREG and eventually Elia to validate the figures, but also the Federal Nuclear Control Agency to confirm the feasibility or not. This federal government never wanted to do this because it considers Electrabel right. And today, according to Electrabel, when you wake up on September 21, when you look at the market, you say, "There's a problem!" But if you had a little bit of judgment, if you had anticipated a bit, if you had followed the news a little bit and what is said by the media, you would have seen that no one believed Electrabel in a position to revive Tihange 3 on September 31. No one! When this morning, Mr Wollants says in the newspaper Le Soir that "we now have the certainty that we can limit the crisis, that it will not go beyond November", I reply to Mr Wollants: "You are unwise! Look at the situation of Doel 1 and Doel 2! Are you sure that they will be relaunched on December 10 for both and December 31 for the other? Are you sure Tihange 3 will be relaunched on May 31st? Will Tihange 3, with his problem of reinforcements, not simply have to close? Are you sure that in other power plants, Doel 4 and Tihange 2, we're not going to discover another problem?"
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u63	The word of the end, Mr. Nollet!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u64	Say, as you do, Mr. Wollants, that we can go out... (...) November is not the worst month. In the South of France, we can still make it. But with the timetable announced today by ENGIE Electrabel, there is no guarantee that in January and February there will be no more serious problems. I invite you, Madam Minister, to stop believing them. Look at the schedule and ask the federal agency if the dates are credible! Ask CREG to validate the fact that there has been no distortion on the market with Electrobel's ads! These deadlines are untenable! On a systematic basis, ENGIE postpones them 15 days in advance. It always goes in the same direction! Never, for four years, did you want to change that. This is your political problem and your political responsibility in management! ENGIE obviously has a huge responsibility. Yours is not to have changed this system that deceives the market and makes us find ourselves facing the wall if we blindly trust, as you do, on the contrary of environmentalists, ENGIE Electrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u65	Madam Secretary, your answer was all the way back to Marghem. I believe that there is not only annoyance among the members of the opposition, because you come up with so few answers. In fact, colleagues see you more at work as a reporter of chaos than as a minister of solutions. You are repeating that the opposition apparently has the impression that you are not seriously concerned with the file. But, Madam Minister, that is not an impression; that is, unfortunately, the reality. You are avoiding our question, and that is why I will put it to Minister Jambon this afternoon. Was the problem of concrete rot already known at the time you decided not to create a strategic reserve? I will have to ask Minister Jambon, the Minister responsible for nuclear safety, a topical question about this later. After all, major mistakes have been made and it must be clear who made those mistakes. It must be clear which consultations took place or not. What happened is actually irresponsible. At that time you were apparently on an uninhabited island, because if you had been in Belgium, read the newspapers and followed Parliament, you would have been perfectly aware of the problem of concrete rot. That problem didn't arise yesterday. I would like to invite you, together with the other colleagues, to look beyond the month of November. I invite you not to stop at the first, most urgent problem of the month of November but to look further at the coming winter. After all, many problems with nuclear power stations have been announced. Your analysis of the energy landscape and your ambitions for energy costs remain completely wrong. You mentioned the problems of renewable energy. You pointed out that the major problem of renewable energy is that it has become unpredictable. Mrs Marghem, today we are not faced with the unpredictability of renewable energy; we are faced with the predictability that old nuclear power plants are constantly stationary. What you tell over and over again, the analyses you make, your suggestions for solutions, create uncertainty in the energy landscape. We see a minister saying he wants to implement the Energy Pact, but he is actually trying to sabotage that Energy Pact in everything she does. It's Marghem's big nuclear alliance and the N-VA that's gonna get us into trouble. Actually, you don't want to realize the core exit. All you're doing is sabotaging the core exit, and that's how you're wallowing our country in trouble until it gets stuck. You have a huge responsibility for that. The alliance of the N-VA and Marghem, across the language line, with the French of ENGIE and of Electrabel, is unbelievable. You and your party, Mr Wollants, have an incredible responsibility. It is the N-VA, the Flemish party par excellence, that sabotages the energy future. We could take them into Flemish hands, but you spend them on Paris and France, every time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u66	As usual, you have not answered the very clear questions. Moreover, you dare to conclude that you take the situation very seriously. I'd like to believe that, but you add that you've been providenient. You're not foreseeable at all. The situation today is the result of your unforeseenness. Do you know when problems of concrete rot were identified for the first time? That was already in 2012 and it was warned in 2010. Eventually, it's a chronicle of an announced death. Each time a plant in repair failed again. We have asked you several times to examine the plants currently affected by concrete rot. You didn't do that. You just waited. We had to find out in June and September 2018 that there was another problem. So you're not foreseeable at all. I would also ask you not only to look at November. What will happen in January if Objective 1 and Objective 2 do not work again? That opportunity is real. We need to keep looking. With regard to prices, you have given a full explanation of market forces. We all know that. The reality is that we all paid the nuclear power stations together with our invoices. We wrote it off together. Nuclear interest rates have fallen so that repairs can be carried out because you have extended the life of two plants. And still his prices will only rise. That's your responsibility. You did not have an energy policy. Your Energy Pact, which has not yet been definitively concluded, is not in place. The transition to much-needed alternatives has not happened. That's your crushing responsibility. Electrabel has made mistakes, but you are the politically responsible. You're not foreseeable at all. I only have two minutes, but I could explain for an hour how it is that we are where we are now. It's your government's responsibility, with the N-VA in the lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u67	Madam Minister, I have listened carefully to you. At the end of your presentation, in which you presented the options you will follow, you said: "The concrete result of our work is this." For my part, I note that the tangible result of your work for the past four years is the current situation, which results in an imbroglio in terms of the supply of electricity, the risk of shortages given the months that will follow. We are talking about November, but we do not know what will happen next. I repeat the content of my speech: your work is characterized by a lack of anticipation. We know the result of your total and blind confidence in the operator ENGIE, who did not find in front of him a strong political power to try to regulate what should be. Similarly, the administration of Energy could be consolidated. Minister, you don't give us any numbers and you don't shut your mouth. I hope you have some data. We've been talking about it for a week, but you don't let us know. I find it very frustrating that you do not support your arguments. Finally, the consumer – whether residential or industrial – is not reassured as to the amount of his bill. The framework is not stable in terms of energy prices. Then you'll be surprised that no one wants to invest in this sector in Belgium yet! Let's say we wouldn't do that unless we did! It is necessary to be able to further stabilise what is waiting for operators and consumers. Minister, I am waiting for you to provide us with specific answers to specific questions and to be supported by the figures that you have, but you do not want to send us. It's unbearable! We are sitting here on a parliamentary committee. Despite all my respect for the press, I had the impression, while listening to your presentation, of attending a second press conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u68	Madam Minister, it is quite clear: you have nothing to say to ENGIE Electrabel! Throughout your presentation, you have even been obliged to call your French colleague to order him to tell them that they must provide us with help. They don't even answer you directly anymore. You have to go through other countries. This is a rather lamentable observation! This is the game that Electrabel is playing today. It's a bit like the arson firefighter: Electrabel sets the fire, doesn't guarantee our supply, and then says he's ready to come and turn it off, but you have to give him money! It is a madness to be so dependent on a private actor who disorganizes our energy supply himself and then puts conditions in search of possible solutions. Colleagues, where are we going? The minister – and of course, she goes the furthest because she is a liberal minister! – Balances us with an inaccuracy by saying: "The law of supply and demand will bring down prices." But if there is something that we have all been able to observe, it is that the law of supply and demand has not at all reduced prices! Why? Because this supposedly organised competition at European level leads, in fact, to an even more monopolistic concentration in this multinational company which controls almost all of our energy system. With groups like ENGIE Electrabel, 1.4 billion profits in 2017! The question that arises, ladies and gentlemen, is that of the impotence of politics, well-organized by a party like the MR, which is completely subject to this dogma. What steps will we take to regain control of such an important sector? That's the whole question. Indeed, as a PTB, we are asking the question of the socialization of this sector. Just as the banking sector is not able to ensure the liquidity and financing of the various investments, here in Belgium since 2008, we do have a problem at energy level, where we are completely dependent on a board of directors that has more power over our everyday lives than the entire government! That's the problem, colleagues. There's an emergency! In the short term, Madam Minister, in terms of prices, it is unacceptable for consumers to pay and even increase Electrabel's profits, since the famous law of supply and demand means that, in the face of a distortion of the market, prices are blazing. So Electrabel's gonna make money. The players too, and the State too, on an increase in VAT. On that side, Madam Minister, I heard you punching on the table saying, "We want a 6% VAT!" You find it scandalous, as we do, that your colleagues do not agree with this. It is an important position taken by the MR here today that, in the short term, we want VAT at the rate of 6%, in contradiction to Mr. Van Overtveldt, whom I questioned last week and who said, "No question!" Today, there are very serious tensions within the government over this 6% VAT. I hope that in the next four to five days, the MR will continue to punch on the table to get it. We challenge you. Mr. Van Overtveldt disagrees with the position of the MR – and the Prime Minister, because I assume that you also speak on his behalf when you say you want to reduce VAT to 6%. We look forward to seeing Mr back. Van Overtveldt on this issue in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u69	Mr President, Minister, I would like to touch briefly on three points. Firstly, Mr Calvo, Mr Nollet, Objective 1 and Tihange 1 would not have been able to come back again by the end of 2018 if they had not been renewed on your advice. If they were completely closed, they would indeed not be able to produce energy. I'm sure you can now. That is, of course, what this is about, namely capacity that we need. Mr Calvo, a second aspect is the following. Here you try to play the game "Flemish flow in Flemish hands." It's about the first time you don't gag at the word "Flemish." However, look at the gas plants. Thirty-six gas plants in our country are in French hands, divided into four different companies. Total, EDF, ENGIE and Lampiris are involved. Until recently, the T-Power plant in Tessenderlo was owned by a Japanese firm. The company in Vilvoorde to which we now wish to appeal is in Bulgarian hands. Where did the two new gas plants, offered as part of Wathelet's call, come from? They came from the Swiss in Dilsen-Stokkem and from the Dutch in Wallonia. That's what it's about. A second point is the following. Madam Secretary, you mentioned that Elia and Electrabel were very anxious to come to the committee. However, it was not very clear to me why they did not come to the committee. Mr President, I did notice that at that moment you immediately set up your micro and became nervous. I actually want to know why they are not here, as many Members have called for a text and explanation here. Thirdly, Madam Minister, you have indicated that you will do everything in your power to ensure that the light remains on. However, it must be more than that. In any case, we must ensure that the light stays on. Whatever happens, the light must be guaranteed to stay on. Even if everyone has done their utmost in this area, if we do not do so, it is not enough for us. The light must remain on and everyone must get power.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u70	Mr President, Mr Wollants has already said that the decision to keep Tihange 1 and Objectives 1 and 2 open is very useful to us now. The blackbird is now being played a lot towards each other. During the Di Rupo administration Tihange 1 was kept open, during the Michel administration his Objectives 1 and 2 were kept open. These are two decisions that have been taken by all parties. Reference is also made to each other in relation to costs and rising prices. Green certificates have risen sharply in Flanders under a socialist minister. They have butter on their heads there. Now the VAT increase is being seized by the same party as the cause of the cost increase. There is always pointing to each other, the blackbird is played to each other, also from ENGIE-Electrabel to Elia. People don't have a message about that. In particular, they expect their invoice to be looked at, but certainly also the security of supply. We must put all our hands on deck for that. We must also look beyond November. We cannot have this discussion over and over again. I have only recently come back to Parliament, but when I left a few years ago, that discussion was already ongoing. It would be better if we could find a definitive solution in the long term, so that there is no further panic in every case, in the markets and among the inhabitants of Belgium. That is why I call for a bit of unanimity on this market. I hope that we will all be able to hear these players and that the noses will be a bit more in the same direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u71	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, on the facts, you have not reassured us. As regards the communication between the different supervisory authorities in relation to your action, we do not know any more, because you did not reply precisely as to the dates of communication of information from one authority to another, in particular from the Electrabel Group to the control agency. You didn't give us the exact information. I continue to believe that, whatever the responsibilities of Electrabel and ENGIE, there is a responsibility within the decision-making bodies of the government and the supervisory bodies. Secondly, today there is only one certainty. And again: it's relative. I heard your count: 700 MW are mobilizable, with maybe an additional 250 MW, which are more random. We will verify that in fact. So 750 MW compared to a possible need of at least 3 850 MW, if we are faced with a really difficult month of November. You're telling us you're under negotiation. We await the outcome of your negotiation. We'll check it out. Thirdly, you tell us that it is Electrabel who will have to pay the difference in the consumer's bill. Good luck! We will have to show another energy, if you will allow me this word, than the one that you have shown to this group so far. I also ask you - I like the rigor - to outline a legal way to compel this producer – who, in any case, will not be the producer of the megawatts that we lack, since its capacity is to the maximum – to assume the difference in the energy cost compared to other suppliers. You didn't. I would like to have the legal demonstration of how you will achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation. They were very clear and very precise. As you said, in two days, most of the solutions have been found and there is still a month to fine-tune all this. We see that the situation is under control, and we assure you, Madam Minister, of our support in your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u73	This concludes our current affairs debate. We still have to deal with the question of the order of business. The groups were unanimous in continuing the debate with external speakers. The first point that needs to be agreed is the institutions that we want to hear. I have heard five proposals. We could receive AFCN in a second phase. In any case, a consensus had been reached to host at the same time the Plan Bureau, Elia, Electrabel and CREG. Does the Commission agree that these four bodies should be heard? Then when can we do it? Some were talking about today. As far as the plenary meeting is concerned, it is for the Conference of Presidents to decide whether hearings are possible this afternoon. However, the secretariat has been in contact all morning. Electrabel replied that he could not come today. The Planning Office would only be available until 4.30 p.m. The other two bodies are available. We can also opt for Friday, Monday or next Tuesday. I rely on the wisdom of the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u74	Mr President, we could stick to Tuesday morning, since this is in principle the day our committee meets.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-26-54-commissie-ic967x.u75	This is no problem to me, since it is the usual day of our meetings. We can even devote the day, if necessary. If you agree, we will contact the four instances to receive them on Tuesday, October 2 at 10 a.m. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this interesting debate.
