ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u2	We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate to sit in replacement of Mr Stéphane Crusnière, who resigned on October 3, 2018. We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mr Stéphane Crusnière, who resigned on 3 October 2018. The alternate to replace him is Mr Michel Corthouts, the first alternate in the electoral district of Brabant Wallon. The successor who will replace him is Michel Corthouts, the first successor to the Walloon-Brabant constituency. The powers of Mr. Michel Corthouts were validated in our meeting on 19 June 2014. The credentials of Mr Michel Corthouts were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te leven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mr. Michel Corthouts to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Michel Corthouts to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u3	Mr. Michel Corthouts will be a member of the French linguistic group. Mr Michel Corthouts will be part of the French language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, like many Belgian citizens, I would like to know where we stand at the risk of shortages. You weren't in Parliament this week. We had a rather special committee meeting there, at which we tried to understand the situation. We saw an incredible ping-pong game, where the minister said she relied on Elia's numbers, Elia said she relied on Electrabel's numbers and where Electrabel did what she wanted. If only to identify exactly the situation is already a problem. This is my first question: what is the current state of the supply-demand deficit? Some talk about 700 to 900 megawatts. However, we know that Elia had some models returned. My second question, Prime Minister, is about the bill. Yesterday, your Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, in answer to one of my questions, rightly pointed to Electrabel's responsibility in the current disaster: "under-evaluation of the problem" and "lack of investment in interviews", these are the Minister of the Interior's own terms. He clearly pointed out the operator's responsibility, ENGIE Electrabel. It would not be right for citizens or SMEs to pay for the error made by Electrabel. I therefore hope, Prime Minister, that you will tell us here what mechanism you are going to put in place to ensure that the only person responsible for this part of the increase is the one that contributes, not the citizen via his energy bill. I expect very clear comments from you, so that, after removing the security mechanisms that existed in this area, after removing the strategic reserve, you would say that you may have made mistakes, but that you will guarantee that the citizen will not pay for ENGIE Electrabel's mistakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not dwell on the fiasco of your energy policy or on its consequences. What needs our attention today is the way in which you will meet the expectations of our fellow citizens, who do not understand how to see their electricity bill fly away because of the misgivings of some members of your government. Prime Minister, as far as the figures are concerned, we are talking about gas/electrical energy bills that could be up to 400 euros extra. As far as electricity is concerned, we are talking about 110 euros more. Do you realize, Prime Minister, that in real life these sums for people and households are insurmountable and, not only at the end of the month, but at the beginning of the month because from the beginning of the month for our fellow citizens, it is difficult? Prime Minister, you have the power to immediately reduce the electricity bill. Will you have the will? We'll know soon. How could you do that? It's very simple, Prime Minister! By means of a royal decree that will allow you to immediately reduce the VAT on electricity. And if I ask you, it's because there's a dissonance in your government today. On 26 September, Ms Marghem, replying to Ms Lalieux, stated that she was open to the question of a reduction in the rate of VAT on electricity. It took 48 hours for Finance Minister N-VA to deny it! Well, Prime Minister, today it is up to you to answer us and tell us how you intend to act to lower the electricity bill of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, energy poverty in our country is taking on alarming proportions. It is your government that raised VAT from 6% to 21% at the beginning of this legislature. The result is that people today, although they consume less, have to pay more. Today there are already 100 000 people with a pay-off plan to pay their electricity bill. The energy shortage expected for this winter is likely to result in a further rise in prices. It is clear to us, Prime Minister, that the citizens cannot and must not take the fall for this! If there is an energy shortage, that is the responsibility of this government. There is absolutely no way that people's prices will rise again. For sp.a, energy is not a luxury product to which 21 % VAT has to be paid. We are in favour of a reduction in the VAT rate to 6%. I was pleased when the Energy Minister opened the door to a reduction in the VAT rate a few weeks ago, but yesterday the Finance Minister came to tell us that that door remains closed for him. Prime Minister, what is the position of this government? Will you reduce the VAT on electricity to 6% or will you just keep watching as electricity prices rise again, while people are not even sure if they will get electricity at all. What's your answer to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, energy is becoming priceless. People will have to pay 150 euros more, i.e. a 30% increase in prices. How can such high prices be paid when we know that there is so much energy poverty? A lot of government parties don't mind. I read what Bart De Wever said on 10 January 2016 in the broadcast On the subject: "Cheap energy prices will no longer be on the agenda in this 21st century; that is actually a good thing." A good thing, dear N-VAs! Pay 150 euros more, do you think that's a good thing? That's easy for you. With your high wages, you can handle it. But think of all the other Flemings in Belgium, who earn 1 200 euros, and who will also have to pay 150 euros more! I would also like to quote Mr Wollants, last week in this House: 'There is no such increase in energy bills'. How dare you say that, Mr Wollants, when consumers have to pay EUR 150 more? That's too easy. Strange politicians don't know what that means.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u8	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u9	I know you don't like that, but did you say that or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u10	Mr Hedebouw, please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u11	I will continue my speech, Mr President, but I understand that the members of the N-VA are getting a little nervous. It is easy to make such statements in television programmes, but here it is more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u12	Mr Hedebouw, continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u13	Prime Minister, we need to take urgent action. In the state budget, with this price increase, you will earn hundreds of millions of euros in VAT. I ask you to use them to reduce VAT from 21 % to 6 %. Since 2008, the PTB has collected 225,000 signatures to claim this 6% reduction. That is to say, if the population supports this proposal! Last week, Mrs Marghem felt that such a reduction would not be excluded. "Why not," she said. You feel the pressure of the minister and you must give in! A member of the MR said, "Why not"! Prime Minister, can you say today that you agree with Mrs Marghem? Can you confirm that under popular pressure, you will reduce this VAT from 21 % to 6 %? We are tired of paying as much VAT on electricity as on caviar and champagne in Belgium! I'm listening to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u14	Mr Wollants asked for the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u15	Mr Hedebouw, quoting half sentences and half truths will not get you out of here. Let's be honest. What did it say in that first sentence? The tax shift ensures that for an average wage every month more than 100 euros are added to the wage bag. You say that VAT should fall from 21% to 6%, but that difference will then be adjusted from the budget. That difference means that we have to save on other things or that everyone pays it back through the tax bill. That's the truth. That is the reality. You want to know him, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u16	Mr Calvo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u17	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u18	You'll get a reply, Mr. Hedebouw. Mr Calvo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u19	Mr President, there is a bit of chaos in Parliament but a lot of chaos in our energy market. In order to maintain order in Parliament, we need a good President and a strong Prime Minister is needed to restore chaos in the energy market. In this sense, Prime Minister, I am pleased that you have drawn the questions to you today. However, I would like to ask you to draw this dossier back to you and put an end to the chaos. After all, the chaos of the last few days is costing our citizens and businesses a great deal of money. It is seen that key players, players who basically have to provide peace and security and who have to provide electricity to our citizens, continue to create chaos. Elia says "A," "Engie says "B." The FANC points to ENGIE, ENGIE points to the FANC. It's total chaos. We do not even agree on how much we are lacking at the moment. That was the spectacle that we were able to see here in Parliament this week. So my first point, Prime Minister, is that you should take this into your hands. You must quickly clarify what additional measures you will take with your government to light the lamp. After all, in a prosperous country like ours, the lamp must always be lit. If we have problems in this area today, it is because the Minister and the N-VA had a blindly naive faith in old nuclear power stations that are abandoning us more and more. Mr Prime Minister, my second point, of course, concerns the invoice. The Minister has launched a balloon around the reduction of VAT. Another balloon was a claim against ENGIE. I would ask you to make that claim very clear. ENGIE has a huge responsibility. They must bear that responsibility, they must pay the price, not our citizens and businesses. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, to make it very clear whether or not that claim will be made. For us, it cannot be the intention for our citizens and businesses to face even higher invoices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, where are we finally on the supply of electricity, and more specifically, for the month of November and the following months? That is the question that all citizens of this country are asking themselves. The Belgian electricity generation and transmission system has this characteristic of being entirely in the hands of private actors, namely ENGIE and Elia. That is the reality. We may regret that, but that is the case. Such a configuration implies that the general interest is guaranteed by a determined and vigilant political power. That was your government's role. And when you hear your minister say that ENGIE Electrabel, a French industrial giant, betrayed his confidence, when you hear Elia's CEO say that his only responsibility is to provide reports on which the minister is free to base her policy or not, you can only question yourself about the blind trust you make in these actors. The situation we are experiencing today was hanging on our noses. It was sufficient to consult the plant maintenance plan and Elia's report on the strategic reserve to find out. Your minister can continue to spread to all market players, but it would be more beneficial for all Belgian consumers if you were to question yourself and correct your own shortcomings. She explained to us, at the committee on 26 September, how you planned to look, one by one, for each megawatt missing. Nevertheless, I would like to know, Prime Minister, your long-term agenda on this subject. What lessons have you learned from this episode? On the other hand, consumers, whether they are households or businesses, will see their bills increase. The CREG confirmed it to us this week. As far as VAT is concerned, your Minister for Energy has said that he is open to a reduction in VAT. Indeed, the bill weighs heavily and reduces the possibility of investing in energy savings. Prime Minister, we need an arbitrator in this case. Now, you're supposed to arbitrate the government's decisions. What is the government's proposal for VAT? Your answer to this question is expected by Belgian citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u21	Prime Minister, I understand that you are answering the question on VAT because there are different voices on this issue in the government. I had addressed my question to Minister Marghem. It was about the shortage. I see you're answering it. I'm glad you're answering, but what do I get from it? Do you no longer trust Minister Marghem, who tells anything in committee or in plenary? Is the lack of confidence so developed that you felt compelled to respond to its place?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u22	Mr Van Hees, you know very well that the government is one and indivisible. The Prime Minister will give the answer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u23	This has never been less topical! I understand your caution, Prime Minister. Minister Marghem's responsibility is blatant, to the point that a newspaper headlines: "Is there still a pilot in the plane in terms of energy in this country?" Indeed, according to the minister, one day everything is fine, and another day, it is the global catastrophe and it falls from the clouds, to take up its words. Now we don't know very well. Radio Marghem no longer emits, except when it comes to criticizing Electrabel, which is quite incredible. Indeed, for the past four years, it can be said that Marghem is a subsidiary of Electrabel so the minister behaves as a towel holder of this multinational. But all of a sudden, when things go wrong, and her responsibility is so committed, she attacks her dear friend Electrabel. Prime Minister, this is your responsibility. Your 2014 government statement said: "This government is aware of a potentially problematic short-term security of supply situation. He intends to take this problem by arm-to-body to avoid the risk of shortage." What have you done since 2014, you, your government and Mrs Marghem? Nothing! Worse than nothing! You have extended nuclear power, which is the source of shortages today. Why? For twenty years – and I can quote all the parties present here – nothing has been done, because we have trusted the market. But who's the deal? It's Electrabel. By trusting the market, we trust Electrabel. Here are my questions, Prime Minister. Do you maintain your confidence in Minister Marghem who has become somewhat the Jacqueline Galant of Energy? Can you assure us that there will be no shortage this winter? Who will pay the extra cost of the risk of shortage? Consumers, Mrs Marghem or Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject under discussion is a serious one and I will answer, as far as possible, the various questions that have been asked by distinguishing between the various subjects in relation to this information, which we learned on 21 September 2018. Parliament was immediately informed not only of the position of the minister but also of the various actors. What's the situation? Before the summer, we had no information that security of supply would be a problem. In the course of August we were still convinced, on the basis of Elijah's report, that we would survive the winter without difficulty. During September, on 21 September to be precise, we received important information from the operator, ENGIE Electrabel. We have received information from ENGIE Electrabel that work at the reactors, which were to be closed by the end of September, is being extended until March, which leads to a situation where, in memory, more than 25% of our needs are put in difficulty, given information, in the space of a few weeks, which is communicated to us. On the following weekend, the government's studies were immediately mobilized to take this situation with the body, which we took directly seriously, to make the clarity, the light - this is the case - on the exact situation and to try to refine the projections, the prognosis and the alternative capabilities that could be deployed. The top priority is to ensure security of supply. In committee, the Minister has already given Parliament more concrete information. Among other things, there is an initial 750 MW envelope and additional efforts are needed. I can tell you that the work is carried out hard, hour after hour, day after day. And I mean, before this Parliament, my confidence in the work that has been done to ensure that everything is done without exception to ensure security of supply, this winter as in previous years. Time after time and at this very moment, meetings are held and experts are at work. Yesterday I was in a direct meeting with ENGIE Electrabel's officials to make sure I took full responsibility for security of supply because they have a role to play with alternatives in Belgium and France, in particular. I would also like to give a clear answer to Mr Nollet's appeal. I would like to say to Mr Nollet and to Parliament as a whole that I understand well - it is the intransigent message that I personally addressed yesterday to Electrabel and ENGIE - that their responsibility will have to be assumed for security of supply but also for the impact in terms of abnormal price increases that is linked to this unavailability of the nuclear fleet. It is a very clear and clear message which, in my opinion, provides a slightly more serious and realistic response than other messages I have heard. J'y reviendrai. A second important point that I would like to make is that Mr de Lamotte asked for it early on are the lessons for the future. I must also be clear about this: I have often heard in our assembly that we had to leave nuclear power immediately. I have heard very often that we must immediately leave nuclear power stations in an orderly manner. If you do this, look how you are currently facing a supply problem and a price problem! We can't plead everything and the opposite, Mr. Calvo! I now turn to the question of the energy strategy. I would like to mention that in a few points. In recent months, the government has taken many structural, fundamental decisions for the future. Decisions have been taken to progressively implement this energy strategy: the capacity regulation mechanism adopted at first reading before the summer, offshore wind farms. The capacity will be doubled, with a significant decrease of 4 billion euros for invoices, Mr Laaouej, a decrease of 4 billion euros compared to the past and which will not be reflected on the invoices thanks to offshore wind. We are indeed going to address a very important issue that was foreseen as soon as the government agreement was reached. This is the debate on the energy standard. I will try to do a little pedagogy on the subject because the energy bill is available in several elements, as everyone knows and even if some pretend to have forgotten it. VAT is only one of the factors leading to the total amount of the invoice. There are also, Mr. Laaouej, distribution rates. Intercommunal distributions have a great responsibility. More than 30% of the invoice is affected by decisions taken on distribution tariffs, transport and also on public service aspects. The energy standard should prevent uncontrolled increases and excessive increases in energy prices for individuals and households. This is the work we will continue to do ardently. Finally, a particular appeal was made for the middle-income and lower-income groups. I believe that this work must continue within the government to determine what measures, if any, can be taken to have a direct effect and as quickly as possible when there is an abnormal increase in the bill. I note that there is a great difference of opinion between our friends from Ecolo-Green on the one hand and the PS on the other. I recall very well that the leaders of Ecolo made it clear a few years ago, when the decision on the reduction of VAT was taken, that this was not a good social and sustainable solution. Finally, I would like to remind Mr Laaouej, who has the short memory, that, in reality, VAT on electricity has been at 21% since 1995. There was indeed a decline that was in reality – the press was not mistaken at the time – a disguised form of postponing indexation. Mr. Laaouej, you are in a bad position to give lessons on the subject. The government ensures that confidence is restored, that every effort is made to ensure security of supply and, above all, that, thanks to the tax shift which is fully implemented, efforts are made to increase purchasing power for low and medium wage earners. This is a gain 15 to 20 times higher than the reduction in VAT on electricity!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u25	Prime Minister, I will start with a positive point. You have made a commitment here to the responsibility of Electrabel. The impact of its responsibility will be borne by Electrabel. We have noted it and will follow it carefully to see if you are going to make it happen. You didn't explain the way to do it, but you did. We'll be on the rendezvous to check. For the rest, if we had respected the law of exit from nuclear power, three reactors would be closed today. Because your blindness has forced you to extend power plants that were out of date, today we have five reactors – in November it will be six! – out of seven who are at a standstill. It's an outing by chaos rather than an organized outing! It's because of your blindness! How can you say here that it was on September 21 that you discovered the situation? Every week, I ask the Minister of the Interior, every week, I tell him about the problems of the reactors. It has been known since October 2017 that there is this concrete problem, probably in four reactors. You – and you're probably the only one in Belgium! – you discovered this problem on September 21. What a lack of anticipation! What a lack of vision on your part! I think it is absolutely necessary to leave this dependence on the data, information and choices of Electrabel. You must take over energy policy in such a way that today the citizens are reassured on their bill but also oriented towards the choices that will no longer be dictated by nuclear power.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u26	Prime Minister, the most worrying thing in your answers is that you do not realize that our citizens, households, suffer from day to day, from week to week. This is becoming more and more difficult for them. They have barely finished paying for the school year they learn that their energy bill will climb up to 400 euros more: 110 euros just for electricity! And your only answer is to say: "My faith is not our fault. We have taken a whole series of steps." But what are you talking about, Prime Minister? What people see is that life is becoming more and more expensive and that your policy is failing at all levels: economically, obviously, but also socially. Prime Minister, it is very simple: you have the opportunity to reduce their electricity bill immediately, which would be to reduce VAT. But you are not going to do it; you have just said it. This shows once again that you are not in the real lives of people, who find it so hard to close their end of the month. Unfortunately, Prime Minister, this is the denial of reality that characterizes you! For the rest, you tell me that, when this measure was taken, it was in order to avoid indexation. The fact is, you, you applied an index jump! That is the truth of your government policy, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u27	It's hypocritical! You did, but you don't.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u28	I would add that, a few months before the 2014 elections, you promised that your party would never touch electricity. The first step you took, because it was the N-VA that ordered it, was to increase the VAT on electricity when we lowered it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u29	Eight billion tax shift, eight billion tax shift, Mr. Laaouej!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u30	That is the truth of your policy!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u31	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your explanation. I've listened very carefully. I think the government's response is clear. When the government decided to extend the life of the nuclear power plants, it was known that they were old plants. By definition, therefore, they knew that there was a need for investment. Now saying that until this summer no signal was given that anything could possibly go wrong is the avoidance of our own responsibility. I asked you if you are prepared to lower the VAT on electricity. Your answer was a clear no. Prime Minister, that way you will show that you are putting people's concerns next to you. You have that possibility, but you smile a little away and compare it with an index jump. Prime Minister, people are smarter than you think. If one has to pay less for electricity, if life becomes less expensive, an index adjustment is less of tel. Your government has made life more expensive and people do not even get electricity instead.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u32	Prime Minister, you have indicated that the price increases that would be the responsibility of Electrabel would not be passed on to consumers but rather to Electrabel. The CREG graphs are very clear: it is indisputable that the peak of increase is not due to a European phenomenon but rather to Electrabel. Ladies and gentlemen, you are making the commitment today that no Belgian will have a euro increase on his bill because the fault is entirely due to Electrabel. We take note of this firm commitment, which must be implemented in the short term. That is to say that from the start of the new contracts in January - let us hear, ladies and gentlemen, the government's commitment - any increase in energy prices will be paid by Electrabel. There is a political sequence that opens today, at this minute: how will we charge Electrabel? This is the debate just launched by the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, Electrabel is making a lot of money. ENGIE made €1.4 billion in profits in 2017. I suppose you want to get those benefits. I guess this Friday, Kern will meet to see how he'll make Electrabel pay. As far as the PTB is concerned, we are in favour of this exceptional tax on the profits of ENGIE Electrabel with immediate negotiations or (...) thereafter. Another important point is VAT. You avoided the subject. The state budget will make millions of euros. The 15 to 20 % increase in the price of energy will be immediately reflected by 15 to 20 % of additional VAT receipts, as this is proportional. Today we propose to increase from 21% to 6%, which will not necessarily be a loss for the state's money. This fight will continue: 225,000 signatures have been collected to reduce this VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u33	Prime Minister, I will begin with the bright spot, unfortunately the only bright spot. You are clear about Electrabel's responsibility. You agree with our demand that Electrabel should pay those additional costs and not re-route them to our citizens and businesses. I really want to ask you to concrete that commitment in the hours and days that follow. I hope that we will all be able to do something about this. In addition to this one point of light, I did not quite understand your answer. I do not understand very well whether it has to do with campaign stress because you feel that your policy is not being behaved like this on the ground, why you are investing in attacks on the opposition, because that is really not going to set the light on. I have heard far too little about what the government will do now to guarantee that security of supply. You say you have total confidence in the Minister, in the work on the ground. Sorry, Prime Minister, but I ask you to take it into your hands, because having faith in Mrs Marghem is a bit like having faith in an old nuclear power plant. That doesn't work, that doesn't light the lamp and is actually unreliable. I therefore ask you to take this dossier into your hands, to put the claim into practice very quickly in the hours and days that follow, and above all to let the lamp light up and do everything necessary. I don't think Mrs. Marghem will be able to do it. I hope that our Prime Minister will take the initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u34	Prime Minister, my question was twofold. With regard to the risk of shortage, you replied that you were looking for a solution and that you were working hard. But you've been little prolix about this hard work. For my part, I don't think the hard work is yet producing megawatts. But we must move towards a solution for November and the following months. With regard to Electrabel's assumption of the additional cost, you have made it clear that it is necessary. I expect from you a proposal, whether it consists of a legal taxation to ENGIE or a commercial gesture on the invoice. We hope that adequate measures will be taken to support small and medium-sized wages. When this bill lands in your mailbox every month, it weighs heavily on your budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u35	Prime Minister, I can't believe your answer! You say that the temporary decline in VAT was a way, for the government you were part of, to deceive the population by making an index jump disguised. Once Prime Minister, you decided to skip the index and increase the VAT to 21%. So you have deceived the people three times!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u36	What about the tax shift?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u37	The tax shift is a gift to the bosses! Here we see the failure of your government and of a policy that gives absolute confidence to the market. Twenty years ago, we said we programmed the end of nuclear power, but at the same time we gave all the keys to the market. Policies have been completely relieved of responsibility. What is the situation today? We only have 8.7% renewable energy. This is one of the lowest scores in Europe. Nuclear power dominates and your government has extended the source of the problems. Above all, we are witnessing the failure of your government and your minister in charge of energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u38	Mr. President, Prime Minister, this Tuesday, your Minister, Mr. De Croo, presented his book entitled The Century of Women, a veritable ode to feminism and gender equality, if you are followed. Your Deputy Prime Minister explains that he is "passed from a feminist who is ignorant to a committed feminist" and that "we must lead a much more active policy in this area". You said that this was a real plea launching a "strong and inspiring" message. Prime Minister, I really wonder who you're making fun of. Women, certainly; of us too, since you say you want to sweep away the bad languages that, in the opposition, describe the government's action. According to you, you have taken a whole series of measures for women. I'd like to hear from you about what measures you're talking about. Are you talking about the tightening of the conditions for access to the early pension? Are you talking about the extension of the statutory pension age to 67? Are you talking about the attacks on the assimilated periods and the flexibilisation of employment? Are you talking about the decrease in the AGR for women who are involuntarily working part-time? Are you talking about increasing the cost of visiting the gynecologist? Are you talking about refusing to decriminalize the abortion? We will have an opportunity to come back to this at length this afternoon. Your Minister, Mr. De Croo, talk about a whole series of measures. He cited the extension of paternity leave, the establishment of a joint government, the imposition of a duty of transparency on companies on the wage gap. And you seem to support these measures. It's perfect. But know, Prime Minister, that all these measures, and many others, have been on Parliament's table for months. We have already tabled a considerable number of texts on these issues. But for months, nothing's moved. Prime Minister, my question is simple: what legislation will your majority agree to vote by the end of the legislature so that your government will finally take a first step in favour of women?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u39	Mr President, honourable Member, I am once again impressed by your sense of nuance in the way in which this issue is addressed. First of all, I note something that is not just the result of this government. At the international level, and we must welcome this, Belgium is rather well noted by the gender equality indexes: it is in twelfth place, according to the UN. This should encourage us to continue our work and efforts. I would like to repeat here that, although he did not do so on behalf of the government, I am proud that one of his members expressed, in a book intended to fuel the debate on democratic ideas, convictions, in particular that feminism is not only a matter of women, but also a matter of men. This message seems to me to have to be encouraged. As far as I'm concerned, I support him. Then, as soon as this government took office, we decided to deploy a gendermainstreaming strategy. With this in mind, it is up to each minister to see how he can advance equality between women and men and improve women's rights. This has resulted in very specific commitments. In 2017, evaluation reports were provided to Parliament, which is therefore fully informed of the initiatives taken. I will mention only a few, because time does not allow me to be exhaustive. I'll start with female entrepreneurship. We encourage more women to mobilize in economic life, for example in the private sector. Success is evident, as illustrated by the extension of maternity leave for the self-employed, the increase in service titles related to maternity, etc. I am also thinking of another phenomenon that affects women in particular: the threats of poverty that affect single-parent families. This subject is extremely important and serious. Tax decisions have been taken to address this issue. For example, a €20 million envelope has been set up to facilitate the use of childcare, with a view to making working life possible. To help the weakest people, who are isolated, we have increased tax-exempt quotas to strengthen their ability to work. That's concrete! In addition, the participation rate for women has increased under this Government. This is the first time in a long time. When we undertake an economic reform that works – which is not displeased by a few here – as evidenced by the 220,000 jobs that have been created, the resumption of investment, the reduction of the tax and parafiscal pressure to the level of 1.8% of GDP, we are doing useful work. Finally, on abortion, the debate will take place earlier. This is a bill, not a government bill, as you know. For more than 20 years, your party has satisfied itself with a situation where the abortion was governed by the Penal Code. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u40	It hurts you that it is this government and this majority that may, depending on the vote, allow the abortion to be removed from the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u41	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u42	Your silence lasted twenty years!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u43	Prime Minister, with what I heard today, I think you're really far from what a woman feels like and how we live on a daily basis. Honestly, for months, we have had hearings in our Equal Opportunities Committee where we have heard local actors come and tell us that the situation of women is deteriorating. You come and say with all your arguments: "It's all right. Move, there's nothing to see!" That's not true! We're women. We want action! Not yesterday, not tomorrow, but today! You announced that you were now finally ready to move forward. You should know, Prime Minister, that, in fact, we were waiting for you! Frankly, all the texts are here. Let's vote for them! Besides, you did not answer my question. What is still going to happen to improve the status of women by the end of the legislature? That is what we want to know! And we didn't hear anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u44	Mr. Speaker, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I must confess that, for the first time in two years in the House, I would have preferred to question you on a subject other than this one which seems particularly serious to me. On the night of 1 to 2 October, a Lambda citizen who was going to pick up his daughter at Landen station attended a police operation targeting migrants. It's not his idea to get involved. He didn't interfere with this police operation. He wanted to film her outside the security perimeter and, for any response, he was violently molested, glued to the ground, handcuffed, boarded in a police van and taken to the hospital, since he was bleeding quite loudly in the face. Reading his story in the press was already very upsetting, but I was even more touched last night when he told me over the phone about the physical trauma experienced. He still has severe pain in the ribs for having been kicked. But the trauma isn't just physical. He's also moral. His young daughter attended the scene where her father was handcuffed as a vulgar criminal for wanting to film a scene of arresting migrants quite muscular. As you know, Minister, I am one of those who, for more than twenty years, has been defending the police services, including the intentional acts of violence that they themselves suffer. Today, I wonder whether this act of violence is the result of a little zealous police officers or whether it is part of a more general context of violence. This violence is also taking place in the presence of Secretary of State Theo Francken. Was this muscular device and these acts in connection with the communication operation that Theo Francken seemed to want to conduct that evening in that place? I would therefore like to know why Mr Dumont was arrested that evening. He didn't obstruct the security system. It's not an administrative arrest. Is it an isolated event or not? Is it part of a framework that you would have liked, namely police violence against migrants and those who support them? I would like to know what is being done to record the violence that you have put in place. Is it operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u45	Mr Minister, first of all let me welcome Mrs Matz's return to this House and wish her the best in the performance of her duties. [[Applause]] Minister, Mrs Matz has just recalled the circumstances. I must say that I also received reliable testimony. He said how credible the testimony of the person who was caught up with some violence by the law enforcement authorities was. A first question arises. How is it that Mr. Franken was in the vicinity of the place where the event took place? How is it that a member of the government was informed? Is he the only one or do all members of the government receive the same information prior to such a police operation? As a mayor, I do not receive such information, quite legitimately, because I believe that the law on the police function does not allow it. I cannot be informed of the police operations that will be carried out, in particular, in the context of judicial missions. In this case, the prosecution may be concerned. I am therefore quite surprised that a member of the government, who is not responsible for the police, was able to receive this information. I would therefore like to know under what circumstances Secretary of State Theo Francken received this information and was able to visit the site. Is it usual for him to receive this kind of information for all operations across the country? In this case, it happens that it was in the province where he was elected and in a commune where he assumed responsibilities at some point. That's a little amazing! We are, in any case, faced with a confusion of the genres that is unacceptable to me. On the other hand, we want to know precisely the circumstances of the police intervention against this person who has been molested - the least we can say. Has there been, at the moment, a finding of any offence against the person concerned? Was he guilty of assault? Has he been threatening himself? The evidence does not seem to corroborate this statement. Like Ms Matz, I believe that it is necessary to be very firm when police officers are subjected to acts of violence of which they are known to be often victims, but there is a need to be fair and to have the same demands on them. You announced, Minister, in response to other parliamentary questions, that you were going to conduct an assessment of the violence sometimes committed by law enforcement officials. What is the status of this assessment and what measures are being taken to adapt behaviour accordingly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to join Mr Maingain in greeting Mrs Matz, who comes back to us after two years of absence. Welcome! But I must admit that this is the only point on which Mr. Maingain and I join. Having said that, I note that whenever the press questions the police, questions are asked in this chamber. I have no questions about the efforts made, every day, every night, by the tens of thousands of police officers, to ensure our safety, often at the risk of their lives. I would also like to take this opportunity to greet them. As regards the events that took place in Landen, this was an action by several police areas, including the one where Theo Francken was prevented from doing so. During the action that took place in Kruibeke a few weeks ago, the mayor Mr Stassen was also present. I don't see what the problem is. Mr President, if I may, I will read the report on this action. I believe that all the facts are there and that we will be able to draw conclusions from them more easily. "At 10:05 p.m., a train arrives at the station. According to reports, a group of about 20 migrants would be on that train. Eight administrative arrests have already been made in two previous trains. Two people who are in the station go to the place where the migrants came out of the handcuffed train. They start filming the intervention with their gsm. One of these two people is very close to the police and the arrested. The second one stays a little behind. A policeman comes in front of the man. Since the police officer does not know the man's intention, he asks him to stop filming and takes him away from the device. The man then immediately starts screaming that he has the right to film. He tries to bypass the police officer so he can go back to the scene and continue to film. The policeman asks him to stop filming and prevents him from approaching the scene. The person concerned then gives him his identity card, without stopping filming; he continues to assert that he has the right to film; he continues to shout. To the extent that he continues to disrupt the operation and wants to film as closely as possible, the police decide to remove him. It is seized on the right arm and from the front of the jacket and is thrown back, pushed behind the bushes that separate the parking lot from the dock. The person in question shouts very loudly, as does the second man who accompanies him. As he continues to oppose, he is deprived of liberty. The person concerned is grounded and lies on the belly. His right arm is attached but he holds the left under his body while continuing to resist. He'll be handcuffed with difficulty. Following his rebellion, he showed a slight abrasion on his face as well as traces of blood. In view of the absence of visible injury - this blood may come from the nose, the person concerned is transported to the hospital. The second person receives the vehicle keys and follows the team to the hospital. At the scene, the administrative arrest is lifted without the person having stayed in a transit cell. He had clearly been drinking. The on-site team established it. The second person confirmed it to the PJF." The facts speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u47	I would like to make a mistake about the fact that there is never a parliamentarian in this House who goes up to the barricades when violence is perpetrated against the police. I have had a unanimous bill passed for intentional acts of violence against police officers. You supported him, by the way. With respect to the accuracy of the facts, it is not the versions corresponding to what has been told. We can discuss as we wish, but was such violence necessary? There were no rebellions, no screams. The person had the right to film. She presented her identity papers. You didn't answer the question about why Theo Francken was there. Why was he warned? Was this part of his communication campaign for strong operations? It is indecent, in a state governed by the rule of law, that the police can act in such a way, presumably on instructions. That's what bothers me a lot. In the words you have just said, you are content with a report which, in a way, covers you and you are not looking further. I deeply regret it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u48	Minister, the facts speak for themselves? Well, yes, it is! First, the Secretary of State had no place in this place. He is not a burger in exercise and did not have to be informed. Even if it had been, the mayors were not informed beforehand of the control operations carried out by the police services, whose authority they did not, moreover, assume directly. It is therefore a total confusion of the genres and an illegality. I would like to know what authority forwarded the information to Mr Franken for his presence on that day. You will have to answer this question because we will return to it. Secondly, you read us the police report. It demonstrates that no criminal charge may be brought against the person who has been the subject of the coercive measure. The person has the right to film. We're in a public place. The person has the right to verify, through his or her observation, the manner in which the law enforcement agencies behave. This is in no way illegal or an infringement of the intervention. The very fact that a police officer asks him to stop filming is, at that time, a voice of order. This is a measure that is not legally necessary. The police cannot order, in a public space, a person to stop filming because they are in intervention. I challenge you to find me a legal provision that allows the police to order anyone to stop filming because the police are conducting an operation in public space. There's no justification for that. Illegality is on your side and not on the side of the victim.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u49	Deputy Prime Minister, the 7th edition of ASTRID User Days took place yesterday morning in Brussels. This vital network, which ensures the communications of our rescue and police services, is now celebrating its 20th anniversary. On this occasion, you recalled the importance of technological developments within these services, since it is true that current communications no longer go simply through voice but also through mobile data or videos. This is why you are currently preparing a legal framework that will allow a transfer via an auction and the allocation of certain frequencies to conventional mobile operators. In this regard, in cooperation with your colleague Minister De Croo, you have concluded agreements with the telecommunications sector to ensure the necessary guarantees for emergency and security services. This is an important element in our view. Deputy Prime Minister, what guarantees have you obtained to continue providing service to ASTRID users? This is the priority of access to the network in normal times first, then the possibility and permanence of communications in the event of saturation of the network, as we knew during the attacks of 22 March, and finally an integral coverage of the territory (forests and more remote areas). The director of ASTRID mentioned in the press "the development of an additional layer for private operators". I wish I knew what was going on. In general, can you also give us more details about this modernisation of the ASTRID network? Some are talking about dismantling, others are talking about fundamental modernisation. What about it? What is the timetable for these adaptations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u50	Mr Calomne, I must thank you for these questions, because in recent days the communication on this subject has been confused. First, what is it? It is clear that in the future, communication via ASTRID networks will increasingly be done through images, and even films. This requires capacity. We have a choice. We could develop this capacity ourselves, in the public sector. That would be a huge cost, because we should change all the networks, antennas, distribution stations. However, we know that the three operators in the commercial sector are engaged in the implementation of this 5G technology, the technology of the future. It is planned that the network will be quite wide in five to ten years. What we are talking about today is technology in five to ten years. We reserved part of the 700 MHz band for ASTRID communication. This means that this is not the end of ASTRID. On the contrary, ASTRID is preparing for the future, to implement and use modern technology and the future. We are talking about the network here, but all the other tasks, all the other responsibilities of ASTRID remain unchanged. It is true that we are not sure that the entire territory will be covered by this new technology within a reasonable time. The responsibility for ASTRID remains to anticipate development and ensure continuity of communication. The ASTRID network will continue to manage access rights. So this is not at all the end of ASTRID. On the contrary, we are preparing for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u51	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for these clarifications. Indeed, the messages could have been contradictory or confused in the last few days. It is clear that the adaptation of security services to technological developments, including, as you have said, the modernisation of tools to ensure this fundamental mission, is obviously an essential issue. It must, of course, be possible, as I have indicated, with all the necessary guarantees. A service as important as the communications of the rescue and police teams must operate optimally at all times and in all places in our territory. We will continue to pay attention to developments on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u52	Mr Minister, I heard you say yesterday on the subject that you cannot merge the police zones with a single stroke of pens. I have already seen that your spokesman communicates that the mayors of Brussels need permission to do so. Let's take a look at how to merge the zones. There are three possibilities. Firstly, there is the voluntary amalgamation, in accordance with Article 91/1. That path will not follow the mayors of Brussels, but it seems to be the path you want to follow. The second possibility is to do so by law. Now you seem to be pretending that this is not possible, but in the previous legislature a bill on this matter was tabled by your party mates Ben Weyts, Siegfried Bracke, Jan Van Esbroeck and Conseil Degroote. Then it could be. Now it can't be anymore. By the way, that proposal in the previous legislature was a perfect copy of a proposal tabled by the sp.a group in the Senate. Even then, some N-VA MPs were perfect copying machines, which is also this legislature. Only the steadfastness has vanished. Third possibility is to work via KB. After all, the police zones are located at KB. The law in Article 9 states that the Minister of the Interior takes the initiative in this regard. I thought you were, but of course I may be mistaken. You will then need the advice of a number of bodies, including the mayors, to consult the city council. That is an opinion; they do not have to agree. The opinion is also not binding. I hope, therefore, that you will say that this is a gross lie about your spokesman's statement if there is a need for agreement. Then, together with the non-binding opinion, you will present it to the Council of Ministers together with the Minister for Justice. After all, we are talking about a KB, which is discussed in the Council of Ministers. That seems to me to be the best procedure. If you want to find a basis, you can start from a text that you will effectively consult with the 19 mayors. You will then consult them and debate them with them. So you may be able to create a basis for support. The support does not come naturally; it did not fall out of the sky. You seem to be waiting for a miracle. I'd like to get an update.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u53	Mr Vuye, thank you very much for your course in law. In my turn, I will try to give you a course in politics. After all, we work here in a political body. The course of politics means that we in the government have agreed that things will only evolve at Community level if there is consensus among the four parties that make up the government. There is no such consensus on the merger of the six Brussels police zones. I would like to realise that, but that will not happen with the current majority. We will take further steps. The merger story must not be limited to Brussels. In my opinion, a major merger operation must be carried out throughout Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, on the understanding that the six Brussels police zones are being merged and not outside Brussels. Professor Brice De Ruyver started a study on that at my question, but unfortunately he passed away. His colleagues have taken over that study work and will produce a document on the ideal waist of the police zones in the future. I assume it will be an important piece of work for the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u54	Minister, you announced this study a year ago. With studies we should always be a little vigilant, because there are researchers who look very much, but never find anything, which may be the case in the study you mention. I note that you are completely avoiding your responsibility. You wait for a miracle, you wait for Lourdes in the Wetstraat. That's the class of politics you teach. You wait until there is a consensus between the parties somewhere. By the way, you are dealing in the same way with language legislation in administrative matters in Brussels, which you know is no longer being applied. The zero figure really comes into sight under your rule, because of the decisions of the Brussels local authorities, none of them are now in conformity with the language law. Here too, you are avoiding your responsibility. Exactly a year ago, the Committee on the Interior decided to hold hearings on a legislative proposal by Mrs Wouters and myself concerning the application of language legislation in Brussels. Our proposal has received a positive opinion from the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring and a positive opinion from the General Assembly of the Council of State. Mr Brecht Vermeulen, chairman of the Committee on the Interior, has still not found the time to organise these hearings after a year. That's an example of thinking, dare, but don't. I realize it's in your DNA, but unfortunately, it never comes out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u55	Mr President, Minister, in a political debate your colleague in Brugse N-VA argued for a prison boat in Zeebrugge. Transmigrants should be locked up on this prison boat until a judgment has been reached on their asylum application or return to their country of origin. Minister, I see absolutely no solution in this prison boat to the problem of transmigration that also exists in Zeebrugge. This seems to me to come down to putting the cat by the milk. In my opinion, such a centre should be a deterrent. I do not think it is a good idea to place such a centre on the road to Britain. I think a better idea is a closed center close to an open center. People who apply for asylum from us can then stay in an open centre until a judgment has been reached on their application. If this judgment is negative, they may be locked in a closed centre. Also the first, second, third or even fourth time they are arrested, they must be locked in a closed centre from which they can then be repatriated. It's not by boat, it's by plane. This is still not possible from Zeebrugge, but from Zaventem. I therefore believe that we must be sensible and put our heads together. We need to work with the neighborhood to find solutions. I have three specific questions. Certainly on the first question I would have liked a concrete answer. Are you or your colleague Francken planning to lay a prison boat in Zeebrugge? Was this just a balloon from your colleague, or does he know more? What added value do you see in a prison pontoon? Are you considering additional measures against human trafficking in Zeebrugge?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u56	Mr Demon, I will not shake new measures every week. After the ten measures we have proposed here in the last two weeks, my answer to your third question is therefore negative. Furthermore, the government has a consensus on this, and your party is therefore convinced that we need to increase the capacity of the closed centres faster than was foreseen in the initially approved master plan. We therefore need to speed it up. Two proposals are currently on the table. They're being investigated. First, releasing one or more barracks. Secondly, a pontoon which can be arranged as a closed centre and which must by definition be placed on the water. We have not yet decided whether we are going in one direction or the other. The proposals are being examined further, but if the choice was not made in the direction of a pontoon, then it is clear that there are not so many possibilities. The sine qua nun condition is that there is water. This can be found in Bruges, Ghent, Antwerp and a number of places. We must therefore look at what is most sensible. I agree with you that we must use common sense in this matter. Before the decision is taken, there will of course be consultation with the local government in question, but at the moment I am very clear on this point there has been no decision at government level either between a barracks or a pontoon or in the choice of location.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u57	I am absolutely in favour of extending the closed centres. I also hope that you mean by 'common sense' that if a pontoon is chosen, it will not be placed on the road that transmigrants take to get to Britain. If you are speaking with me about common sense, perhaps it is better not to come to Zeebrugge. You will have every support for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u58	I understood that Minister Marghem had an emergency. That is why, with the agreement of his colleagues, we shall first hear Mr Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u59	Madam Minister, yesterday we received the news that the European Parliament voted on new emission standards for passenger cars. This means that by 2030 they can emit 40% less, have 40% less impact on our environment and on the healthy air for our lungs. This is more stringent than what the European Commission had put forward, and our group absolutely welcomes it. Yes, these standards are ambitious, and we should not be faint about them, but they are also much needed and realistic. The Dieselgate Commission has made a number of recommendations on this subject, including the tightening of emission standards. We are taking steps in the right direction and we are of course glad that there is movement there. The agreement you concluded with the other energy ministers also covered the emissions and energy consumption of passenger cars. This leads to a number of questions, because negotiations must now begin. The European Parliament, the Member States and the Commission must now start negotiations on effective measures in practice. How do you look at that, Madam Secretary? What is your first response to the sharper standards? How do you intend to do that? What possibilities do you see for this in the implementation of the Energy Agreement and what is being put forward at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u60	Mr President, honourable Member, as you have just pointed out, we are at the start of an important negotiation. The CEO coordinates, as well as all ministers in charge. Indeed, as you know, this theme is not just federal. Air quality is regional. Like me, Minister Bellot is involved. We are therefore trying to make a Belgian position converge, knowing that Belgium has a very special position. We have a high density in terms of roads and of course many emissions to combat. One way to fight them, you said, is to make mobility cleaner. I think – that's how I stand in this debate – that this is an opportunity for our carmakers well present in Belgium who are increasingly developing electric vehicle lines, for example. But it's not just the electric car. We know that, if we develop this type of vehicle a lot, we will have to produce electricity. There is also the compressed gas car and all the measures we need to take to supply these vehicles on our territory. This, in my view, is the interesting impetus given by Europe in this negotiation, which I do not know, since it begins, where it will be achieved in concrete terms in the coming days. You will have the opportunity to re-examine me in committee on this subject so that I can share with you the Belgian position that has been finalised.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u61	Madam Minister, I think it is indeed important that we see this as an opportunity to weigh this up. You know that in recent days, especially in Flanders, there has been a lot to do about air quality. I think it's a good thing if we go to those conversations with an open sight. Electricity can indeed become a knot, as you say. That is a debate in which we sometimes cross swords and work hard. I think it is a positive thing that we embrace this, that we look at what is possible so that we can return it to our citizens. As always, we try to play the ball briefly. We have done so today and will do so in the coming days and weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u62	Mr President, Minister, several newspapers today reported that one prisoner in three uses drugs. That's no surprise because in 2007 it was already reported that almost one inmate in three was on drugs. The spokesperson for drug policy in prisons said that studies have been pointing to the same relatively high level of drug use since 2000. So the problem is not new at all. It is a pity, however, that there is not going to be any improvement. On the one hand, this is not surprising, because the latest state-of-the-art deception and the ensuing conflict of competence have resulted in the complete disappearance of some of the drug aid services for one and a half years. In May 2016, CAPs, the central reporting points for drug addicts in prisons disappeared. This service was completely shut down until last October TANDEM, leadership and registration after detention and more, took over the guidance. Meanwhile, your colleague De Block has launched some pilot projects in the prisons of Hasselt, Lantin and Sint-Gillis, with attention to screening. Mr. Secretary, will you be more committed to screening? The majority of drug users were pre-detention users. Secondly, what measures will you take to prevent the use of hard drugs in prison? After all, a study by the University of Ghent showed that more than 10% of those inmates who once reported using heroin just started doing so in prison. Finally, are you going to bet more on control? If you can smuggle drugs, you can also smuggle other things, which is not immediately reassuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u63	Mr President, Mrs Pas rightly points out this serious problem, which, I believe, is global. It is not easy to avoid drug use in prison because visitors, and in some cases also staff members, lend themselves to the introduction of drugs. However, we are making progress in the field of guidance, in cooperation with the Communities and with the services of Minister De Block. During her visit to the prison in Saint-Gilles, I heard some inmates say that the guidance improved. I was glad to hear that. More importantly, we carry out three types of checks, namely on visitors, on prisoners and on cells, and the number of actions increased from 202 in 2014 to 304 in 2017. In 2014, 45% of the drug seizures controls took place, in 2017 in 63% of the controls. In short, there is more control and control is more efficient. As far as the type of drugs is concerned, we are also making progress. We still find hashish, marijuana and cannabis, but the amount of seized heroin has fallen from 1 193 grams in 2014 to about 20 grams in 2017. There are currently three drug-free departments. It is true that many, too many, prisoners are addicted but a small hopeful point is that only 6% of prisoners who were not previously addicted became addicted to prison. That's way too much, but it's only 6%. Excuse me for saying so. It is, of course, in addition to the increase in all possible actions and screenings, above all the meaningful detention-fulfilling that helped. We will publish the royal decree on the detention plan later this year under the basic law. In doing so, we will try to make much more use of reintegration and parole. I'm hoping for a positive effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You rightly point out that this is a global fact and that our figures are not worse or better than those in other countries. In other cases, however, one always has the ambition to be the best student in the class. The figures in this respect are still far too high. Drug use among inmates greatly increases the risk of recurrence. Inmates who use drugs are often much more aggressive and that creates extra violence and theft within the prison walls. There's definitely gonna have to be another tooth. Despite your drive to save justice, sufficient resources must be used to tackle this problem, namely through screening, supervision and control. We have become more efficient, but the frequency has yet to be increased. A cost of 63 % means that there is still far too much circulation. Controls must be stepped up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u65	Mr President, Minister, on Tuesday ten thousand people again took action against government policy in the area of pensions. So there were ten thousand people again, again, for the umpteenth time. It's just another time, because you didn't listen to me the last time. Those people are taking action against the policy for a number of reasons. Firstly, you have raised the retirement age to 67 years, I repeat. In addition, you abolished the pension bonus. You've completed the runways. You've finished the equations. You entered an index jump. In addition, you carried out a tax shift which was also detrimental to pensions and to those who are retired. On top of that, Minister, there are still the heavy professions. You promised at the beginning that the government would raise the retirement age, but would seek an alternative for those with a heavy occupation. You immediately raised your age. You've only been employed for two months. However, we still have to wait for the decision on the list of serious appeals. We still do not know which direction we are heading. People are very worried. They do not know when they will be able to retire. Nor do they know how much pension they can have. More than that, they fear that they will have to pay for it themselves. After all, if you retire earlier, you will also have less pension. People who have worked very hard throughout their lives and worked hard will thus end up receiving less pension than in the past. Minister, you are laughing at this, as the whole government laughs at the ordinary people. But tens of thousands don't laugh at it. Tens of thousands protested on Tuesday. Minister, my only question is also a simple question. Will you finally listen to what people are saying? Will you finally listen to people with a heavy occupation who say that they cannot last up to 67 years? Will you listen to them and will you finally stop your savings logic in your pension policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u66	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this week we have witnessed a trade union action in the various provinces of our country following pension reforms. Nor was it the first time in this legislature. If this government is implementing reforms in pensions and in the labour market, it is not from some sadomasochistic idea to bully people by making them work longer. This is not a gift they want to give to the people. Unfortunately, Mrs Temmerman, no one has so far been able to formulate a sound alternative to the fact that in our country we find that the careers are much shorter. In all other European countries a slightly longer career can be achieved. We ensure that pensions remain affordable and that everyone gets a decent pension. As long as you keep turning around in that circle and continue to claim that short-term careers and decent pensions are possible, we will regret to note that you have no alternative to this government policy. I understand the concern. I understand that there is a need to clarify what exactly is going to be the end-of-life age. We are talking about 67 years in 2030, but the debate on the heavy professions is alive. And rightly so, because it is certain that not everyone can work up to that age. Mr. Secretary, how did you capture this week's signal? What is your agenda for the coming months in order to clarify the difficult professions for the public?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u67	Minister, 60,000 people demonstrated in the streets of Belgium two days ago: 15,000 in Antwerp, 7,000 in Liège and Courtrai, thousands in Ghent and Brussels. In short, the mobilization was massive. She showed that your policy isn't going through. People do not understand why, in our society, we must continue to work longer and longer, while at the same time, productivity in companies continues to increase to the point that people are tired. When you say that life expectancy increases, you forget to specify that it is very variable, so living in good health depends on the social class to which you belong. During the actions in Liège, I saw ladies working in the cleaning sector who told me: "Raoul, I can't stand it anymore. I work all the time, eight hours a day. I have to clean up tens of square meters. I'm broken." I met firefighters who asked me, "How can we keep going to put out the fire until we're 65 or 62?" I've met workers who felt it's impossible to work again. In addition, scientific studies are very clear. Do you know, Minister, what is the healthy life expectancy in the cleaning sector? Doesn't that tell you anything? I'll tell you, 49 years old. The life expectancy of a person in good health in the cleaning sector is 49 years. And you're going to retaliate to all these people, "You have to work longer"? It's easy to say when you're a minister! The problem – and you know it – is that just after they retire, workers, who you ask to work up to 67, are no longer healthy and die. That is the reality, Minister. How many times have I not heard my father, who is a steel worker in pre-pension, say that several of his colleagues had died or suffered from serious illness four or five years after their departure? This is the reality of the world of work. And that's why people don't accept your measurements. The common union front has fought and left-wing political organizations struggle to indicate that it is time to reduce the pension to 65, as in Canada, and the early pension to 60, as well as to re-authorize time credits to 55. In connection with workable work, the right to take up 55 years of time credit disappears. You are abolishing end-of-life measures. Mr Minister, my question is clear. Will you come back to your plans? Will you be aware of the demand of social organizations for retirement at 55, 60 and 65 years? This is an important demand. I look forward to your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that I agree with the slogan of the demonstration, the guarantee of a decent pension at a reasonable age. That's what we do. Our reforms have a positive impact on the amount of pensions. This positive impact was evaluated by the Federal Planning Bureau. For example, it is estimated that the tightening of retirement conditions by 2060 will allow an average increase in pension rates between 2.2 and 7.3 % depending on the scheme. Since the accession of the government, the minimum pension for a single person has increased by 122 euros per month for employees and 185 euros for self-employed persons. Never before had a government increased the amount of the lowest pensions to this extent. We have already spent almost EUR 1 billion on upgrading minimum pensions and it has not yet been done. As for the claim for a minimum pension of 1,500 euros, I also draw your attention to the fact that thanks to the various increases decided by this government, we are already for a minimum pension at the household rate of 1,556 euros. As for the single minimum pension, it is now above the poverty line, as pointed out by the Study Committee on Ageing. It is true that we have taken steps to guarantee a pension for our children, for our grandchildren, for future generations. These measures aimed at extending the length of the career were obviously essential. If I agree with the slogan of the demonstration, I have more difficulties – let's call a cat a cat – with the lies that are spread by some. I said it, I say it again and I'll probably say it again. I'll say it again. No, not everyone will have to work until they're 67. Those who started working early can always leave early. Those who started working at the age of 18 can leave at the age of 61. The person who started working at the age of 21 can leave at the age of 63. To say and to pretend, as I hear in all the speeches of a certain opposition, that everyone will have to work until the age of 67, is purely and simply misinformation and organized lie. Secondly, we want to take into account those who have a difficult job. As a reminder, two out of three trade unions in Committee A for the public sector have signed a memorandum of understanding on the preliminary draft law on the recognition of the tenability of certain functions for the determination of pension rights. This bill allows workers who have exercised a difficult function either to anticipate their retirement or to continue their professional activity and to benefit from a higher pension in this case. I confirm that the worker who, on the basis of these provisions, decides to anticipate his retirement will not receive a lesser pension. The bill does not change the way in which pensions are calculated. He will, of course, benefit from a pension which will be calculated on the basis of the number of years of his career at the time of retirement. This has always been the case in all cases. On the other hand, if the worker receives recognition of penitibility and chooses to pursue his professional career, he will be entitled to a penitential bonus in addition to the amount of his pension. He will therefore have a higher pension than today. That's the reality! What is the situation with regard to the follow-up to work on the file on the heavy-duty professions? As you know, the trade unions and employers' organisations are currently meeting in the NAR to define the list of heavy-duty professions in the private sector. I hope for a rapid breakthrough and an agreement so that we can start the parliamentary procedure as soon as possible. Moreover, I find it strange to argue against reform, while social dialogue is still ongoing. The purpose of the reforms undertaken is to guarantee a decent pension at a reasonable age for all workers but also for all future generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say that I do not think anyone is opposed to a career extension. However, Minister, you and your government have taken all kinds of measures not to extend this career. As an example, the abolition of the pension bonus, the phasing out of runways and the phasing out of such periods are all measures that prevent people from working. Secondly, Minister, you say that you have raised the lowest pensions. However, you do not mention that prices have also been increased. We have just had a debate on energy prices. I dare you to go with me, even outside the election period, on a house visit in certain neighbourhoods. During house visits I hear that a lot of people used to get around with their retirement, but not anymore. Minister, you say that there will be no difference in pensions. I know you think all this is ridiculous. You're laughing at the ordinary people instead of listening to them. Isn't that right? What now exists for a career of 40 years with two criteria of heavy work is a minimum pension of EUR 1 077 and these people will lose EUR 135 in a monthly pension. How dare you say that no one will lose a pension? Minister, you are a stranger to the world and you do not take into account people who have worked hard for more than 40 years and are now retiring. Their pension will not be enough to pay for an ordinary retirement home. That's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u70	Minister, you have answered intellectually honestly, but in this debate people are pretty quickly falling into slogans. You also pointed out that pamphlets of incorrect information were published in the demonstration. I have already said in the introduction to my question that the coalition is not acting on the basis of any kind of sustenance, to bully people, Mrs Temmerman. Everyone knows that it's not easy for a retired person today. We know that. The challenges are great, but if we want better pensions for everyone, we will have to extend the careers, whether we like them or not. We will need measures that are not so popular, Mrs Temmerman. They must also be dared to defend them. That is what we must do with this coalition. We will, too. As you have also said, Minister, it is a little strange that there are now actions on the streets, in the sense that there is plenty of social dialogue on the precise modalities for the heavy professions. We must take the time to conclude this consultation and ensure that the consultation is conducted in a constructive way, not in a populist way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u71	Minister, speaking of slogans, you say in the media that only 10% of people will be forced to work until they are 67 years old. What are your sources? How can you advance this figure? You've been unable, for three years, to prove it for the good reason that you don't have that number. If it only affected 10% of people, why would you have raised the pension age to 67? That figure is wrong, I say here, openly. You can't prove it. The reason is very simple. Given that you are working on the career, and that it will take 42 years of career to have early retirement processes, how many women will have these 42 years of career, Minister? The vast majority of women will not have these 42 years of career. You know that the number of people who will have to work up to 67 years is well above that 10%. Minister, stop the misinformation! Assum that you have raised the pension age to 67 years to actually get a large part of the population to work up to 67 years! And now I'm on my way with the painful trades file. What came back to me from the field was that a lot of people explained to me that at 67 years of age all jobs are painful. At 67, we're tired, whatever the trades. That is why you must return to the age of 65, as in Canada. For, indeed, in our society, which is one of the most productive in the world, people are "dead tired" at the age of 67. This is the signal that the people have given you, and that you do not understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u72	Mr President, Minister, on Tuesday, 2 October, the European Finance Ministers adopted within the Ecofin Council the proposal extending the reduced VAT rates to the online press and digital publications. This means that e-books and online newspapers will now benefit from the same advantage as those on paper. This proposal is logically in line with technological developments. Digital editions are growing and we must take them into account. For our group, the value of a book should not depend on its format or the way in which the reader has access to it. The same reasoning applies to the press. We therefore welcome this progress at European level. As you know, our group tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject, which was adopted more than two years ago. We asked the government to take responsibility for introducing an identical VAT rate for paper and digital books in our country. We called for a strong case at European level for certain services, such as e-Books, to also be taken into account for reduced VAT rates. I am all the more pleased today that the decision taken concerns books and the press. Minister, we know the industry has been waiting for this long time. We can therefore imagine that his reaction is positive. Have you ever had any feedback on this? Could you also provide us with a timetable for the implementation of this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u73	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed VAT in a different context this afternoon. If taxes are to be paid or not, they always deserve a little extra attention, especially when it comes to cultural media or information distributors such as books or newspapers. Sometimes we get red light from Europe, but now Europe gives the green light to do something in this area and to eliminate a strange discrimination due to different VAT rates of 0 %, 6% or 21% depending on the carrier, but with the same content. We are quite satisfied with what the Ecofin Council of 2 October has achieved in this regard. More and more people offer an analogue and a digital version or only a digital version of information carriers. We are interested when Belgium will make use of the option related to VAT. Will the same zero rate be applied to electronic newspapers? For books we have a rate of 6 %, but newspapers enjoy the absolute favor rate of 0 %. Is this zero-rating extended to the payment sections of newspaper websites or PDFs that can be purchased via newspapers? Or will it vary according to the type of publication? It would be particularly interesting to know what can be supported there and what the future of the e-book will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u74	Madame Cassart, Mr Deseyn, last Tuesday we finally got the green light at the Ecofin Council on VAT on electronic publications. That dossier has been on the table for a long time and has been blocked by the attitude of one country, the Czech Republic, for a long time because it was linked to other dossiers. That blockhouse is over now. To date, Europe has imposed a minimum VAT rate of 15% on Member States for digital publications. As far as VAT rates are concerned, as can be said for all taxation, the complexity is quite impressive. We have tried to simplify the rules, including VAT rules, and we have been very successful. However, as you both pointed out, in terms of publications, a complex situation actually persists. Let me outline the picture. The current VAT rate for printed books and magazines is 6%. For paper newspapers there is a zero rate. Individual sales of digital publications are subject to a rate of 21%, including for e-books. In order to make it completely complex, there is also a zero rate on the combination sales of paper and digital daily and weekly newspapers. I believe that it is clear that some simplification is at issue here. The European directive is, of course, an appropriate basis for this. It is very important, however, that we do this right from the outset and that we also wait for the European directive on this issue to be drawn up. It will provide further specifications for a number of cases. It is certainly necessary to study how we can apply this possibility of a reduced VAT rate for digital publications. In practical terms, and in full compliance with this directive, which I have just mentioned, if we are to take into account, among other things, the equivalence between paper and digital publications, this equivalence will have to be clearly described. This is very important. If we do not, problems will arise at the level of jurisdiction. The proposal, which I will be working on and for which I, until the directive is effective, will certainly be in contact with the various actors concerned, will of course be submitted to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. The pending legislative proposals will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u75	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. Our group looks forward to the implementation of this measure. You are talking about harmonisation and we welcome it. Books, the press - whatever form and medium - are essential to the development of knowledge, reading and culture. This facilitates access to these media. This is a logical development given the growth of digital publishing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u76	Minister, it is good that all carriers will be treated neutrally. We still have to wait for the directive, but we can already do preparatory work. As you point out, Minister, it is important that we invest in qualitative information. One will have to define what a newspaper is and which carrier can benefit from a zero rate. Journalists are critical of us and we are sometimes critical of journalists, but it is an investment in democracy that information is disseminated as widely as possible and that it is well defined to which the zero rate applies. If that means more books are read, then that's nicely taken away. I hope that we can really do something for a sector that is sometimes already struggling.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u77	Mr President, Minister, I will point out and relay a surreal episode which, in my opinion, is not isolated in terms of mobility. A second primary class in Frameries (in my municipality) requested a day trip to Brussels. The line is ideal since it is direct, in any case at certain times of the day. If the request was made a month and a half in advance by the school, SNCB notified him of a refusal on the grounds that it was a journey during peak hours. In conclusion, children have been sent back to the roads, which is obviously everything but a good decision on mobility, pedagogy and the evolution of practices. It is incomprehensible, Minister, to invoke the fact that trains are crowded. Of course, they are, and it would be good to increase the number of cars in a sustainable way every morning and every evening. Excuse me, to invoke the problem of school groups that would cause more crowded trains is an inaudible excuse! In addition, I hope you will agree with me that allowing it by shifting travel times is totally incomprehensible. This means, on the part of SNCB, saying: "No, children between the ages of 7 years are not travelling from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. (a trip to Brussels takes a little longer) or from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. This makes no sense. Minister, my questions are very simple. Do you think like me, as Minister of Mobility, that if SNCB is asked to organize trips and school trips during peak hours, its mission is to do everything and do everything possible to make these school trips possible? In addition, can we expect you, as Minister of Mobility, to take an initiative to have SNCB review its internal organization to allow these school trips and train trips to young children?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u78	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, the SNCB informs me that it is not always possible to make a reservation for a group in peak hours on the main lines from and to Brussels, for example, because trains, during peak hours, already have a very high occupancy rate because of the subscribers who use them every day. However, school travel booking requests are reviewed by SNCB and are subject to tailor-made proposals to enable the group to travel in the best possible conditions by ensuring that it can be assembled in a single car, an important aspect for school groups and their attendants, especially if they are very young, and to benefit from the 70% tariff reduction. Currently, in the event that SNCB cannot respond positively to the demand of a particular group for a particular train, it proposes to find, together with the managers, the most suitable time to ensure a trip in the best conditions, both for the group and for regular commuters. As a reminder, SNCB has invested €1.3 billion in the purchase of new modern double floor equipment, which will allow a significant increase in the number of seats. On the question of why it would not be possible to add cars, I would remind you that in peak hours on the main lines, trains are already driving in their maximum configuration. The constraints are therefore logistical and security. It seems to me logical for SNCB to apply rules that help ensure a seat for customers paying the full price, whether they are tickets or subscriptions. On the other hand, it is also logical that SNCB cannot respond favourably to all requests for group travel in peak hours if it is aware that it will not be able to provide an adequate service, i.e. to guarantee that it can travel together and have a seating position for each member of the group. In the event that SNCB is obliged to decline the demand for travel, which unfortunately can happen but is not a generality, contrary to what might be expected, the ideal is that the group of occasional users may shift their journey somewhat in the morning or evening in order to be outside peak hours. This is the subject of discussion. Thus, commuters and groups can travel in good conditions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this issue is part of a more comprehensive reflection on the desynchronization of office and school hours with a view to improving the mobility of the country. However, in only 10 per cent of cases, especially for high-speed lines, the refusal or the offer of offsets occurs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I expected something else from a Minister of Mobility than just being SNCB's spokesperson. Indeed, you speak of a very high occupancy rate during rush hours. I don't know if you take the train from time to time, but this is the daily commuters. Let's be serious! You'd better take a little more proactive action to increase the number of cars on a daily and sustainable basis and to ensure that commuters travel in better conditions. In some cases, the SNCB is able to drastically increase the number of cars: during festivals, strikes. But I note that on a daily basis, while the mission of responding to all requests for school trips should be at the heart of SNCB's priorities, you agree and relay its refusal. A revolution of mentality is indispensable; even more so in such a case, because it is our children. It is also our future in terms of mobility. I hope, Minister, that you will look at this issue again and take an initiative to force SNCB to take a different approach to the school group's requests for excursions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u80	Minister, this week we saw the Pano reportage "Monkey on the menu." This showed that it is actually relatively easy to buy meat of protected species shot in and around the Congo basin for consumption in Brussels. That's also called bushmeat. Apparently, quite a lot of bushmeat enters our country through Zaventem airport. Customs, of course, carry out checks, both through samples and through more targeted checks, together with the BFSA. The BFSA, in turn, is responsible for the identification and destruction of the meat. It is necessary to detect Bushmeat, apart from other meat products, because there is a greater risk for food safety and even for general public health. Moreover, it is also an attack on biodiversity there when bushmeat is no longer used by the local population for consumption, but also as a kind of luxury product exported to Belgium. Since last year there has been a collaboration between the BFSA and CITES for the mapping of imports via Zaventem airport. You are of course aware of the problem, Minister, but what exactly is the size of the problem? How many reports are known at the BFSA? Checking at the airport is one thing, the resale of these products on the local market is something else. What is the BFSA's mission in this area? What sanction is provided for the import and resale of these illegal meat products on the market? Finally, the results of the research in cooperation with CITES are expected in 2019. How long will it take us to implement its conclusions on the ground? Do you see any ways to speed that up?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u81	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after watching the broadcast of Pano, we have to note that Zaventem airport is an effective hub for the import of wild animal meat, especially from the rainforests and the basins of the Congo stream. That so-called bushmeat will then be sold in Brussels. It is an international problem, with a major negative impact, both in terms of the environment and in terms of public health. On World Animal Day it would be no harm to dwell on the extinction of animal species as a result of illegal hunting. All countries must make efforts to this end, including with a view to preserving our biodiversity. Not just other countries, but also us! The problem is not new and has been known for some time by our services. In addition to the ecological impact, there is of course also the impact on public health. We all know that transporting animal products from one country to another entails risks. There would even be the risk of introducing viruses like Ebola in this way. In the broadcast on the VRT a number of pieces of meat were analysed by a number of biologists. They even found traces of Monkeypox. That is a smallpox virus that has been eradicated for a long time, but we all understand, of course, that this can happen very quickly if we do not pay attention. There are very severe penalties for such imports, but there appears to be a problem of persecution. Customs shall carry out targeted checks and spot checks. The BFSA is now involved, which is why I am asking you this question, Minister. In order to have certainty about origin, DNA analyses should be carried out regularly, which may lead to criminal proceedings, but the number of criminal cases is very limited. Mr Minister, you have the power of food safety and you are the guardian minister of the BFSA, so I would like to hear from you the following. Firstly, what about the cooperation between the various services, such as the BFSA and customs? Secondly, what specific risks to public health are there? Thirdly, do you have a view of the extent of the public health problem? Fourthly, what efforts do your services make in cooperation with those of your colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u82	Mrs Capoen and Mr Janssens, I would like to answer your questions, but I am surprised that you do not put them to my colleague, the Minister for Finance. I've taken note of the reportage that was broadcast yesterday by the VRT and the RTBf. This practice is, of course, illegal because it involves protected species. It is, of course, absolutely essential to fight effectively against the illegal import of exotic animals. Having said that, I think it is important to describe the role of the various services involved. The starting point is indeed the application of the Washington Convention ( CITES). The services in charge of their application are the customs, police and inspection services of the FOD Environment, and the BFSA is responsible for the legal import. However, we must make a distinction according to whether we are dealing with legal or illegal imports of bushmeat. In this case, it is completely illegal imports. The BFSA certainly exercises a competence regarding the legal import of bushmeat. However, it is customs which, in ports and airports, for example, is in the front row with regard to their illegal import. Customs are the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Of course, the BFSA has confirmed to me that it carries out checks in commercial and restaurants. However, in the context of these controls, the BFSA did not find any meat of this type that had been imported illegally. As you know, it is not part of the BFSA's mission to intervene in the home of individuals. I am aware that this is an important dossier that must mobilise us all. That is why I have informed the cabinet of my colleague, the Minister of Finance, that I and my administration are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u83	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is clear that more controls are needed, especially to bushmeat, as they involve a health risk. Smugglers always find a way. Stopping them by customs is one thing. However, denying them access to the local market for further sales can be done through targeted controls and, above all, through clear and strict sanctioning. That is a minimum to stop such practices. That is why a mobilisation at every level is needed. After all, the BFSA has the task of raising awareness about the risks of both import and use of bushmeat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u84	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply, which surprises me somewhat. You have, of course, already faced several crises, such as the fipronil crisis and Veviba. It doesn't stop there. We must be very honest in this. However, you do have the full primary competence in food safety and the BFSA. I can only continue to argue that there should be a thorough cooperation, and I really do take this as a starting point between your services and the ministers themselves. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u85	We have thus reached the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u86	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Vincent Van Quickenborne, David Clarinval, Wim Van der Donkt, Stefaan Vercamer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u87	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Delizée and Mr Vercamer, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u88	Mr President, I note that no minister is present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u89	I see it as you do! Even if this is a bill, it is good for the government to be represented. I ask the services to call the ministers concerned. I believe that the ministers Van Overtveldt and De Block are responsible for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u90	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u91	No, he's not authorized in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u92	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I will make a comprehensive statement on the three proposals, all of which concern the elements that are fundamental to workers. They have been widely debated in committee, but my group would like to make a few comments on these three proposals. With regard to the first text, we remember very well that the law that you passed, which institutionalizes work in the dark, has been the subject of a lot of criticism from civil society. All those who have been interviewed have voted against this law which creates unfair competition, internal social dumping, deprofessionalisation of trades, workers without protection, and causes a loss for the financing of the State and social security. Despite this opposition, you decided at the time to go into force by promising us quickly a restorative law. This is this pseudo-reparative law, which had to respond to the fundamental remarks of civil society. This proposal does not respond to the comments in question. Worse, it might accentuate them. What a contempt! Have you submitted this bill to workers, employers and associations? Of course not! In their opinion, you have nothing to do with it! We cannot condone your adjusted measures, which do not meet these criticisms in any way and which precarise our fellow citizens, nor your methods. We will therefore vote against this proposal. The second text is no better than the first. Indeed, with this text, you want to allow the bosses to make their staff work even more easily on Sundays. Definitely, for you, people need to work more and more flexibly. After attacking the week of 38 hours, you attack today on the day of collective rest. However, Sunday is often the only day on which workers can spend time with their family and get away from work concerns. Sunday rest is a social achievement that cannot be underestimated. The importance of balance between work, family and private life is a necessity. Some of you recognize it, but in reality you do the opposite. That is why we will vote against this proposal. Finally, I come to the third proposal. For jobs that are in short supply, you want to facilitate what is called a "schooling clause". The latter obliges those who leave their jobs within three years to partially repay the training or training they have received. Today, these clauses are already possible, but are subject to certain conditions designed to protect workers. For example, the worker must receive a sufficient wage or be trained to acquire new skills. Your proposal removes these protections. You say that the existing ones do not offer any training and that they need training, especially in jobs that are in short supply. The result will be that a worker receiving a small wage who leaves his employer could be forced to pay for costly training, even if it has not given him any skills to value on the labour market. The worker will therefore be obliged to pay for training which has not taught him anything. It's incomprehensible. Some workers will find themselves trapped in an employer they cannot leave, for lack of means to repay the training. This is insane. The result is that they will think twice before accepting one in a job in shortage. Therefore, this measure is totally counterproductive. In fact, you are once again using jobs that are in short supply to justify the indefensible, as with your famous deal jobs, which should be called "deal against workers". With the announced decline in unemployment benefits, you claim to solve the problem of vacancies in our country, but everyone knows that it is total smoke! A large number of studies, and recently academic experts, have shown that reducing unemployment benefits faster and more strongly does not encourage people to return to work more quickly. Precipitating people in poverty does not help them find a job. When citizens, workers have to survive with little means, their priority is not the search for a job. So you are wrong about this too. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall finish. Minister, once again, and systematically, you are planning anti-social and ideological measures without any real scientific basis. Most of all, you're not listening to anyone. Worse, you despise the experts, the actors on the ground and especially the citizen. As always, it's the most fragile ones who pay and pay for your broken pots. As you have understood, we will vote against these three texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u93	Mr. Chair, Minister, DéFI will not support this correcting bill, which does not correct much. Of course, it makes it possible to take better account of the terminology in force in the French-speaking federated entities, which will undoubtedly improve legal certainty by avoiding hesitation or even recourse. The French version of the original draft was inconclusive, including, for example, denominations of functions not recognized by the Wallonia-Brussels federation. Note that it would have been better to consult before legislating to avoid such corrections; but that is not what concerns us the most in the introduction of voluntary and occasional challenges to a maximum of 500 euros per month. We note with satisfaction that youth movements and playgrounds are now excluded, but Brussels and Wallonia called for many other sectors to be excluded, which you did not take into account. We therefore continue to oppose the approach itself. In substance, this correcting legislation does not meet our expectations, as I had already had the opportunity to express it on July 5 during the debate on the original bill. The latter has aroused and still provokes a real lifting of shields. Representatives of French-speaking associations gathered in a platform called "50 shades of black", to denounce all the perverse effects of this project. You are accused of wanting to launder work in the dark by making it legal at the expense of traditional work. The experts, including the Court, expressed reservations about the financial impact of the project; the social partners unanimously delivered a negative opinion. Employment is threatened, both in the private and public and non-market sectors. We can easily understand that. If it becomes more interesting to work at 4/5th time with challenging extra work, it will motivate full-time workers to reduce their regular working time. This distortion of the labour market will weaken the financing of social security, since a certain amount of activity will be exempt from contributing to it. Self-employed people are particularly concerned about the risk of unfair competition. Your project also competes with volunteerism. The partners of the majority of the French Community Commission, including those of DéFI of course, objected to this project, and they carried a motion in conflict of interest in the hope of fruitful consultation. It must be noted that neither the conflict-of-interest procedure nor the return of the file to a consultative committee between the entities has led to concrete progress. Without being able to block this project, we have tried to be constructive by tabling amendments to at least try to convince you of the need to limit the scope of the original law to the only sector that is clearly seeking such a development, that of sport. Our amendments provided for the possibility of extending the scope of application by royal decree to the other sectors of activity mentioned in article 24 of the original law, but on two conditions. The extension must be the subject of social consultation, and it cannot generate unfair competition. Finally, when you announced a correcting law, we kept a hope, meagre it is true, but a hope still, to see you make substantive corrections. We must have disappointed. On the contrary, this corrective law reinforces the risks of drift and unfair competition in Article 3. A deliberate decision in the Council of Ministers may increase the maximum amount of the defied monthly allowance to a maximum of EUR 1 000 per month. While the commentary to Article 3 mentions that this delegation to the King is made at the request of the federated entities, in particular the ministers responsible for sports, Article 3 mentions certain categories of associative work, without specifying which ones. Allowing challenging work of up to 1000 euros per month is a lot. This is not done lightly, in a legal blur. Statbel mentions that 50% of employees earn less than 3095 euros gross per month. I am not sure that all members of your majority are aware of this. For all these reasons, it is with great conviction that we will not vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u94	Mr President, this is indeed a correcting law, but the corrections are very slight. They're peanut corrections. As I often point out, as much as we were in favour of the application of this type of scheme in certain sectors, such as sport, so much, given the side effects, we are not in favour of such broad provisions, from all sectors. Last week, in plenary, I was still relaying the construction sector denouncing the major unfair competition brought about by this system of the 500 euro defiscalised and de(para)fiscalised which actually organizes intra-Belgian social dumping. It is positive to finally agree to lift the arrangements for youth movements. I also have no difficulty in ensuring that the system is suitable for the sports sector. We were in favour of it. But you forget other necessary corrections by insisting not to take into account the pitfalls of this law on the ground. You have put in place a penalising system for the self-employed and for small and medium-sized enterprises. This unfair competition could lead to the destruction of jobs. I regret that you have not taken the measure of this reality, nor have you taken the measure of the requests made by the governments of the federated entities for a constructive arrangement, but strictly limited, at least in the first instance. An evaluation could have followed in order to assess the desirability of expanding this mechanism. You have from the start decided to stay in a very dogmatic position. You wanted to apply it to all sectors. I'm sorry. Since these are "peashuet corrections", we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u95	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u96	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3223/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3223/6) The title was amended by the Commission in its proposal for a law amending the Law of 18 July 2018 on economic relance and the strengthening of social cohesion and the Income Tax Code 1992." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Act of 18 July 2018 on economic recovery and the strengthening of social cohesion and the Income Tax Code 1992". The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u97	Art. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 20 – Catherine Fonck (3223/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u98	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u99	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rules 2, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u100	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 5 to 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u101	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u102	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Nele Lijnen, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Egbert Lachaert, David Clarinval, Stéphanie Thoron.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, MM. Stefaan Vercamer and Wim Van der Donckt refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under consideration is not a good proposal because it completely reverses the logic of the 1971 legislation on Sunday work. The basis of labour legislation is to protect workers and, in this case, to ensure that Sunday rest is respected. This is a social achievement or rather a social "conquis" (coming from the word conquest). Today, the majority on the right rather than limiting and regulating the exceptions to Sunday rest wants to extend the work on Sundays by allowing the opening of shops every Sunday in tourist centres and seaside resorts. In 2014, the Court of Cassation handed down a ruling according to which the law must be respected by companies. In other words, the shops in question can only be opened for 13 Sundays outside the tourist season. This is why this bill introduces a legislative change according to which Sunday rest restrictions apply at the level of the individual worker rather than at the level of the enterprise. As a result, department stores will be able to open every Sunday of the year through a rotation of staff, undermining the right to Sunday rest for many workers and creating a downward spiral of competition with increasingly poor working conditions and flexibility geared towards profiting companies. But it is true that with this right-wing majority, we are accustomed to this kind of deconstruction of the social gains or "conquis" of this country. In this connection, I would like to mention the representatives of the workers who gave a negative opinion to the National Labour Council. I quote from this opinion: "It was the workers' movement that imposed Sunday rest as well as all the legislation on working time. We must not underestimate the importance of Sunday rest, to allow the vast majority of citizens in a society to spend their free time legally at the same time. This contributes to the maintenance of social cohesion. Similarly, the collective nature of Sunday rest provides precisely a mandatory laying in the week offering workers the opportunity to do things that are not possible other days, such as visiting family, meeting friends, attending a sports competition, etc. Sunday rest gives workers a space of freedom and allows them to undo, for a few moments, the feeling of being under constant pressure." The trade union organisations also mention: "In addition, the proposed law in question does not intervene at the request of the sectoral social partners concerned. Neither employers' organisations nor workers' organisations have ever made such a request in a joint committee. The members representing the workers' organisations therefore believe that no request from the sectors concerned can be kept in order to adapt the legal and regulatory framework." As you will understand, we will vote against this bill, which leads to a social decline for many workers who are increasingly struggling to find a balance between their work and their private life and – I would add this in relation to the debate on pensions – who want to work even longer in their careers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u105	Mr President, in substance, the bill that we are debating and will be voting on today has, as it goes, been extremely revised. Its original version, the one submitted by the various colleagues, was completely unbudgetable. This is because, in the face of an alleged amendment to the Sunday labour legislation which would have affected only tourist areas, it actually affected articles 13 to 17 of the 1971 Labour Act and, therefore, Sunday work in all sectors. This did not, therefore, concern only tourist areas. The National Labour Council had given its opinion and had positioned itself on the original bill. Let's be clear! If you had been obstinate in the original version of the bill, I would never have voted for it because it undermined a balanced approach to work/life balance. You have decided to significantly reduce the scope of this bill. That's the least we can say! It is true that it clarifies the way in which the limitation of the number of Sundays at the level of workers is to be understood and, in particular, so that the counting is done for each individual worker, as well as for the rest, the proposal for a law, as it stands today, only covers tourist areas and seaside resorts with the ceiling of the thirty-nine Sundays per calendar year. In view of the fact that this original draft law has been largely amputated and redrafted, given that it does not exceed thirty-nine Sundays per calendar year for each individual worker and that, moreover, the King will have the task of clarifying what he means by seaside resorts, climatic stations and tourist centres as well as the conditions of recognition, we will vote positively for this very small remaining bill which remains in relation to an initial proposal which was unacceptable. The Minister for Employment is not here, but I will still allow myself to say how much concern we have in our country's legislation. Indeed, in terms of the recognition of tourist centres, the criteria are not the same according to whether one is recognized by the FPS Economy or by the FPS Employment. In fact, today we find ourselves with tourist areas that are either recognised at the level of the SPF Employment and SPF Economy, or that are recognised on only one side, most often at the level of the SPF Economy. I think that there would be serious work to be done to revise the legislation so that tomorrow, when new applications are made or when new businesses are set up, we can avoid upuesque situations where a store can open but where, at the same time, there are no staff members who can work there, which is obviously a nonsense about legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u106	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u107	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (584/12) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (584/12) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u108	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u109	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Egbert Lachaert, David Clarinval, Stéphanie Thoron.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Stéphanie Thoron and Mr Wim Van der Donckt, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u111	Mr President, I wanted to say to the authors that it is a pity that they did not bother to consult the National Labour Council on this bill, given the various work that has been done on this subject. Both trade unions and employers' representatives could have provided their expertise on this provision and, above all, to clarify the balance to be struck between each other. This is an important issue both in terms of training and in terms of jobs that are in short supply. The fact that we have gone beyond the National Labour Council is, in my view, unjustifiable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u112	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u113	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3167/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3167/7) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u115	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3216: David Clarinval, Carina Van Cauter, Valerie Van Peel, Els Van Hoof - 1823: Olivier Maingain, Véronique Caprasse - 1867: Karine Lalieux, Laurette Onkelinx, Fabienne Winckel, Özlem Özen, Eric Massin, Julie Fernandez Fernandez - 2271: Muriel Gerkens, Evita Willaert, Georges Gilkinet, Anne Dedry, Benoit Hellings, Meyrem Almaci, Jean-Marc Nollet, Gilles Vanden Burre - 2518: Marco Van Hees, Raoul Hedebouw - 2571: Karin Jiroflée, Monica De Coninck, Annick Lambrecht, Karin Temmerman - 3059: Karin Jiroflée, Monica De Coninck, Annick Lambrecht, Karin Temmerman - 3123: Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u116	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, MM. Brotcorne and Calomne and Ms Onkelinx refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I speak to you, abortion is an offence included in the Criminal Code under one heading, which is, moreover, completely inappropriate: "Offence against the order of families and against public morality". It appears under the same heading as rape or corruption of young people and is described as follows: "Whoever, by food, drink, medicine or any other means, has caused an abortion of a woman who has consented to it shall be condemned". Since 1990, this offence is no longer punishable if it is carried out in accordance with the various conditions laid down. However, abortion remains an offence because of a difficult compromise at that time, at the cost of a serious institutional crisis. Indeed, while this debate undoubtedly concerned the right of women to dispose of their bodies, it was also a very sensitive ethical debate for many of our fellow citizens. Tomorrow, thanks to our bill, abortion will become a right that will be reflected in an autonomous and clear law. In this way, a pregnant woman may request a doctor to terminate her pregnancy if different conditions are met. Tomorrow, the abortion, practised in accordance with the legal framework, will be totally decriminalized, and the woman will no longer have to justify a state of distress - which was very stigmatizing. This reform is an additional and necessary step in favour of women's rights and individual autonomy. It is not just a symbolic text, as some would like it to grow, but the fruit of a completely different approach to abortion. This progress allows women who resort to it, for whatever reason, to no longer feel stigmatized or guilty. Abortion thus becomes a personal choice, an individual freedom. During the many debates in committee in which we had the pleasure of participating, some colleagues felt that the measure did not go far enough. Others, who are less entitled to speak in the media, considered that it goes too far. This intermediate step is, in any case, definitively acquired, whereas, since 1990, nothing had moved. Indeed, nothing had moved since 1990. Unfortunately, I cannot ignore what I have already said in committee in view of the attacks we have suffered from some members of the opposition. Under the Verhofstadt II government, has the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice made progress on this issue? No. Under Leterme I, Van Rompuy and Leterme II, has the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Public Health made progress? No. Under the Di Rupo government, has the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Public Health made progress? Neither. We were attacked massively. Therefore, it seemed to me normal to reply in this respect. You can tell me that you've dealt with other ethical issues. We were also in the majority, and we also contributed to it. But today, it is under the Michel government that a breakthrough is being made in abortion. This case was not buried, as many accused us of wanting to do. As in all ethical matters, whether it is the rights of homosexuals (marriage, adoption) or the right to euthanasia (adults, then children), step by step, in order to respect societal evolution, the legislation on abortion is liberalized. I am optimistic and firmly believe that, later, we can resume discussions, particularly with regard to the extension of time limits. In the meantime, what is acquired is acquired. Abortion becomes a right, which must be exercised within a legal framework. There was much talk of sanctions. At present, it is impossible not to provide for criminal penalties for both the doctor and the patient in cases of non-compliance with the legal framework. Otherwise, it would open the door to clandestine abortions carried out in poor conditions, or well after the legal deadline. To provide for sanctions only for doctors, as the text of the Socialist Party in particular proposes, also seems hypocritical to me. There is no reason not to put on the same footing the woman who asks for an abortion, outside the legal framework - I insist - and the doctor who agrees to do it. I would also like to recall the other important developments that are present in the proposal. There are various measures to ensure that women wishing to avail themselves of abortion are able to exercise this right in practice within the legal period. The doctor who does not wish to practice an IVG must, in addition to informing the patient from the first visit, direct her to a colleague, centre or hospital practising IVG. Another step forward is that the offence of obstruction is criminalized. Another is that the provisions of the Criminal Code, which criminalize the advertising, sale or manufacture of any means of abortion, are repealed. There are also various provisions that amend the six-day reflection period. From now on, the doctor will be able to shorten or remove it for urgent medical reasons. This urgent medical reason may be physical or psychological; no clarification is given in the proposal. This opens up different possibilities to adapt the delay to the experience of each patient. It is obviously in the singular caucus between the patient and the doctor that this decision will be made. This period is also not included within the 12-week period within which the abortion is to be carried out. Therefore, in practice, the time limit for abortion is extended by one week. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I am concerned, I will vote in favour of this text because it is synonymous with indisputable progress on a sensitive issue. At MR, we have the freedom to vote on ethical issues, I would remind you. We have often been accused of not being able to hold on to this, but it is the truth. I cannot, of course, speak on behalf of all my colleagues in the MR, since everyone will vote in his own soul and conscience. But I know that the vast majority of the group is for this decriminalization of abortion. This text reflects this decriminalization, which has been expected since 1990. I said earlier: abortion is no longer a crime, it is now a right. It represents what we call a good step forward. This is the strategy of the small steps and, therefore, I am particularly proud to say that we will vote in favour of this small step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u118	Mr Clarinval, I have a question about Members' freedom to vote, particularly those of the MR. What does this freedom mean? That there is no voting instructions, for example on amendments to your bill? Does that mean that they will not all vote, as a single block, against these amendments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u119	It is true that, for a Stalinist party, it is difficult to understand. It's not in your habits. We have the freedom to vote. I know you have to vote as one man, as the great leader told you. It's not the same with us, Mr. Van Hees. You'll see, maybe one day, you'll understand the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u120	We'll see! As my colleague said, there are only two of us in the PTB Group. We will see what is happening and whether this freedom is real.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u121	Excuse me, but I respect the order of the parties in terms of numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposal before us is very balanced. I have regretted a number of times in committee that the debate could not always take place in a serene manner. In my view, too much demagoguery has been done. When one tried to put forward certain comments, one was pushed rather quickly into the corner of the tricky conservative. I noticed this particularly when it comes to the psychosocial framework and counselling, which I believe can be very important just for women in vulnerable situations. Even that was called stigmatizing by some parties. I have the impression that the pendulum is waving a bit too far, which I often notice in ethical debates. If one says that abortion should be treated in the same way as an appointment for whitening the teeth, then I think that the woman in question is being harmed as much as if one were to defend that she is not entitled to abortion in certain situations. It is indeed more often that pendulums first go too far in one direction and then again in the other direction. It doesn't help women who get involved in abortion. That is why I support the majority agreement, which has kept the balance. It does indeed pay sufficient attention to the value of things. I do not think it would be helpful to list everything again; Mr Clarinval has done a very good job. I think it is important to keep the 12 week deadline, even if it is removed from the Criminal Code. We also support the retention of the six-day waiting period, which should not count for the term. Many testimonies have shown that women were not aware of this in advance. They did go to the center in time, but could not proceed to an abortion because of the statutory waiting period. It is certainly to be defended that this is now being resolved. The same applies to the fact that a doctor is given the duty to refer. In fact, many legal statements have already de facto led to this. Furthermore, I continue to think it is important that the legal text still allows for the psychosocial framework. Finally, I would certainly like to draw the attention of my fellow Members on the Walloon side to prevention, which they did not like to hear in committee. That is a competence of the Communities. In Flanders, there is a strong commitment to this, no matter what the abortion rates, which are much lower than in Wallonia. You said in committee that it is absolutely not a priority for you to get those figures down, but I think it is always a better scenario if we can save women from making that choice ever, than if they are happy with rising figures thanks to a legislative change. Anyway, I'll be an ambitant conservative in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my speech with a little literary detour. It is no exaggeration to say that, this year, the literary re-entry is truly under the sign of the woman; under the sign of the novelist woman, when we think of our young talents, whether from the North or the South, such as, for example, Adeline Dieudonné whose first novel The Real Life is selected for the Goncourt Prize and the Renaudot Prize; under the sign of the outrageous, harassed and raped woman, when we think that this year, the greatest literary event of the re-entry will not take place. In the wake of the Me Too movement, its revelations, its implications throughout the world, the Nobel Prize for Literature will not be awarded. Finally, this literary re-entry is to be placed under the sign of the woman object, the woman object of feminism, the woman object of communication when the release in French of the book of a Liberal Deputy Prime Minister becomes the pretext for a governmental communication exercise to defend women and feminism. It was a particularly shocking exercise that Messrs. Michel and De Croo to present the century of women, how feminism also liberates men. I will not allow myself to comment on this book. I didn't read it. I will not allow myself to comment on the almost touching admission of the late discovery of the urgency of Mr. Alexander De Croo's feminism. But I cannot remain silent when the woman becomes an object, an object of feminism and an object of communication. Women are no longer subject to feminism, but to communication. How can we argue for measures that have not been adopted by the government in which we sit, worse than the measures against which we voted? How can we tell, during a promotion show, that this friend's book is a plea that launches a strong and inspiring message – I quote the Prime Minister – when we preside over a government that has repeatedly attacked women. I recall the remarks made by my colleague, Fabienne Winckel. Should I recall that in another life Alexander De Croo was president of the Vld and ordered his troops to vote against the bill that imposed a third of women on the boards of directors? Today, he pleads, in his book, to impose 30 per cent of women on management committees. May I recall that the MR – Charles Michel was then a Member of Parliament – did not support this proposal either? But today we find the idea of an inspiring book. Do I have to remind you that in another life Alexander De Croo was Minister of Pensions in the Di Rupo government and that there were two deputy prime ministers at his side? But today, there are no women in Kern. We have to change the deal. Does Charles Michel find this also an inspiring plea, he who presides over a Kern where there are no women, while since 1999 there have always been women vice-premier ministers in the government, whether it be Verhofstadt, Leterme, Van Rompuy or Di Rupo? You all understand why I borrowed this detour by presenting in great pomp a book on feminism before addressing the serious subject of abortion. It is to remind one of the obvious: there are facts and there is communication. Whether it is in terms of access to leadership positions, parity within the government or the right to dispose of its body, liberal communication is modern. She's hype! We can say that. But the reality of their political choice, the reality of their actions has remained stuck in the past century. Look at this picture! I like to show her because she grabbed me, Mr. Clarinval. "Depenalization of abortion, a historic agreement for women". It's like an ad page for a perfume. Here's another one: two young women sharing two bottles of wine watching a sunset along the railway. Do you really think that the women who are going to get an abortion are in that situation? "Abortion, a historic agreement for women." The woman, Mr. Clarinval, is not an object of communication. Women's struggle for freedom, autonomy and equality is not based on sunset but must be translated into policies and actions. It is a lack of respect for all women to let them believe that we are fighting, that we have fought, as you have repeated here, to improve their rights and freedoms. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill you are submitting to us is not a real decriminalization of abortion, and you know that. The bill is not a historic step forward for women, Mr.Clarinval. She's not even a small step. As one editorialist said, abortion deserved better than this lie; a lie that you repeated to us in the gallery. Yes, your proposal for decriminalization is a lie. Women as a whole deserved better. Women who wished to have abortion and all those who accompanied them in that choice: doctors, nurses, planning centres, psychologists, social workers deserved better. Look at the front page of the March 30, 1990 newspaper. The German-Michielsens law has just been adopted. That, yes, is a historic day for women. It won't be today, Mr. Clarinval. There, the exaggeration was not indecent. You could have taken this one back and posted it on your site and social media pages. It was more honest than these ads of the woman-object on sunset background... because the text that you have tabled and that you are going to vote is almost a copy-paste of the past century. Colleagues, who here, in the ranks of MR - obviously Katrin Jadin and Richard Miller are not there, Philippe Goffin leaves the room - or in those of the Open Vld, CD&V or N-VA, says that this text really decriminalizes abortion? Are criminal sanctions still provided for women who have abortions outside the conditions you have specified? Is there still, for example, when the woman forgot to write her will to abort? For doctors who practice abortion outside the conditions or who would not have forgotten to tell a patient that she can resort to adoption? Because abortion takes place at fourteen weeks because a woman was raped or because a undocumented woman was pregnant? Thirty years after the adoption of the Lallemand-Michielsens law, Mr.Clarinval, you maintain the penal sanctions for a woman who is aborted after 12 weeks and who has not written black on white that she wanted to have an abortion. That is the reality of what you are going to vote today. There are progressives in this majority, but less than we believe. They made a deal with the conservative forces. Mr Bracke, I know that you are not a conservative force, I hope. We will see your vote later. I can quote Mr Dewael who is absent, Mrs Van Cauter, Mrs Jadin who is also absent. This is Mr. Miller (...) If it is on these arguments that the debate is taking place, Mrs. Fonck... I have debated for a long time with Mrs Jadin, and with Mr Clarinval, who agreed rather with our position, I like to say it again. Since Mr Miller is here, I am speaking to him: by voting this law, you are going to stand on the bench of the Conservatives, thirty after the Lallemand-Michielsens law. Thirty years after this law, the Liberals say to the judiciary: prosecute, punish and imprison those who abort, and those who practice abortion outside the conditions laid down in 1990. Mr Verherstraeten is not here either. Mr Clarinval, yes or no, is there a risk of criminal penalties for a woman who presents herself after a 12-week period and who is being aborted? Is she still facing a prison sentence? Yeah, and the doctors, too. And the most serious thing is that your majority is giving a new signal to the judiciary with the text that it is going to vote tonight. You say again: pursue, punish, imprison. You know Me Hirsch well. What does this great criminalist say? "With this law, what would prevent tomorrow a prosecutor from prosecuting again, since the legislator has the will to reaffirm that abortion is an offence? Nothing, of course." That's why the lawyer asks you not to vote what could revive the machine. She expressed her fear that, for example, a partner might have taken a civil action to prosecute her partner, who would have aborted her without her consent, by finding any of the conditions that would not have been met. Mr. Hirsch is not the only criminalist who has stepped up to denounce this criminal law. Many other great criminalists denounce her. I am referring in particular to Me Buyle or Me Kennes, who said that they were shocked by this law which they described as a farce, which they described as a dishonest lie, and who wondered about the role of criminal punishment and the meaning of the threat of a prison sentence in this sensitive issue of abortion. You know these lawyers, Mr. Goffin. One of them was even an expert for Mr. Geens on the reform of the Criminal Code. Do you think they are wrong when they say that it is not decriminalisation, you who are chairman of the Committee on Justice? Do you think the risk of prosecution is anything but zero? Do you prefer to join the analysis of your colleague and group leader who has just intervened? He says: "I think we understand that the legislator's tendency is not to pursue." He adds: "I rely on the common sense of our judges and encourage them not to prosecute." Mr. Goffin, you see your role as legislator in this way: I pass a standard and I plan fines and prison sentences in black and white, but if we do not respect it, if a woman or a doctor does not respect it, I say to the judge: "Close your eyes. Don't go on! Don't punish!" I think that's not what you think, but you can't say it. Do all the parliamentarians who will support this text have so much contempt for their work, do they have so much contempt for the judges whom they ask not to respect the law - that is what Mr Clarinval is asking - simply because this law is, and you know very well, a bargaining that is just a communication exercise? Above all, do you have such contempt for women? In 2018, at the request of the Centre d'Action Layique, a survey had been carried out by the ULB and the University of Hasselt on the decriminalization of the IVG. His conclusions were clear: 75% of Belgians were in favour of total decriminalization of abortion; 75% wanted to put abortion in a "health law". This investigation supported us in the choice of submitting a text that completely decriminalized abortion, as you know. I am replying to Messrs. Clarinval and Miller chanting, "You haven't done anything for thirty years!"
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u124	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u125	It is not because we are in opposition that we have tabled a text. But rather because, all over the world and also in Europe, conservative movements and churches are regaining power and morals, attacking individual freedoms and threatening what we were taking for granted, including women's freedom and the right to abortion. That is why we have now tabled this text. We wanted to decriminalize abortion completely because we see it as a medical act. And we were afraid - the news gives us reason - that some prefer to give abortion a moral meaning, to place it in a convictional approach. I'm not a believer. It's all my business. I respect all beliefs. I don't see abortion as an attack on life. I see abortion only as the woman's right to dispose of her body and control her desire for a child. I respect those who think otherwise. Everyone has their own beliefs, but I stand up against those who want to take away every woman's right to decide freely. And that's what you do. We don't force anyone to have an abortion. We simply guarantee the conditions to allow every woman to exercise her freedom. You deny it to them by your law! We have been asking since May 2016 for this topic to be put on the agenda. Our position was clear: more criminal sanctions against women and doctors. I will not be insulted to repeat everything that has been said in the Committee on Justice. The main thing, contrary to what has been said, is that we have had calm debates and that we have been able to hear some 20 experts. It was their comments before the Committee on Justice that changed our position. Thus, with DéFI, the PTB, Ecolo-Groen and sp.a, we again tabled a bill that took into account the comments of the experts. In fact, unlike Mr.Clarinval, in the new situation, on such sensitive ethical issues, the time has been taken to listen and look for a path on which the greatest number of people could find themselves. I will quote a representative of Women's Life. Women's life is not a socialist association, it is close to the CSC. She asked the elected representatives to go beyond the debate on the pros and cons of the exit of the IVG from the Criminal Code. If exit is an important symbol, it will not be enough to improve in practice the lives of women affected by abortion. It is essential that the current discussions also focus on measures such as shortening the time frame for reflection and delay for pregnancy or accompanying women, otherwise this evolution will only be symbolic and will not change much in the real difficulties faced by women. Carine Vrancken, of the LUNA asbl, felt in committee that removing abortion from the Penal Code without at the same time changing the conditions related to abortion makes no sense. An annual change in conditions would have an impact on some 20,000 women. We have therefore moved our bill forward. While the vast majority of women (79%) who wish to terminate pregnancy require abortion in the first few weeks of pregnancy, some women are not aware of their condition so early. Others do not have direct access to the information and care needed to end unwanted pregnancy. Consequently, 500 000 women are forced to ask the Netherlands or England to take care of them, which has a considerable cost and is therefore not accessible to all women. As Carine Vrancken mentioned, the policy of ostrich practiced in Belgium must be adopted and the deadline should therefore be extended to allow women who so wish to terminate an unwanted pregnancy in Belgium. Pascal Borry of the KU Leuven considered it important, during the hearings, to offer a perspective of care to women who are currently obliged to travel abroad. And to quote the Swedish model, which provides for 18 weeks. We're talking about the Leuven KU, not the ULB or the VUB. A valid argument in favour of extending the deadline would be that it is mainly vulnerable and less privileged women who do not realize in time that they are pregnant and who face the most problems today to abort in Belgium. We therefore asked to extend the deadline to 18 weeks. The amendments are still on the table. We also called for the elimination of all laius related to abortion and other possibilities. Indeed, in our view, the woman who makes the decision to abort the fact knowingly and is free to dispose of her body. Moreover, the head of the adoption services of Flanders, Ariane Van den Berghe, recalled during her hearing that informing women who wished to have an abortion about the possibilities of adoption of the unborn child was sometimes paternalistic conditions – which you keep – sometimes out of the question and, in any case, obsolete. So is your text. We then pleaded for the application of the patient's law to persons undergoing an IVG. As abortion is a medical procedure, the usual information must be communicated to the patient. It was also up to physicians to ensure that the decision was made prior to the medical action. As Mr. Jean-Jacques Amy had mentioned at his hearing, the abortion falls within the scope of public health and must be regulated in the same way as the other components of the field. As for the time limit for reflection, we continue to propose forty-eight hours. No country – even Ireland, which has just voted for the decriminalisation of abortion under certain conditions – foresees such a long delay. There is no time limit for reflection in Ireland. Remember what literature tells us and what we were told about it in committee. This delay has a heavy impact on women. I'm not saying it. MM. Pascal Borry, of the KUL, and Michel Dupuis, of the UCL, speak of therapeutic harassment by evoking the period of reflection, when others still evoke a real torture. This is what you continue to inflict on women: a real torture, a pain of therapy. And it is the doctors of all hospitals and schedules who say so. The majority of speakers said that women made their decision when they became aware of the results of their pregnancy test, thus before the medical consultation. The six-day delay is a difficult or even infantilizing and paternalistic test. We understand that you are and that you remain. Currently, the law provides that medical interruption of pregnancy may occur when it is certain, as you know, Mrs Van Cauter, that the unborn child will be affected by a condition of particular gravity, recognized as incurable at the time of diagnosis. The hearings also highlighted the inadequacy of the terminology used. The Higher Council of Health itself considered that the notion of high risk, of a particular severity of the unborn child or of an affection recognized as incurable was more appropriate. Mrs Van Cauter, you have spoken several times in the debate, and this is indicated in the report, in order to highlight this problem. But, alas, there too, you have not been able to convince the conservative majority. Finally, our bill, as well as our amendments, really aimed at decriminalizing abortion, i.e. eliminating all criminal sanctions. You maintain the same criminal sanctions as in 1990. Thirty years later, you're in exactly the same pattern. We had proposed from the outset that we should not have criminal penalties for women or doctors. The proposal we have tabled with the progressive opposition provides for sanctions for doctors because it is a consensus. Mrs Van Cauter, I still have a disappointment with you but also with the Open Vld Group, which has always been at the forefront of ethical debates. I must thank him for being at the forefront of these struggles, but not today. I am talking about the Open Vld because the MR has always been more mixed in these debates. Mrs Van Cauter, you and your group leader have published a carte blanche in De Morgen. You say: "Yes, politics is the art of what is feasible. Sometimes you have to count the heads." You say you chose the Conservative camp to get mini-advances, because you didn't have an alternative. This shows that freedom of vote and conscience is very far away. Mrs Van Cauter and Mr Dewael – you have also signed the White Paper – as I said in committee, there is a majority in this House to take a real step forward. And you know it well. You know, doing politics is not accepting bargaining. We've seen the bargain. We know what is on the agenda of the Justice Committee. It is not to accept bargaining, but rather the art of finding compromises. A compromise. We ourselves have found a compromise with the progressive opposition parties. We ourselves have tried to move forward with everyone. We ourselves have tried to tell you that it is still time to give everyone real freedom. And today, if we are counting, we still have a majority in this Parliament not to vote on the proposal put on the table, or at least to vote on the amendments proposed by the progressive opposition. PS, sp.a, Ecolo-Groen, Challenge and the PTB total 52 Members, if we are all present, what we hope. It would be sufficient for an additional 24 Members to join the text. Twenty-four voices, I think it would be so easy to find if you had your complete freedom. If you dare to free yourself from the conservative carcan of the N-VA and CD&V, the total decriminalization of abortion for women could be a reality tomorrow. The Liberal family has 34 elected members of the House. We know that the whole Open Vld could vote in favour of these amendments, for a real decriminalisation of abortion. For having talked to a lot of people, Mr.Clarinval, and having debated with some who are unfortunately not in session, many at the MR really wanted decriminalization. If you gave them freedom, we would have a majority in this Parliament. Since I am talking about freedom to vote, it is a pity that the Prime Minister did not stay. But I understand it. When it comes to substantive debates, it is little there. Charles Michel is deaf or submissive. The N-VA group leader looks at me with intensity. I think Charles Michel is rather submissive. It is up to him to free the deputies of his majority from the states of soul of certain members of his government, as Wilfried Martens, Guy Verhofstadt and Elio Di Rupo had done before him. Indeed, since the law on abortion adopted in 1990, since those regulating euthanasia or its extension to minors, marriage and adoption for homosexual couples, in ethical matters, freedom of vote has always prevailed. The Members have always spoken out in soul and conscience. In 1990, Mr Martens, then Prime Minister, shared the position of the bishops who saw the Lallemand-Michielsens proposal as an act that radically compromised the right to life at the initial stage. But he recalls in his memoirs that, since his government had made it a question of conscience, every parliamentarian had to vote in soul and conscience. The MR group leader, at the time, said nothing else when he said, on the day of the vote in the House, that his party had always not only programmed, but objectively implemented the essential need for full independence of expression in matters relating to freedom of conscience. Each of the Liberal parliamentarians was able to vote according to their deep convictions. And every time since then, this total freedom has been reaffirmed by the liberal tenors at the start of every ethical vote. Charles Michel himself, at the time MP, before voting against the opening of the adoption to homosexual couples, recalled that in the MR, each parliamentarian, in his soul and conscience, would individually express through his vote his personal conviction in the context of the eminently ethical debate. He voted against it, and he had the freedom to do so. It is an element that characterizes us and it seemed useful to us to highlight it clearly. What a step backwards today, Mr. Clarinval! What a step backwards, Mr. Michel! One can only note that the Michel government completely corsed the debate, where even Wilfried Martens had left freedom of conscience. The Verhofstadt I and II and Di Rupo governments had put ethical issues at the heart of parliamentary freedom, while Charles Michel's permanent pledge to the N-VA prevented him from deploying his authority as prime minister and allowing freedom to prevail over a political veto emanating from one or more members of his majority, even in the case of debates whose stakes were the subject of ethics and individual freedoms. Today, it is the states of soul of a minority of ministers and parliamentarians of the majority of Charles Michel who, because they are humanly struck by abortion, as has been said, prevent a majority of parliamentarians from actually decriminalizing the abortion and allowing an expansion of its conditions of practice that meet both the demand of women, doctors and experts. I read what Mr Geens said in La Libre Belgique. He is right to the point and welcomes the majority's agreement that you will vote. He particularly welcomed the fact that Parliament had not been able to work freely. Indeed, he has personal difficulties with the IVG, just like his party and part of the N-VA. Ladies and gentlemen of the MR, when, under Verhofstadt and Di Rupo, the ministers Verwilghen and Onkelinx, but also the ministers Verhofstadt and Di Rupo themselves were in favour of homosexual marriage or adoption for homosexual couples, or the extension of euthanasia to minors, you were happy not to be obliged to follow the government. Indeed, a majority of the MR did not vote for adoption for homosexual couples. You were happy to vote mostly against adoption for homosexual couples. I ask you today, once again, to leave this freedom. Here, as civil society goes in the diametrically opposite direction to the text on the table, you stand as one man behind the hard wing of the N-VA, behind the CD&V and behind the cdH. Have you heard our colleague, Mr Lutgen, the president of the CDH, who was on television on Sunday: "We cannot say like the PS that we have eight or seven months and that there will be no prosecution"? What a bad faith! What a contempt for women! But there was no doubt about that. Finally, the Michel government imposed silence on the freedom of conscience of MPs of the MR-N-VA majority. The Michel government dared to consolidate a fundamental right of women in a majority agreement. The Michel government knelt in the face of the refusal to advance a minority of parliamentarians composed of the Flemish Christian Party and part of the N-VA and thus refused to listen to civil society and women in particular. You lack courage and freedom, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal family, ladies and gentlemen of this majority, and it is the right of women who lose. Mr. Clarinval, I'll finish it and you can intervene later. Let me send a message to the Prime Minister! If Charles Michel was a prime minister of full power, he would not defend women's rights, he would not be interested in feminism only in campaigns to promote a book. If he were a full-fledged prime minister, he would have let Parliament work freely in soul and conscience, and we would have found a large majority, I am sure, to really decriminalize abortion. The women would have come out winning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u126	Mr President, I have stoically listened to Mrs Lalieux's remarks and to the violence with which she spoke. We had already heard his particularly violent remarks in committee. I hear "the lies, the pranks, the backwards, the contempt," and I want to retaliate to him two things. First, do you think the following six points are pranks, lies, contempt, or hindsight? The removal of distress; the removal or shortening of the period of reflection in the caucus with the doctor; the period of reflection outside 12 weeks; the criminalization of the obstacle; the abrogation of the criminalization of advertising; the removal of the Penal Code, which makes abortion a right today and no longer an offence. I ask you to respond without digressions or caricatures of the text we have presented. Secondly, I explained earlier, and I told the press, that the MR Group has the freedom to vote. You keep making it look like you're not. You've done the exegesis, even at times the psychoanalysis of Liberal MPs. Think you've heard them all in a singular caucus. I repeat: the Liberals in the MR have the freedom to vote. I know it's not the same in you, and it probably surprises you. But I do not accept that you give us lessons of freedom about this! What you're saying is not true. We have the freedom to vote and I would like you to stop saying the opposite. Now I would like you to answer my question: do you consider these six elements to be a setback and a farce, a contempt or a lie?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u127	Mr. Clarinval, first of all, when I speak of farce, dishonest lie...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u128	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u129	But let me answer it! I'm not saying it. Every time I used these expressions, they were in quotation marks. Read the press articles and the criminalists - for example, Mr Hirsch - who analysed your text. Also read the press releases of all associations and their good lawyers. All these words, I didn't make them up. I find that your communication is a typical lie. Similarly, this proposal is not a step forward. The mere fact of maintaining sanctions against women is a shame. Today, a woman who gets an abortion after 12 weeks - except, perhaps, under certain conditions - is in the same situation as in 1990. Where do you see the step forward? You will even, and you have retained it, impose the torment of an explanation. All the experts, Mr.Clarinval, said that talking about adoption and the possibility of welcoming a woman who wanted to have an abortion was scandalous and that they did not even do so. The doctors told us in committee that they did not respect the law. Now you reinsert these conditions into the law, Mr. Clarinval! It's a shame! Six days of reflection? Let's talk about it! They're being held. You know very well that they will be, since the majority of women have abortions within the first seven weeks. This means that 97% of them will retain this shameful deadline. You know that very well! There may be one thing: the right to be obstructed. That's right! This has nothing to do with it. It was not with this that women had the most problems. There are few barriers to abortion. You must definitely stop and take responsibility for what you have done. What you did, Mr.Clarinval, with all the Liberals, is just repeating and numbing the 1990 law. Nothing has changed for women. Abortion is no longer in the Penal Code, I grant it to you. But you haven't even reduced the prison and fine penalties. It's really taking women for fools! Compared to the Liberals, no, I have not done any psychology or psychoanalysis with all of your members. Except that civil society has been holding debates for three years and I have had the chance to discuss with Mrs Jadin, Mr Calomne and others. And we were side by side. The questions posed by the various associations were very clear. There is even a vocal recording. So we can make you hear it. Very clearly, they said "decrease in time". They said "increased weeks." They also said "more punishment for women". That's also what Mrs Jadin said. If she was there, I don't think she'd say otherwise. That is also what Mr Calomne said and, if he were here, he would not say otherwise. When, on the phone with journalists of the daily Le Soir - or you accuse them of lying - we are told that fifteen members of the MR are in favour of the proposal to increase the weeks, to reduce the delay, to not penalise women... But let them vote, Mr Clarinval! You can vote for your proposal, you have defended it enough, you are convinced. Vote it! But let your fifteen members vote on our amendments. You don't, Mr. Clarinval. We'll see you later! I have reviewed all ethical votes since 1990, especially those that have been cited (adoption, marriage of homosexual couples, euthanasia and extension of euthanasia to minors). The votes of the MR group were the most dispersed votes. There were pros, there were cons, there were abstentions. If there is real freedom to vote, I hope there will be a balance between pros, abstentions and cons. That's your freedom to vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u130	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, during the abortion debate in the Chamber, there were testimonies from various women who had had an abortion in De Standaard. A woman very well summarized the complexity of such an abortion decision. She said: "The idea of an abortion went against my nature, but it seemed too stressful to start a family on my own. An abortion is always proposed as the decision of the woman, but it is not quite. If my friend or my parents had promised their support for a pregnancy, I would have kept my baby." Another woman said, "I made the right decision to carry out abortion, but I had underestimated its impact." Colleagues, these testimonies illustrate what we all feel intuitive about: abortion is not a week-to-day medical treatment. This was also endorsed by the various experts during the hearings. It is a far-reaching decision, which requires the necessary professional support. I think we all agree on that. Some even wanted to extend it, try the amendments that have been tabled. The testimonies also show that women who are unwantedly pregnant talk about it with very few people around them. This makes professional guidance of such difficult choices extra important. So we must not banish abortion. The threshold for seeking help must, of course, be very low, but we must not imagine the choice of abortion as something that one quickly decides, as one makes a tooth. Colleagues, the proposal before us by the majority is not a black and white story. It's not a story for or against abortion. It is a balanced proposal, covering the complexity of the various interests and striking a good balance between the protection of unborn life and the right to self-determination of women. The CD&V Group supports the proposal for several reasons. Firstly, it is very important that women should no longer be stigmatized by incorporating abortion into an autonomous law. Another important point, which is hardly mentioned here, is that the emergency situation has been removed from the law. At the same time, we are ensuring that abortion is not banned. The criminal sanctions are retained, which exist for every legislation. In other countries too, sanctions are retained. The 12-week period for voluntary termination of pregnancy and termination of pregnancy for medical reasons after that period shall be maintained. That's not random. Mrs. Lalieux cited an expert, but we spoke to almost 20 experts. Twenty experts gave 20 different opinions. I've got it all figured out. Nine experts felt that the period should be extended to 14, 16 or 18 weeks. Eight experts did not comment on this. Three experts were radically opposed. We have to be correct. Therefore, if one claims that we voted in committee for the 18-week period, because the experts considered it necessary, that is a misrepresentation of the facts. There is no scientific basis to extend the deadline to 18 weeks, as the opposition suggested. That was not scientifically substantiated in the hearings either. There was also much to do about the six-day reflection period. We consider it important to ensure that women can make a decision in all serenity and without pressure. That's what happens. We need to protect the most vulnerable in this. What is new is that we allow exceptions for medical and emergency reasons, when the 12 week deadline is reached. We're behind that. In short, we think it is a balanced and good proposal which we will support. However, like Mrs van Peel, we believe that much more should be done to prevent this. It is aberrant that after 50 years of contraception 20 000 abortions are carried out every year. In other countries this is much less. Another important aspect is medical aftercare, psychosocial support, after a woman has had an abortion. Testimonies showed that there is an important, profound impact on the body. The body's gonna give up the surgery. A witness noted that she only had a normal cycle after six months. Some couples go through a grieving process and suffer from guilt and regret. We have to take that into account. That is why we want to support the idea that those involved should be able to rely on professional guidance after abortion. Finally, after more than six years, last month the National Evaluation Committee finally came together. One wonders what's behind it that it took six years to evaluate a very important ethical law. Moreover, I do not believe that there is any evaluation in the National Evaluation Committee. She collects some statistics, she does some monitoring. It depends on data provided by clinics and abortion centres, which are not really reliable. What our group is advocating is that an evaluation, which is scientific, should take place every five years. This would allow for a more thorough debate today, which would improve the quality of the legislation. In short, we hope that if the debate is ever repeated, we will be able to speak on the basis of scientific data and not on the basis of gut feelings or ideological instincts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the Chamber will decide that abortion is partly removed from criminal law. Of course, that seems to be a good thing. I'm putting the emphasis on the word seems. 28 years old is the abortion law in our country. In 1990 abortion was partially depenalized, as a compromise, I always say. A number of conditions were described under which the termination of pregnancy is not a crime and therefore not a criminal offence. In view of the problem, these are guidelines and procedures for the assistance and possible treatment of unwanted pregnant women. And no, it doesn't belong in the penal code. The right of women to choose whether or not to continue a pregnancy should be explicitly decoupled from the concept of crime and the related moral concept of guilt and certainly guilt. However, this depenalisation in its present form, in the current legislative proposal, is only a sign of bleeding, an attempt to stop the discussion, which has been going on for several years now, in the hope that the spirit will remain in the bottle for a while. That, ladies and gentlemen, is an historically missed opportunity. For example, a missed opportunity to reduce the cooling-off period to 48 hours instead of the current six days. Before they come to an abortion center, women have already thought about it. They may have already talked to their doctor, any partner, family or married people. They may have already weighed it up a few hundred times. The current legislation obliges them to wait six days after a detailed exchange of views at the abortion centre as well as a review of the situation. A needlessly stretching of a particularly difficult period in a woman's life. Let women decide how much time they need after that important step to the abortion center and bring the minimum time back to 48 hours. The other chance we leave here is to provide a solution for women in a very vulnerable situation. Every year the centres see about 500 women who, for whatever reason, have waited too long to seek help. The reasons for this are different. They have almost all in common that they are in a very fragile situation. It is often about women facing enormous difficulties, often at a time when there is a lot of things going wrong in their lives. We are now sending those vulnerable women to the Netherlands where they are having an abortion. Luckily, this is not always done without psychosocial assistance and without reimbursement of their medical costs. Just those who need us the most, we send away and abandon. We could solve this by extending the deadline for abortion to 18 weeks, albeit in a specialised centre, where women receive additional medical and psychosocial support and are given extra support. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium has some of the lowest rates of abortion, partly because we pay attention to a good knowledge of contraception. Experts confirm that this would remain the case with our proposals. With our proposals, we would just make sure that women in a difficult situation call for help even more quickly. If abortion is properly arranged, the number decreases. This is proven everywhere by the figures. In our country, on the other hand, we are opting for a half-hearted solution, which is not a solution. Here in our country it seems to be chosen to impose the ideology of one group. I'd like to talk to you about that for a moment. For years now, in the hemisphere, it has been the tradition of voting freely and in conscience on ethical issues and freely following our own consciences. What is suddenly happening as a result of this abortion dossier? I would just like to add that the whole progressive legislation we have on euthanasia, holebi's and that's more, is due to that tradition of allowing Members to vote in honour and conscience. What is suddenly happening as a result of the current abortion debate? There's no substantive discussion and nothing serene debate. A society vision of one group is forced upon us here. The vision of women's personal integrity is imposed by one particular group and ideology. The debate on personal choices and on physical and mental integrity cannot take place here in Parliament openly and freely. The abortion debate is being reduced to a game of majority against opposition. Colleagues, I am ashamed because I have to play against my will in this game. How low can we fall? Each of us should be ashamed to be part of the down-to-earth wells-nothing in which this debate has been degenerate. Finally, for us, self-determination of women over their own bodies is fundamental. The duty of the government to ensure quality preventive and curative health care for all is equally fundamental. However, these principles are far removed in this debate. That is why we will vote against this proposal. We do that with pain in the heart because we could have made history. However, you, the majority, have chosen not to do so. Actually, I hope you're awake tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question arises as to who benefits from disagreement. I am fundamentally convinced that what binds us socially allows us to move forward. Ethical progress has always been achieved in our country through progressive steps. I am thinking here of the fight for women's rights. It was accompanied by steady successes, progress and sometimes also setbacks, but also by the courage to persevere. Before the gay marriage, there was legal cohabitation for gays and lesbians. After the gay marriage, the right to adoption was granted to persons of the same sex. Then we had the law on euthanasia. That right was then extended to all those who are competent to decide, including minors. Step by step, our country has obtained the most liberal laws that fully respect the individual's right to self-determination. The liberals - mainly women - have worked for this emancipation. I am aware that this did not happen on its own. When I think back to the law on the termination of pregnancy, which came about thanks to a proposal by Mrs Lucienne Herman-Michielsens, I am convinced that she too has had to show a great deal of patience. For more than 12 years, it has had to build a consensus and majorities on deep ideological differences over several legislative hours. It was, like us, strengthened by organizations and people, who were even more on the barricades for feminist values, for equal treatment and for freedom of thought and action, in which man is at the centre. I am aware that it takes courage to put what is often unfeasible on the table and make it possible to do so. This is a pioneering role that we often have to fulfil. As Liberals, therefore, we have not hesitated to put on the table, outside the coalition agreement, and I would like to acknowledge that with regard to my fellow Members of the majority, a well-thought-out proposal that provided for the further liberalization of the right to termination of pregnancy. This proposal gave rise to interesting hearings, which generally advocated further modernisation of the abortion law. University experts, of whom we did not expect it, such as the KUL, made a clear plea for a longer term. The social and scientific question for enlargement was clear in Parliament, but, as I said in committee, politics is often the art of the feasible. We opted for a solution that makes an important intermediate step. Moreover, it is to the credit of the majority of Members that they have sat around the table on our question in order to put forward a proposal which explicitly recognises abortion as a right: the right of women, taking the termination of pregnancy completely out of the criminal sphere. The legislative proposal is indeed a step forward in several respects. The woman must no longer accept that she is in an emergency in order to be able to exercise abortion. No more explaining why; the deliberate will of the woman suffices. The condition of the emergency situation is once and for all past tense. As far as the six-day reflection period is concerned, I hear colleagues saying that there was no thought and no progress was made. However, I would like to stress that the period of reflection is completely removed if there are medical reasons for doing so. If in certain circumstances it is untenable and unfeasible for a woman to wait further before the interruption, she can be helped immediately. In addition, these six days are added to the 12-week period, so that the de facto time limit for the termination of pregnancy is thirteen weeks. In this way we offer help to those who are late to consult a doctor. They too will be able to be helped. I hear some of you in the gallery saying that this is a tissue for bleeding and does not mean real progress. However, in 25% of the cases, women who cannot go to our country today will be able to be helped in the future. As many as 25% of women who are not being helped today find themselves in a situation in which they effectively allow a doctor to be consulted. Well, in the future there will be that 25% help. We also introduce the duty of referral. If a doctor doesn't want to have an abortion, we don't want to force or impose an abortion, then he has to refer it to a doctor who wants to or can do it. There will even be a punishment for those who prevent the woman from going to the place where an abortion can be carried out legally. What used to be a crime is today a law guaranteed right and guaranteed freedom. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is real progress. Some claim, even today, that the depenalisation is only a sham because the bill still provides for criminal provisions. We do not follow this reasoning and do not agree with that criticism. To date abortion has still been included in our Criminal Code and there is only a punishment ground for those who meet the legal conditions. In the future this will no longer be the case, in the sense that those who meet the legal criteria will no longer have to rely on any grounds of punishment alone but will have the right to have an abortion. No more culpabilising. Guilt is in the past from now on. The fact that there are still sanctions against those who go beyond the legal conditions is quite normal. After all, without sanctions, we would take a step backwards and go back to situations where thousands, tens of thousands of women died because they were having abortion in an unsafe way. That is a risk we do not want to take. Moreover, without sanctions, we would allow abortion to take place far beyond the viable deadline, and we cannot tolerate that. I'll come to the evaluation. Is it a tissue for the bleeding? Is it a punitive step in the right direction? Is it the most liberal law that we are going to vote on today? I'll leave that in the middle. Ladies and gentlemen, I am positive because this proposal will at least ensure that abortion becomes a right for women and is no longer included in the Criminal Code and that legislation is modernised in many other areas. Taking abortion out of the Criminal Code makes it possible to move forward in the future. In committee, too, we have separated our legislative proposal from what we will endorse and approve today. A step in the right direction, away from criminal connotation. We'll never let go of our ideas. It is therefore well-considered and very conscious that we should be able to speak for my group as a whole as a progressive party ready to take another step in the right direction in a subsequent period, a step which will further protect women's rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u133	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Van Cauter for her honesty and sincerity. I do not analyze the law in the same way as it was, and our bill did not go beyond the threshold of viability. She said what Mr. Clarinval has denied for weeks. She said that this was feasible and feasible within the framework of this majority and that there was no desire to vote with an alternative majority, as was the case, for example, for the extension of euthanasia to minors or for the adoption of homosexual couples. For that, Mrs Van Cauter, thank you very much. You've always been an honest woman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u134	Mrs Lalieux, I think you have only partially understood me. When I said that we were looking for what was most feasible today, I mean that, when it comes to ethical issues, we need to ensure a broad consensus in society and that it is not a question of imposing its will on a minority as a majority. Many Members in the hemisphere would like to go far beyond the present legislative proposal, but we are sure that this proposal will be widely supported, perhaps even by the 150 Members who will vote. At least we will have realised that, at least we will have made a law that will also be carried out outside the hemisphere by a broad layer of the population, and that was our aim.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u135	Mrs Van Cauter, you know that there is a societal majority on this subject, whereas this is not the case with regard to the extension of euthanasia to minors. Eighty per cent of the Belgian population wanted a health law and more sanctions for women. Eighty percent! That is much more than all the ethical votes we have taken. You know that very well! For adoption for same-sex couples, this percentage was also not reached. The experts all agreed on the 18 weeks. There is therefore a good social consensus. But the majority wanted to be united on this issue. So it's united that you're going to vote and I'm sorry. Indeed, it will take 30 years for the twelve weeks to be exceeded. This is unacceptable to women! It is a defiance of them! Today, women are really losing!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u136	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what is before us today is a missed opportunity for us. It is a missed opportunity to give women in need better care guidance. After all, no woman chooses abortion lightly. They are the most vulnerable and disadvantaged women who would benefit most from improvements and changes to the law. The many hearings have shown strong support from experts and civil society organisations to support a number of proposals from the Ecolo-Green Bill. I am thinking, for example, of the extension to 16 weeks instead of the current 12 weeks, with the possibility of having abortion after this period if the psychosocial condition of women is a serious obstacle to the continuation of pregnancy. Another example is shortening the cooling-off period to 48 hours instead of 6 days. Or, still, limiting the punishment to doctors in case of non-compliance with the conditions and not targeting the women themselves. Our group can therefore only call this a missed opportunity. The present legislative proposal of the majority does not include a number of essential points for improvement. However, we also see a number of cautious positive steps. What does our agreement deserve? Firstly, the proposal repeals the current articles of the Criminal Code relating to voluntary abortion and converts them into a special law. That's a good thing. You have indeed listened here to what has come out of the hearings. Secondly, although the proposal is somewhat 'cheeky' - the reflection period if the woman is agitated by the 12-week period. Let me call this a mouse step forward. The obligation to provide information, which is included separately and not in the Patients' Rights Act, is also a step forward. Finally, does this bill respond to what women in need of abortion and care providers expect? No. Is it a first mouse step in the right direction? Yes, but it remains a missed opportunity for women in need, especially for the most vulnerable. That is why I will abstain. This is an ethical matter. Any member of our group may decide how he or she votes. We will therefore vote in a mixed way, but we know that Ecolo-Green will certainly come back to this in another legislature. I can do better than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u137	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to interrupt the debate earlier, but, for listening to what they have said, I would like to recall here, out of respect for the people concerned, that among the experts heard in committee and more broadly among civil society actors, there is no single common position on how to make this specific law on voluntary termination of pregnancy. There is no single common position on how to remove the IVG from the Criminal Code. As you know, we have tabled a bill in this area. We support the removal of the voluntary termination of pregnancy from the Criminal Code, as it is very meaningful to consider it in the same way as rape or murder. To place the voluntary termination of pregnancy in the Criminal Code in crimes and offences against family order and public morality is also particularly important. From the beginning, we are in favour of a separate and specific law separate from the Criminal Code. On the other hand, we reiterated that we absolutely wanted to maintain strict controls and conditions on this specific law concerning the voluntary termination of pregnancy. Among these conditions, there is this 12-week time limit that we believe is a reasonable time frame. As a reminder, the majority of GVI occur well before 12 weeks (97% in the first 12 weeks and 89% in the first 8 weeks). Another beacon seems important to us: these are the reasons why an interruption of pregnancy could occur after 12 weeks. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, medical interruptions of pregnancy, for serious medical reasons that affect either the woman or the foetus, are allowed today at any stage of pregnancy, even until the very end of pregnancy. It is for us something that it is important to maintain, and it is. Whether it is in our bill or in the bill we are now debating, medical interruptions of pregnancy, for serious medical reasons affecting either the woman or the fetus, will be allowed at any stage of pregnancy. Maintaining clear beacons is also a means of ensuring that these beacons are respected. In this case, we are not in favour of making the abortion an unconditional right of the woman – I am not talking about the first 12 weeks of pregnancy – by allowing a voluntary termination of pregnancy, without medical reasons, at any time of pregnancy. To enforce this, it is important to maintain criminal sanctions in case of voluntary termination of pregnancy without medical reasons after 12 weeks. For those who consider that it would be non-respectful for women to maintain criminal sanctions after 12 weeks, I would like to point out that in a wide range of legislation (they are extremely numerous), when the law provides for obligations or prohibitions, it enforces them by penal sanctions. That is how it is in all areas of life, and even in the area of privacy, whether it is in the areas that affect families, in the areas of security, social law, and I am going through it. To make it an unconditional right of women, to abolish penal sanctions when conditions are not met – when an abortion occurs after 12 weeks without medical reasons – is to open the door to a voluntary termination of pregnancy at any time. We are not in favour of it. Interruption of pregnancy is not a medical act like any other. We don't consider him a medical act like another. I am not going to go back to the discussions that have already taken place in committee. As far as I'm concerned, I've always been careful to stay on the substantive argument. I find it troubling certain types of debate which give the impression that we no longer have the right to express a position different from our interlocutors, under the penalty of being treated as retrograde, obscurantist, and I pass by. It is easy to lock one or the other in a reductive label rather than answer arguments on the merits. Two points still deserve attention. First, when a voluntary termination of pregnancy occurs, whether voluntary or medical, it is important that psychosocial support, before, during and after, in addition to medical support, be available to the woman or families concerned, so that abortion can be carried out under the best possible conditions. Secondly, I would like to address the majority, regretting that even today, in terms of intervention as early as possible, in order to guarantee the real right of women – access to contraception – the difficulties continue to be important. We had the debate not in the Committee on Justice but in the Committee on Public Health. Do you find it normal, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that the pill of the next day is not accessible in an extremely simplified way for young people, for the younger ones and for women in general? I don't think that's acceptable. In this area, it is an issue that remains extremely important today, first for women's freedom, because women's freedom begins before pregnancy and with access to contraception, including the next day's pill. It is also, it seems to me, an important issue in order to avoid unwanted pregnancies and to avoid ultimately having to resort to voluntary terminations of pregnancy. I would like, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to turn to you, to the government, and in this case to the Minister of Health, so that we can make real progress on contraception where, today, there are still shortcomings for which you have not agreed to move forward. I'm sorry. I hope that one day or the other, we will be able to fix once and for all this access to the next day's pill, but also to other contraceptive methods which are perhaps more recent, which actually have a certain cost but which will guarantee, even more importantly, the freedom of choice of the woman and the control of contraception in order to avoid unwanted pregnancies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to return for a short time to the way in which the work has been done on these texts, on a subject as important as this one which is really related to women's rights and which is fundamental. Among women's rights, there is the right to dispose of her body. What was the purpose of the bills on the table? They were aimed at improving a right, a right that exists, that is recognized, that has to be respected since 1990. I really felt, in the discussions that we had, that some viewed this right as a bad right and that on the limit, some would have preferred it never existed. No one dared to say that the right to abortion in Belgium would be abolished. Nevertheless, this opinion existed: the act of abortion, which is a right, is bad. Frankly, I found that parliamentary work on this subject could have been fruitful. Indeed, various legislative proposals had been made, with complementary positions. These proposals came from the majority and the opposition. So we could work together with auditions and build a collective text. We've had auditions of rare quality. They really brought something more to us every time and were calling us. Each proposer agreed from these hearings that he should improve an element in his original text. We did so, unfortunately only between opposition parties, when we had invited the parties of the majority to participate in this collective work. The fact is that the majority brings a closed text, different, which does not have the same magnitude, and with a speech tending to say that the best is still the strategy of the small step: "Given that the previous governments have done nothing, we have nothing to wax about it!" We are faced with a right that needs to be improved. You come with political speeches and quarrels. "You have not done this, you have no right to criticize; we do this, we take small steps and that is what matters." Frankly, through this vision and contempt for parliamentary work, it is ultimately a contempt for women and their rights. It is also a form of contempt and a lack of consideration for children. The right to GVI that results from the request of a woman who considers that she is not in a position to have a child at that time of her life is infringed when she is told: "It would still be better if you kept him". Will someone be forced to love a child? This obliges a child to suffer an unenviable fate, that of not being desired, of having a mother who is not in a position to raise him. He's the one who'll have to take care of this. It is not the parliamentarian who is here. It is also a lack of respect for doctors. They have been fighting since before 1990. Let's remember Dr. Peers and the others. They came to tell us that they wanted to exercise this right to abortion properly. The current practice, the reality of women, means that we no longer know how to apply it properly in accordance with the law. The law needs to be improved. That is why I regret the way we worked, not just because we fought between the majority and the opposition, but also because it involves and covers all these realities. I would also like to reassure Members of Parliament. Who is targeted through this bill? It is those who need it most, who are in socio-economic, socio-cultural or life-dramatic conditions that, when they ask for it, it is too late. It is to them that we must open and confirm this right. No one has ever said in the proceedings, or in any text of a proposal tabled, that it is a common act, an unconditional right. Everyone considers it an important act, a choice of life, a difficult decision, which is taken at some point by a woman who considers it the best solution for her. We know that this will not increase the number of abortions. Because those for whom there is a concern today, either, have money and are going to be aborted in the Netherlands, or, they benefit from the manslaughter of some doctors who meet their needs. But, in any case, we know that this free access does not increase the number of abortions. Many in the majority, and also in the opposition, spoke of the need to improve, where necessary, the psychosocial support of these women. This is part of the missions of the centres that practice GVI. These preventive missions are also expected from these bodies, since the ideal is not to be forced to practice abortion. The ideal is a good use of contraception. Of course, and that is part of the missions of the centres. But who refused to improve, a few months ago, the ability of the planning centres to give greater and easier access to contraception, to the pill the next day? Who refused to take into account the difficulties of some women to go directly to the pharmacy and use contraceptive equipment without being directly connected to the centre's doctor? It is this majority who has come to tell us that contraception needs to be used better and that, thanks to it, there is no need to extend or improve the right to abortion. Well, that's not possible, because it was refused a few months ago! A third unacceptable aspect in the committee discussions concerns guilt. Among the reasons behind this mobilization of women's associations, doctors and parliamentarians who submitted a proposal was the guilt of the woman, who exercises a right. In committee, the way in which parliamentarians of the majority expressed their difficulties in improving this right was to make the link with fault, with guilt, every time. If abortion was used, it was because we had not been able to be sufficiently responsible for ourselves! It is a moral judgment that is particularly difficult to accept in our time. Ecolo-Groen will resubmit a bill on health. We will incorporate one of the advances of the majority text, that of removing these articles from the Criminal Code, and we will improve the exercise of this right so as to increase the number of weeks during which it can be exercised, to reduce the period of reflection to 48 hours and to remove something incomprehensible. For some people, it is difficult to say that we are increasing the number of weeks, but we keep in the bill that we are going to pass today the fact that we will have to be certain that the unborn child will be suffering from a serious and incurable disease – when we are never sure of anything. When you know that there is a high risk, isn't it enough to allow medical termination of pregnancy? You left these provisions! We will therefore find ourselves with two-tiered access to the exercise of this right that all women should have. This is something that has also been discussed a lot. During the hearings, all the speakers noted that doctors, practitioners would be obliged to inform the women who came to consult them for an interruption of pregnancy on abandonment, adoption, child-care arrangements that they should allow to be born and then entrusted to them. I am speaking here as a woman, as a parliamentarian and as a psychologist. A child who is abandoned is a child who is placed in a situation of suffering throughout his childhood, throughout his adult life. Yet, you are saying that it is better for a woman to give up her child, to entrust it to a third party rather than to assume a voluntary termination of pregnancy in order to be pregnant at another time that is better for her and that will allow her to raise and love her child. I really blame you for that. I blame you for imposing this. With your bill, you are forcing doctors to lie because, in order to respect the needs of the most difficult women, they will not be able to comply with all the provisions, and you know that. In doing so, you force them to lie. You also force them to punish the woman. You're talking about evaluations that you'd like to improve. But these are not evaluations. When one hears some members of the majority, it is rather a question of controls. Indeed, you know that your law is not good and that the controls will be able to attack those who practice IVG. I am also mad at you for that. You have therefore despised parliamentary work and through it the right of women. I blame you for that too. The progress made in your text should have allowed the members of Ecolo to abstain in the vote, but in view of what I have just mentioned and which arouses the anger of several members of our group, some will only be able to vote against the text you are proposing to us. I just want to read you the article about these famous six days added, this week added to the twelve weeks. If I'm a woman, a woman who hasn't gone to college, who hasn't studied law, who isn't a member of parliament, I'm trying to find out what I can do. The article therefore states: "The doctor may not, at the earliest, terminate pregnancy until six days after the first scheduled consultation, unless there is an urgent medical reason for the pregnant woman to advance the termination of pregnancy; if the first consultation takes place at least six days before the expiry of the 12-week period, the period referred to shall be extended in proportion to the number of days not elapsed by the six-day period." I would not understand that thanks to this article, I am entitled to another week. Here too, it is a contempt in the exercise of rights: to make laws that cannot be understood. You will understand that I will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u139	I will make a brief statement simply to thank Mrs Gerkens for all the work done, not only in this dossier on the decriminalisation of abortion, but also in many ethical issues. We have been able to work together and I would like to thank her for all the work she has done and for the continuous search for a compromise. I'm glad you could still be here today. We will miss you in this Parliament, Mrs Gerkens, because you have common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is wonderful that a debate on the depen dence of abortion can take place in the Chamber. That's the way it's supposed to be. We should be able to have a free debate on ethical issues here. That debate must be conducted with respect for everyone's opinion. Regardless of who is in favour or against, such debates should be possible in the Chamber. I was therefore amazed at the sudden announcement that a historic agreement had been reached. That historic agreement was not beyond the limits of majority and opposition, but an agreement in the majority. It was called a historic agreement, because abortion would be removed from criminal law. But when I saw the text and therefore the result of that historic agreement, I was not so satisfied; I expected more from that historic agreement. Abortion remains a criminal offence if all the conditions are not met. There's just gonna be a special penal code. Perhaps a number of parties or a number of Members wanted to put their hats on their hats at the end of the present legislature. I respect everyone's opinion, but for me it's not a feather, it's a feather. It is true that steps are being taken and no steps are being taken forward. So I can't think of it as a super chord. There is no complete revision of the abortion law here, which is a pity. It should have been possible for the debate to take place, a free debate on majority and opposition. That should work on ethical issues. It is said in every party that there is such a thing as freedom of conscience, which allows Members of Parliament to vote freely in respect of ethical matters. I can only conclude, however, that this is not the case, because today, not every Member will vote in good conscience. It is a pity to note that participation also prevails in ethical matters. As representatives of the people, as representatives of the people, we should be free to express our opinion and vote freely on all ethical issues. We note that this will not be the case today. After all, we know from the debate that several Members wanted to go much further than the text before us today, but those Members will not support the amendments. In my opinion, everyone should be free to decide. I respect everyone's opinion. I therefore regret that Members, who are aware of their agreement to the content of the amendments, will not be able to approve them. As representatives of the people, we should be able to be completely free in the matter. I shall therefore vote freely; I am very clear on that. In our group, which is not that big, it may be easier, but each of us votes and makes its own choice. Some people here I hear argue that the amendments may go too far. I can argue against the fact that the law absolutely does not oblige abortion. The law must only ensure that abortion is removed from criminal law. A woman will never just go to abortion; she will decide on this very carefully. In my view, it is a pity that a woman who still wants to take the step of abortion outside a certain period of time is still obliged to go to the Netherlands in the end, so that she can still make her choice, which she thinks is the best and which she does not like to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u142	If she has to do so in this way, she will feel extremely bad, as a woman and perhaps as a future mother. That's too bad. I fully agree that prevention is very important and that we should also use it. But please leave that right to the woman and release everyone in it. Don't point your finger at anyone when it makes one or the other decision. Finally, I am very curious whether the co-signatory by the King will be there, because last time, under King Baudouin, that was rather difficult. So I am very curious to see what King Filip will do with this bill, as he still sees King Baudouin as his spiritual father. Will he sign the text or not? Let it be clear: never point a finger at a woman who has decided to have an abortion, for she has done so because she was in one or the other situation. Let women make that choice as freely as possible and please get abortion completely out of the penal code. The bill represents a small step forward and we will support it, but for us it should go much further.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u143	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this debate could have had a completely different dimension. He could have known the extent of what the legislature had given in 1990 as a result of the initiative of Mr. Lalman and Ms. Michielsens, which followed other bills tabled by a number of very early parliamentarians at the time. I am thinking in particular of Marcel Payfa, to whom I pay tribute, one of the very first in the Senate to have tabled a bill for the decriminalization of abortion. This debate in 1990 began to reflect on the major ethical issues relating to individual freedom of conscience, which relate to choices of life, choices in the face of death, and the fact that ethical debates in Parliament can only allow for a major change in legislation on one condition. And I answer that to Mrs Fonck. First, there is respect for each other's convictions. I have deep respect for those who, in these essential choices, may not share my most personal convictions. I have an esteem for those who openly and frankly assume more reserved choices, perhaps, or even more critical of a number of legislative developments. But there is one thing that has been at least achieved so far in our parliamentary assemblies – especially in the Senate, when the Senate was often the driving force behind legislative debates – that each member of Parliament, each party, agreed that this debate should be free from any issue related to the majority of government, because there can be no legislative progress on these essential issues if the majority of government, as a result of the blackmail of even one party, destroys the autonomy of the legislative power in the search for a necessary legislative evolution. What is happening again today, and that is where I make a severe criticism of the parties of the majority, is that you have returned to the old and bad tradition of those who consider that the freedom of the legislative power in this area must be undermined by the will of the majority government. That's regression! That is what you accepted, and that is why today there is a terrible obstacle to a debate which was initiated in committee on the basis of genuine mutual respect and a desire for dialogue and openness. That's unfortunate. It's a brake. It is simply the abandonment of what the legislature can do best when it is fully autonomous. I very much regret that. Second consideration. What we had all admitted over time in these delicate debates and which obviously do not ask for simplified answers through slogans, which require time and reflection, is that the law must free itself from the moral precepts desired by one or the other conviction. It is because the law is not there, in these sensitive subjects, to say what is in conformity with any convictions. It is there to allow everyone to assume their convictions in the depths of what holds them as essential convictions. That is what we want the legislator to allow. It is not that the legislator makes a moral judgment. Who can afford to make a moral judgment on such essential choices? It is that the law must simply open up the scope of freedom of conscience in these essential debates. And over time, regardless of each other's convictions, this essential evolution was admitted. That is why, for example, in the debates on the decriminalization of abortion in 1990, parliamentarians of Christian religious belief had passed the law on decriminalization. In my party, André Lagasse, former dean of the law faculty of UCL, had made this choice, out of respect for the convictions of others. I remember the trouble of a Jean-Louis Thys who, in his own party, advocated abstaining on this debate by saying: "My convictions, I do not want to impose them on others. I leave freedom to everyone."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u144	That is what we once again wanted to achieve in this essential debate. When we pleaded for the removal of the voluntary termination of pregnancy from the Criminal Code, it was not to reintegrate it into another criminal law, but to affirm that we wanted to decriminalize it definitively. Let's not play words! Let us not call the removal of the provisions of the Penal Code a step forward and take them almost as they were in a criminal law! A criminal law remains a criminal law – whether it is entitled "Criminal Code" or "Clarinval Law". That was the debate to be held in this House. I would like immediately to challenge the false argument that, on the grounds that any criminal provision would be deleted, there would be no more beacons. Go to Simone Veil's French law, dating back to 1975: there are no criminal penalties! Go to Luxembourg, Dutch, Danish law. It would be reasoning as if the doctors were criminals in power. It's kind of like doctors don't know their ethics. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u145	I'm going back to what's important. Don't look to sneeze on details! It was as if doctors were not likely to know what contributed to the well-being and health of women, in fact, in the face of a delicate and difficult choice, but which was finally recognized as a right. A right! WHO and the European Court of Human Rights recalled this. This choice is no longer considered as a criminal act with possible reasons for exemption. The exercise of a right is not reprimanded! Women's right to self-determination is respected. That's what we had to talk about. We were prepared to discuss the length of time during which voluntary termination of pregnancy can be exercised without going into the category of medical interruption of pregnancy. We could have talked about the time frame for reflection. Personally, I believe that we can totally repeal it. We could have talked about that, if that were the condition for seeking the largest majority. But you did not want this debate, in the name of a majority government, for reasons of balance within the majority government. This seems to me to have to be said: it is ultimately a confiscated debate. This is a debate where Parliament is denied in the fullness of its powers. This is a debate after which thousands of women will still say that, in certain personal circumstances, using a doctor in Belgium to carry out a voluntary termination of pregnancy is perhaps a risk of criminal prosecution. Many women will therefore still choose to travel to other countries. However, we could have given the signal of serenity in this debate. I recognize and respect the opposing views. But what a huge majority of those who had been heard in committee and a number of practitioners wanted to do was: "Do not put this medical approach at risk of penalization. Trust the dialogue, the relationship of trust that must be established between the woman and the doctor." That was the signal we wanted to give through the definitive and total decriminalization of the abortion. This debate has been confiscated. Perhaps it will still take the revolt of many doctors like Willy Peers to finally get this debate back in this House, with the demand of respect, and first of all the respect due to the woman.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal does not change anything important about the right to abortion. It is even a step backwards in this right because it has only one purpose: to evacuate the many proposals of the opposition which, in turn, defended real progress. These proposals of what some have called "progressive opposition", responded to the call of the community world and the wishes of a large majority of the population, in order to achieve three objectives: to abolish the criminal sanctions relating to abortion, to remove the abnormal length of the period of reflection of six days and to substantially increase the term of twelve weeks during which abortion is possible to approach, for example, the situation in the Netherlands, towards which, every year, hundreds of women are obliged to turn in order to be able to abort. The majority's proposal does not achieve any of these three objectives and removes those that contained them. Is it not the worst thing that the majority bases its argument on a word game intended to deceive the population, to "fuck the mouth" of women at risk of going to prison? You claim to remove abortion from the Penal Code, but explicitly write, in the developments of the bill: "Our bill aims to repeal the current articles of the Penal Code concerning voluntary abortion and to transfer them into a specific law." You did not even bother to amend the text of the Penal Code. You have done a simple copy-paste, for example for the article that provides for imprisonment from one month to one year and a fine of 50 to 200 euros. Needless to say, many jurists are frankly shocked by this masquerade, by the fact that they triture the legislation simply for a pure political marketing operation without real substantive changes. This is the case of Laurent Kennes, member of the Commission for the Reform of Criminal Procedure, who says: "We must stop saying that we are decriminalizing. That doesn't make any sense. Scientifically and academically, it's shocking." He adds, "We are lying to the population." Indeed, people are being disdained. What is the purpose of this legislative move, apart from deceiving people? How would it be a symbolic achievement, as Mr. Clarinval claims, to take the IVG out of the Penal Code and put it in another law? In what way is it an acquiescence to tell a woman that she would be put in prison, because she had an abortion: "Madam, be assured, you are in prison but not on the basis of the Penal Code but on the basis of a specific law"? I would even say that the risk of going to prison is probably greater with this amendment than before, because the 1990 law, as we know, was the result of a somewhat difficult political agreement. For the purposes of the cause, it contained blurry and artifice that probably induced the prosecution to be cautious before proceeding with the prosecution. Here, with this proposal, there is a clear law with clear conditions and therefore women or doctors who do not comply with these conditions today are more likely than before to be victims of new prosecutions or even new convictions. Hence, a historic opportunity to complete the incomplete work initiated by the partial decriminalisation of 1990. A historic opportunity to decriminalize women by granting them a full and complete right to freely dispose of their bodies. It was a historic opportunity to consider abortion as a medical act and not as an act punishable by imprisonment. It was also a historic opportunity in view of the situation in Europe and in the rest of the world. Today, in many countries, the right to abortion has either never been acquired or is being challenged. In this international context, we would have given a positive signal more than opportune. In Latin America, only three countries allow abortion: Cuba, since 1959, Guyana, since 2006, and Uruguay, since 2012. CD&V, cdH, much of the N-VA are against the decriminalization of abortion. It doesn't surprise a big world. But they do not form a majority in this Parliament. Many expected another attitude of the liberals, given their secular tradition. Finally, is that so surprising on the part of the Liberals? Is it surprising if the Liberals don't care about these issues? Not so much! If we see their policy, it is in the direction of reducing people's rights. There may have been some enlightened liberals in the 19th century but this time is quite distant. How can we defend people's rights when we're hooked up with the N-VA and are often tempted, like them, to surf racism? How can we defend the rights of people when we consider searching people who are in solidarity with migrants? How can we defend people's rights when we break social rights, when we break the rights of the sick, the unemployed, pensioners – especially pensioners – when we break the right to strike, when we attack the weakest, including women, often in more precarious economic situations? The policy of the right is to withdraw rights from the population. This does not surprise me, therefore, that this right today defends a proposal to put women in prison who simply want to dispose of their bodies freely!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u147	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u148	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3216/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3216/7) The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a law on voluntary termination of pregnancy, lifting Articles 350 and 351 of the Criminal Code, amending Articles 352 and 383 of the same Code and amending various legal provisions." The title has been amended by the commission to "proposal for a law on voluntary termination of pregnancy, repealing articles 350 and 351 of the Penal Code and amending articles 352 and 383 of the same Code and amending various legislative provisions". The bill has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u149	Art. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 71 – Catherine Fonck (3216/8) • 75 – Karine Lalieux cs (3216/8) • 76 – Karine Lalieux cs (3216/8) • 77 – Karine Lalieux cs (3216/8) • 72 – Catherine Fonck (3216/8) • 78 – Karine Lalieux cs (3216/8) • 73 – Catherine Fonck (3216/8) • 80 – Karine Lalieux cs (3216/8) • 79 – Karine Lalieux cs (3216/8) Art. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... • 81 – Karine Lalieux cs (3216/8) 74 Catherine Fonck (3216/8) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u150	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u151	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 4 to 15, with improvements in the wording in French and Articles 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u152	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u153	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, MM. Roel Deseyn and Benoît Piedboeuf refer to the written report. Mr Dispa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u154	Mr President, thank you. After the important debate we have just had, the subject we are dealing with here is probably lighter, but I would still like to allow myself to return to it. This text is not insignificant in terms of VAT legislation. It consists of two parts; the first contains favourable provisions for buildings for disabled persons, buildings for teaching, supervision of pupils and housing in the framework of social policy. These are provisions that we support. The other part raises a budgetary question in particular. This is an important tax incentive for the rental market, particularly for new buildings. It is therefore also a stimulus for the construction and renovation sector. Mr Minister, in committee, you have set out the objectives of this measure, and we can support it in one direction: to simplify VAT rules, to encourage investment, to eliminate the competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis neighbouring countries. So far, we agree. But the problem that now appears even more acute than in committee concerns the budgetary impact of this proposal. You explained to us that according to the FPS Finance calculations, the budget impact of the bill would be about 21 million euros a year when the measure reaches its cruising speed. It was an estimate that was not unanimous, since within the majority, one member questioned and argued that it was difficult to calculate the exact budgetary impact of the measure. The new element in relation to the debate we have had in committee concerns the fact that experts have spoken in the press to consider that the budgetary impact as you have announced is largely underestimated. The reform is presented as a real gift to the real estate sector, which will cost far more than the €21 million announced. Mr Minister, in connection with this debate in plenary, I would like to question you, because it seems to me essential to take an informed position on this text. In any event, it will be important, when the measure comes into effect, to verify the estimate you announced to us. Do you confirm this amount? Is it not to be feared that, through this tax gift, we will not be exposed to certain disappointments or, in any case, to impacts that would be far greater than those you have indicated? Subject to the information you give us and given the uncertainty we are in on the budget, the cdH group will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u155	I have also seen what has been said in some newspapers and publications. It is not easy to find specific elements to introduce them into calculations. I contacted FPS Finance again. As Mr. Dispa made clear, they did the calculations. These resulted in a gross estimate of $47 million and a net cost of $20 to $21 million. Nor do they find arguments to change these estimates. I confirm once again that the estimated budgetary cost at this time is 21 million net. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u156	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u157	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3254/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3254/3) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation amending the Code of Value Added Tax as regards the optional taxation on rental of immovable property of their kind and amending Royal Decree No. 20, 20 July 1970, fixing the rates of value added tax and the classification of goods and services at those rates as regards the reduced rate of VAT on the taxable rental of immovable property of their kind.' Commission and draft law amending the Code of Value Added Tax as regards the optional taxation of rentals of immovable property of their kind and amending Royal Decree No. 20, 20 July 1970, fixing the rates of value added tax and the classification of goods and services at those rates as regards the reduced rate of VAT on the taxable rental of immovable property of their kind.' The draft law has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u158	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u159	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u160	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u161	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3257/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3257/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u162	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u163	The Government requested urgent treatment under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft law: draft law amending the law of 19 December 2008 on the acquisition and use of human body material for the purpose of medical application to humans or scientific research, No. 3262/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the following Bill: Bill amending the Act of 19 December 2008 on the procurement and use of human body material for human medical applications or for scientific research purposes, No. 3262/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u164	Mr President, this draft makes a number of important changes, which should enter into force on 1 November 2018. This is the date of entry into force of the KB of 9 January 2018 concerning the biobanks. For this reason, the government is asking that it be dealt with as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u165	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u166	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 October 2018, I also propose that you consider the legislative proposal (Mrs Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Kristof Calvo cs) to extend the right to political leave in order to facilitate access to a parliamentary mandate, No. 3302/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u167	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 October 2018, I also propose that you take into consideration: the bill (MM. Gilles Vanden Burre and Kristof Calvo et al.) extending the right to political leave in order to facilitate access to the parliamentary mandate, No. 3302/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u168	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u169	Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck on article 2. [[(]] 3223/7) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. ( 3223/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[46]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 2/1(n). [[(]] 3223/7) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 2/1(n). ( 3223/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u170	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck on Article 3. [[(]] 3223/7) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck to Article 3. ( 3223/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 34 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Catherine Fonck on article 4. [[(]] 3223/7) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Catherine Fonck to Article 4. ( 3223/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 44 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Mrs Meyrem Almaci voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 4/1(n). [[(]] 3223/7) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 4/1(n). ( 3223/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 48 Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 25 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 4/1(n). [[(]] 3223/7) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 4/1(n). ( 3223/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u171	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 79 Yes No. [[42]] No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3223/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3223/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u173	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 94 Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (584/13) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (584/13) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u174	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 79 Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3167/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3167/ 8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u175	Vote on Amendment No 71 by Catherine Fonck on Article 2. [[(]] 3216/8) Vote on Amendment No 71 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. ( 3216/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[8]] Yes No. 119 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Maya Detiège and Mr Alain Top voted against. Vote on Amendment No 75 by Karine Lalieux cs on Article 2. [[(]] 3216/8) Vote on Amendment No 75 by Karine Lalieux cs to Article 2. ( 3216/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 33 Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 76 by Karine Lalieux cs on Article 2. [[(]] 3216/8) Vote on Amendment No 76 by Karine Lalieux cs to Article 2. ( 3216/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 77 by Karine Lalieux cs on Article 2. [[(]] 3216/8) Vote on Amendment No 77 by Karine Lalieux cs to Article 2. ( 3216/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u176	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 72 by Catherine Fonck on Article 2. [[(]] 3216/8) Vote on amendment No 72 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. ( 3216/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 9 Yes No. 112 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 78 by Karine Lalieux cs on Article 2. [[(]] 3216/8) Vote on Amendment No 78 by Karine Lalieux cs to Article 2. ( 3216/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 73 by Catherine Fonck on Article 2. [[(]] 3216/8) Vote on Amendment No 73 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. ( 3216/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[18]] Yes No. 112 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 80 by Karine Lalieux cs on Article 2. [[(]] 3216/8) Vote on Amendment No 80 by Karine Lalieux cs to Article 2. ( 3216/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[42]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 79 by Karine Lalieux cs on Article 2. [[(]] 3216/8) Vote on Amendment No 79 by Karine Lalieux cs to Article 2. ( 3216/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 31 Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Julie Fernandez-Fernandez and Laurent Devin voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 81 by Karine Lalieux cs on Article 3. [[(]] 3216/8) Vote on Amendment No 81 by Karine Lalieux cs to Article 3. ( 3216/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Kristof Calvo has voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 74 by Catherine Fonck on Article 3. [[(]] 3216/8) Vote on Amendment No 74 by Catherine Fonck to Article 3. ( 3216/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 9 Yes No. 112 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted, with an improvement in the text. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted, with a correction to the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u177	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u178	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of Gautier Calomne and on my behalf, we have been following this issue very closely for many months and over the last few years, to stress the courage of my party, which has been able, at some point, to put on the table an important subject, to achieve a result despite conditions not necessarily obvious and, above all, to symbolically remove an obstacle to the legitimate right of women. In particular, my thanks go to my party president and my group leader. I know that he did not necessarily have the easy task when he was forced to defend the proposal before us today. I would therefore like to greet him. In my opinion, a step forward has been taken. Of course, we must continue the fight. That is why my colleague, Gautier Calomne, and I myself will abstain today. Indeed, we would have liked more progress in terms of deadlines. I sincerely hope that, in future, the health law, the health law for women, can be put back on the table and adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u179	But what a disappointment! What a disappointment, Madame Jadin! If you did not vote as one man and without freedom of conscience or of vote, which has been unique since 1990, when even Wilfried Martens had allowed freedom of vote, if you were in favour of a shortened deadline, Mrs Jadin, why didn't you vote for the amendment that was proposed to you a moment ago? Today, I don't want any more political controversy, Mrs Jadin. But today, it is the women who are making big losers of this debate because of the lack of courage of the Liberals and because the conservative fringe of this government – the N-VA and the CD&V – will have won in this important ethical debate. There is no more freedom in this Parliament. There is no more freedom in this democracy, in the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u180	Mrs Lalieux, I am terribly sad to hear you say that. You had this opportunity, for a very long time, when you had your hand in the government - for 27 years, if I'm not mistaken. We must welcome today's opportunity to truly, symbolically, give women a right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u181	Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of Van Hees for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u182	The demonstration is done. I asked Mr. Clarinval earlier. I asked him whether the alleged freedom of vote that you give to Members of your group was that of voting freely on the amendments that the opposition had tabled. We have the answer. Mrs. Jadin just said so. She voted against an amendment which she shared the content of. It's pretty obvious. The liberal dictatorship has expressed itself clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u183	To be clear, we are on the point of explaining your vote. We are now voting on the legislative proposal No. 3216. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[84]] Yes No. [[39]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3216/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3216/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u184	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 78 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3254/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3254/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u185	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 76 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 49 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3257/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3257/4) Mr. Georges Dallemagne and Ms. Julie Fernandez-Fernandez abstained. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-04-54-plenair-ip246x.u186	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's meetings. We need to approve the agenda for next week's sittings. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Monday 8 October 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Monday, 8 October 2018, at 2.15 p.m.
