ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u2	Colleagues, we begin with the questions addressed to the Minister of Justice, who will, however, be answered by Deputy Prime Minister Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u3	Mr President, Minister, last autumn the file of the Gang of Nivelles was taken from under the dust again. "A year-on-year custom," one hears the victims say. This time, however, it seemed different. Due to a number of media revelations, including who the "Reus" would be, the file got the attention it deserves, the federal parquet was turned on and the number of investigators was raised from 3 to 26. Now, however, it appears that the trail to the giant is as good as dead. It is excluded that Christiaan Bonkoffsky, who according to his brother confessed on his deathbed that he was a member of the Gang of Nivelles, would be effective that Reus would be. That is surprising news, in which everyone frowns again and the victims, for whom that is all very emotional, ask themselves again a lot of questions. Minister, I know it is not your competence, but I hope you will be able to answer our questions properly. On what basis is Christiaan Bonkoffsky excluded? Is there simply insufficient evidence or are there elements pointing in a different direction? I hope, Minister, that Minister None has informed the victims of this in advance and that he has invited them again to a new information meeting, as he has done a few times in the past. Does the Minister have any idea how many of these hundreds of tips have been dealt with in the meantime and can we get an update on them? Can you reassure us that the progress made so far in this dossier has not been in vain and that the investigation is not being buried again?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Smeyers, the answer I will give you on behalf of my colleague, the Minister of Justice, was drawn up after consultation with the federal prosecutor. I will not go into the content, the progress and the results of the investigations and the ongoing judicial investigation. The new impetus that has been given to the investigation must not now be mortgaged by exposing secret judicial information. As the Minister of Justice said earlier in the Chamber and in the Committee on Justice, additional resources have indeed been used to continue this criminal case very thoroughly in all its aspects. The increase in resources is taking place both in the area of police services and in the area of justice. The promised extension of the detective squad to 30 full-time units is almost complete. Those detectives and analysts are in the middle of the investigation. I am referring to the federal police and the Committee P. The expert involvement of the federal prosecutor in the judicial investigation has also been ongoing for months. In close cooperation with the investigating judge, an extensive research plan and a court strategy are followed. The Minister of Justice, together with the federal prosecutor, stresses that the investigation now deserves the necessary serenity. There's a lot of work going on. Mr Smeyers, I therefore assume that the Minister of Justice will provide all the information he can and can communicate at the right time. Serenity is now absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Everyone hoped that the golden tip on the Reus was finally a wake-up call for the Justice Department and for the politicians to revive this file, and so did. The federal prosecutor's office was called in. The number of investigators was raised to thirty. The police were involved massively and the P Committee is also doing its job. Our group hopes that the progress made will not be reversed and that there will be no repetition. I am somewhat reassured by your answer. Mr. Secretary, at the bell fort of my city of Aalst my mayor is also here making the slogan nec spe nec metu. Neither hope nor fear can guide us. Sometimes one would start to fear hearing how many people are already threatened in this dossier, how many people are afraid to speak. I hope that the Justice Minister, in a rule of law, worthy of that name, does not allow him to reassure people, that he encourages people to continue giving tips. The hope of the truth has long been given up by many and perhaps also by the victims, but the Justice Department must not allow us to lose hope in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u6	Mr President, Minister, a rich and full life and healthy old age is what we all want. Moving to a rest home is often a very last option, when staying home really is no longer possible. In a rest home people just wish to be well cared for. And being well cared for includes, if necessary, when people become ill, pain relief, palliative care and, if necessary, self-chosen, considered euthanasia. Once again, Minister, we are faced with testimonies. This time it's about a residential care center in Lebbeke, where this dignified end of life is apparently denied to people. A witness says that the face of the people departs from the pain, that it really is not human, that one simply does not give enough morphine, that to those who ask for euthanasia, it is said that one should look elsewhere. Mr Minister, in 2018, this is not only inhuman but, of course, also against the law. Minister, residents and staff also testify that the residential care centre does not provide enough information to patients and leaves them in the cold. The way that care institution treats its residents is unheard of. A number of complaints were alleged to have been lodged, involving negligence. Minister, negligence is the least that can be said about the issue. The law is simply pushed aside, although the law clearly states that a residential care centre should not interfere with a patient's euthanasia question. So, Minister, my questions are simple. What action is being taken on these complaints? Has the problem of euthanasia been identified in residential care centres? What will the Minister of Justice do to ensure, where appropriate, that the law on patients' rights is enforced and, if necessary, amended?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, my colleague, the Minister of Justice, has, like you, taken note through the media of the fact that a residential care centre in East Flanders would be reluctant to apply euthanasia, and would not provide adequate information and guidance to its residents and staff on pain relief and end-of-life questions. However, many of the questions raised by this article fall within the competence of another minister or government. The Minister of Justice limits his reply to the aspects of justice. The Law of 28 May 2002 lays down, under very strict conditions, the cases in which euthanasia is permitted, as well as the procedure to be respected. The law does not impose an obligation to perform an euthanasia and does not impose sanctions in the event of a doctor or a residential care centre refusing to implement it. This does not prevent a residential care centre, like any other citizen, from being subject to due diligence, including in the information it provides to its residents on the termination of life. Any negligence in this respect, which leads to damage, may be the subject of a liability claim against the institution. In this respect, the Minister of Justice refers as an example to the judgment of the Leuven Court of 29 June 2016, which was also addressed in the media. The court ruled that the incorrect provision of information by the institution regarding the possible execution of euthanasia in that institution gave rise to the payment of compensation. The Minister of Justice concludes by reaffirming that, if criminal offences have occurred, the prosecution will open a criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your reply on behalf of the Minister of Justice. It goes without saying that if criminal offences are committed, they must be traced and, where appropriate, followed up. As far as the legislation on euthanasia and the obligation to refer is concerned, everyone has the right to a decent end to life and to euthanasia if requested. If the implementation of the legislation continues to give rise to problems in practice, then it is high time that the Minister of Justice examined euthanasia legislation. We see day in and day out that the various codes of conduct are being examined and rewritten in the Justice Commission. I believe that it is time for euthanasia legislation to be properly examined and adjusted, if necessary, so that in practice everyone has the right to a decent end to life.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u9	Minister, there are early elections in Turkey on 24 June. Since the government has still not abolished dual nationality, there will undoubtedly be a fight for every vote in this country. Last year, with the riots at the Turkish Embassy, we found that fighting can sometimes be taken literally. Last week 'dictaturk' Erdogan announced that he also wants to conduct his election campaign abroad this time. Austria has reacted decisively to this. The Austrian Chancellor Kurz said that such performances are undesirable and that he will not allow them. Minister, there is a good chance that Erdogan will also choose this country as a field of action for his campaign campaign. Hence my question to you as to whether you will follow the Austrian example. Will you also prohibit this and make it so clear that Turkish election campaigns do not belong in Flanders and that foreign political conflicts cannot be fought in the streets of Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u10	Mrs Pas, my answer will be rather short. When members of the Turkish Government or the President himself come to campaign on the territory of that country, public order is certainly in danger. I am competent to safeguard public order, and so we will fight against such practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u11	Minister, you are actually giving the same answer as last year: you are referring to public order. When Turkish ministers wanted to campaign here, you also said that it was also the responsibility of local authorities to act against it. I would point out that you could give a much clearer signal. You don't even have to go as far as Austria. Look at Germany, for example. Germany was in the same situation as our country last year: it referred to public order and it shifted responsibility to the local authorities. In the meantime, however, there is a law banning political action by politicians from countries outside the European Union three months before the elections. You should be working on such a ban, and you should first of all work on the abolition of double nationality. Then the problem wouldn't even exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u12	Parliament makes the laws!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u13	There are a number of questions for the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, but they will be answered by Deputy Prime Minister Jambon, Minister for Security and Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u14	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we know that this is the summation of the regent appointment of the National Bank of Belgium by Mr Cédric Frère, 34 years old and hardly experienced in the problem. He was given this mandate purely because he is the grandson of Albert Frère, a wealthy financier. That is no more or less than the return to the Belgique à Daddy, where the French-speaking elite could drop her offspring in all kinds of strategic places in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u15	À grand-daddy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u16	À daddy, à grand-daddy. That's even worse, Mr. Jambon. If I were in your place, I wouldn't laugh so much as a Flemish nationalist. This is a return to the Belgique à daddy, where the elite could drop her offspring in strategically important places, according to her desire. Albert Frère named the appointment regent of first his son and then his grandson by the way a family matter. Colleagues, these are not practices from the last century, but from the previous century, worthy of a banana republic. That that kind of nepotism is still possible in our country in 2018, says everything about the N-VA and its minister. It says everything about how the N-VA has turned into a common power party in record tempo. It says everything that the self-proclaimed party of change, of all its constituents, and by enlargement, laughs in their faces at all citizens by catapulting Albert Frère's grandson in the chair of regent. That's purely political bullshit. The N-VA therefore undermines confidence. (Conversation on the banks)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join with the Conference of Presidents in calling for each other to listen and not to interrupt inappropriately. I can understand the fierceness of the debate, but please let us remain present. (Protests from Mrs Temmerman) I'm not looking at you, Mrs. Temmerman, I'm looking at everyone, even the government bank. You have half a minute to speak, Mrs Almaci, you alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u18	It's purely political crap from a party that's become a common power party. She thereby undermines confidence in the National Bank, in politics and in entrepreneurship in Flanders and Belgium. That's what you did. I have only one question. On the basis of what objective personal merits was Mr Cédric Frère chosen by Minister Van Overtveldt as regent of the National Bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the National Bank of Belgium is one of the most powerful bodies in this country which is decisive in terms of monetary policy, economic and wage policy, the control of banks, the annual accounts of companies and the bank accounts database. The National Bank of Belgium has a regency council where for years Albert Frère, representative of the great capital, second fortune of Belgium with 6.3 billion, a fortune built on the theft of the State, on the use of tax havens, on the sale of Belgian jewels abroad. Then, after Albert Brother, who did we get? His son, Gérald Brother! For twenty years he succeeded him in this council of regency. Today, after twenty years, who is there? Who replaces Gérald Brother? Cédric Brother, the grandson of Albert Brother, the son of Gérald Brother. Unbelievable! At the age of 34, his career was the management of fortunes at Degroof Bank, then in the family group. Who decided that? It's Minister Van Overtveld but on the advice of the Prime Minister, we read in The Last Hour. It was then Prime Minister MR who advised the Minister of Finance N-VA. There you actually meet, MR and N-VA! When it comes to rolling out the carpet to big capital, you always agree with each other! We have the impression that this government is reintroducing blood law into state functions. Minister, is it correct that the Minister of Finance has followed the Prime Minister's advice to decide that? Second, are not all the questionable behaviors of the Brother group and the Brother family a reason to exclude its representatives from the National Bank? Thirdly, what are the criteria? Is it about skills, name or money, capital, or all three? Indeed, we do not have a father's son, but a 34-year-old grandpa grandson who has only worked in the management of fortunes so far. Fourthly, has the Belgian State become a feudal state or a banana republic, such as the title De Tijd? Finally, will the government reconsider its decision since it is on 22 May, at the General Assembly of the National Bank, that the appointment is to come into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u20	Mr President, Minister, jobs, jobs, jobs... I must say that your government is top in job creation for political friends, because that job creation is really impressive. Cédric Frère is regent at the National Bank of Belgium and he follows his father and grandfather. I find that we have a second royal family in our country. The succession and dotation are also arranged with the Frère family. That's thanks to the MR. Another party sends the head of its study service to the Regent Council and sends her treasurer to the College of censors. But, yeah, they're jobs, jobs, jobs. I would advise this government to read the book The Moneymakers of Veronique Goossens. In her book, she describes the National Bank as a very outdated institution where a lot of money could be saved after a reform. The College of Censors is a useless organ. It was for the control of forty-two local agencies. Those local agencies have long closed the doors, but the censors have always remained. The Regent Council guarantees jobs for the social partners and the haute finance. However, a slimming down of that management committee was an idea of this government, but it could not, because CD&V had to appoint someone and the head of Gwendolyn Rutten's cabinet had to leave the streets as well. Minister, I would like to remind you that the euro has been introduced. Belgian banknotes have long disappeared. There is even a European Central Bank. However, the National Bank of Belgium continues to exist, with one governor, one vice-governor, five directors, eight regents and ten censors. I don't call that the National Bank anymore. I call that a Mexican army. Those are the jobs, jobs, jobs. Minister, what steps will this government take to reform the National Bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I give the answer on behalf of the Minister for Finance, but I fully support the answer he has given me. The National Bank's Regent Council plays a supervisory role. It approves the annual accounts and annual report of the National Bank, lays down the remuneration policy for members of the Executive Board and the household and deontological rules. In monetary policy, on the other hand, the Regent Council has no competence either in terms of content or in terms of prudential supervision of the financial sector. Those areas belong to the exclusive competence of the governor and of the Executive Committee of the National Bank. In order to prevent the role of the Regency Council from being oriented by a single stream, such as that of private shareholders, the legislator decided that the composition of the Regency Council should reflect the socio-economic world of our country. Five of the ten regents are selected on the proposal of the organisations of workers in industry and commerce, agriculture and the most represented middle classes. The remaining five regents are selected on a proposal from the government, taking into account political relations and the linguistic role. There is a legal linguistic parity within the Council of Regency between Dutch-speaking and French-speaking people. The terms of office of the Regency Council shall be three years. The legal pension age is 67 years. On 23 March 2018, the National Bank informed the Minister of Finance that a number of mandates within the Regent Council expired by the expiry of the three-year period or by reaching the age limit. The Minister was asked to make new nominations. For the vacant mandates from socio-economic civil society, the Minister held consultations with the relevant trade ministers and with the underlying organisations. For the remaining vacant mandates, consultations were held with colleagues within the government. Mr Frère's nomination is the direct consequence of this. Brother is a director of companies in the Bro-Bourgeois Group, at the Compagnie Nationale à Portfolio (CNP) and at Pargesa Holding. He built his professional experience at the Degroof Petercam Bank and the Royal Bank of Scotland. It is now up to the regent to best assume the role entrusted to the Regent Council. Finally, for appointments in general, the government looks after them and insists that the rules and the legal framework, specific to each institution, are respected. As far as the Regency Council is concerned, the proposals aim to allow for the various technical inputs within the Regency Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u22	Mr President, Minister, the hesitant hand-clap says everything. Minister, I know you speak on behalf of Mr Van Overtveldt, but does the government really take the citizens for idiots? You have set out in beautiful posts that the appointment is the result of political negotiations within the majority. It's about political bullshit. That's what you said. There is no procedure and there is no intention to install an objective procedure. There is no audit that the candidate has proposed. Dear Members of Parliament, that is the true face of the N-VA, a party for and by 1%, apparently in all its decisions. Colleagues, was this dossier not the best opportunity to finally add a woman to the Regent Council? There's only one woman on the Regent Council. That too is a story of the past. In the meantime, however, it has proved to be the guiding principle of the N-VA. For all the members of the N-VA who are constantly holding back on the importance of competences, I can name ten women with more competences than Mr Frère and who could be eligible for the Regent Council. It seems that there are quotas. The N-VA clearly refers to the application of quotas for people with deep pockets. They shall be given priority in the N-VA. That's very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u23	Minister, even if you did not answer our questions, what you said still contained an interesting answer. You explained that half of the regency council was designated by the bosses, with the unions, and that the government quota was used to designate other bosses, among them Cédric Brother, as if the employer quota was not enough. On the qualities of Cedric Brother, you do not provide us with many elements. He worked in fortune management and in family clubs. He must undoubtedly have skills, as evidenced by the involvement of the Bro-Bourgeois Group in tax havens, in Panama, in the Netherlands Antilles, in Switzerland, etc., or in the LuxLeaks. Cédric Brother probably has skills to defraud the tax authorities. There is indeed expertise also to take advantage of the state's money. We know that the Brother family built its fortune on the sale to the state of the steel industry. The taxpayer put billions in it that went into the pockets of the Brother family. All this thanks to good relations with public agents and especially between Albert Frère and Didier Reynders. We know, for example, that the second one spent one night in the Marrakech villa of the first one. With good relations like this, it is possible to make a maximum of wheat in Belgium! This policy is further translated into the appointment of Cédric Frère to the National Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u24	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. This only shows the need for reform. I'm reading two quotes. The first one: "The dolls on the posts, that's one of the most important assignments you've made yours." Then comes the second: "No common interest, to do party political interests is to do it here. We are not participating in this." Who is this sweet person who uttered these beautiful words in December 2012? You, Mr. Jambon. You said those words in 2012 and then you addressed the Di Rupo government. I can say the same to the Michel administration today. The PS might also shamelessly appoint its treasurer to the head of the study service at the National Bank. The power of change, in which I have believed for so long, where has it gone? I'm really disappointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that the answers will be provided by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Security and Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u26	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I wish to return to the violent assault on three STIB agents beaten up by some 30 young people in a neighbourhood of the capital, in the municipality of Anderlecht. A team of the VRT in reportage was, in turn, chased with stone throws. Previously, ten police officers had already filed charges of attempted murder in the same area: the Peterbos neighbourhood. The residents interviewed go so far as to talk about a no-right zone and drug trafficking that would have developed there. The climate is obviously very tense and difficult to live in for the inhabitants of the neighbourhood. This situation undoubtedly calls for a police response, but I would like to focus on the more repressive aspect. How can we punish as effectively as possible these repeated attacks on persons who represent public authority? Our criminal arsenal has the accelerated procedure that works well in different boroughs. I have found that the judgments concerning the protagonists of the Brussels riots – which took place in November 2017 – are being pursued according to the latter, have just been rendered. Some were convicted and others acquitted. The Minister of Justice also announced that a reflection was under way to make this procedure faster with a maximum period of one month between the facts, on the one hand, and the hearing, on the other. So, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what are the instruments that we currently have at the security level to respond to these phenomena of urban violence as I have just mentioned? In particular, with regard to attacks on police officers, the Federal Police Spokesman explained that he did not have statistics on verbal or physical violence against them. The President of SLFP Police, for his part, called for the creation of a register of such violence by third parties against police officers. Can you give us your position on the creation and the added value of such a register? If so, can you provide us with a schedule for its implementation? Finally, are there ongoing consultations between your administration and that of the Minister responsible for Justice to create common synergies on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u27	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we were all shocked by the events that took place on Sunday night in the Peterbos neighbourhood. A routine control of STIB degenerated, resulting in the injury of three public transport agents. Such actions are unacceptable to us. Nowhere in this country, whether in Brussels or elsewhere, there can be no lawless zone. It is unacceptable that workers in a public society – firefighters, paramedics or factors – are victims of aggression because they do their work in the service of the public. It is intolerable for urban gangs to make the law and for people to live in fear. That said, when you sit in a government, so you're a political leader, what do you do? Are we throwing oil on the fire or are we helping the local police? You're just saving money in police and justice. In addition, you tweet words to racist hints! Minister, what about the police and the judiciary? What about the strengthening of the resources requested by the local authorities? Antwerp also experienced serious incidents involving drug trafficking, shooting of kalashnikovs, etc., but there you intervened immediately by sending reinforcements. What about Brussels? I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u28	Mr President, the first question was addressed to the Minister of Justice, while the second is addressed to me as a police officer. Therefore, I would ask you to give me a little more time to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u29	You're entitled to four minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u30	Four minutes? Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Ben Hamou, first of all, I invite you to stop uttering lies. We do not save money for police and justice. On the contrary, we are investing a great deal: more than a billion under this legislature! Stop lying!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u31	Hundreds of millions of euros in savings!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u32	Mr Laaouej, I do not think I have seen your name on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u33	Hundreds of millions of euros of savings in justice!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u34	I understand that it affects you... Peterbos is not a no-go zone! Other problem areas in Brussels are not! In Brussels, there are no more no-go zones! We note that our approach to the Canal Plan is bearing fruit. We remain careful that the problems around the canal area do not move in the surrounding areas. For the local police in Brussels-Midi, the Peterbos district has long been a point of attention. Its population, mainly allochthonous, is poor and local social housing societies allow housing blocks to deteriorate. Criminal gangs are free to trade drugs and weapons. However, this does not prevent local police areas, with the specialized means of the federal police, from continuing to engage tirelessly in these neighbourhoods. In recent months, various control actions have taken place and have intensified in recent weeks, particularly with yesterday's action. Some 30 officers from both local and federal police, with the support of a canine brigade and a helicopter, took part. During the monitoring exercise, four persons were arrested, three persons received a communal administrative sanction (SAC), sixty persons were checked, as well as 50 vehicles and the various buildings. That's what the police do in difficult places. I now give you Minister Geens' answer to Mr. Calomne's question. The Public Prosecutor's Office, in this case the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, takes this type of act very seriously. In this regard, criminal investigations are under way, summonses to appear before the correctional court have been issued and arrest warrants have been requested from the investigating judge. A specialized magistrate is appointed to monitor such issues and to decide on the necessary criminal proceedings. There is special consultation between the police and local authorities, both within the existing consultation structures and in the case of ad hoc intervention. Since that year, it has been guaranteed that three magistrates are on duty on weekends instead of two before. In addition, the Brussels Prosecutor has ensured that in case of particular events – riots – additional magistrates may be called at night, night and weekend in order to strengthen the tenure of these three judges. The Minister of Justice also recalls some of the decisions that have been made, such as the Prosecutors' Circular establishing a stricter framework for aggressiveness towards police officers. In addition, the extension of the period of arrest from 24 hours to 48 hours has enabled the police and the judiciary to investigate more effectively and, therefore, a judgement can be handed down more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u35	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Like you and other members of this assembly, we condemn all of this violence, in this case those committed against STIB controllers, a VRT television team and police officers, acts of violence that have followed in recent days and weeks. In Charleroi and Namur, similar attacks have been recorded, which is unacceptable. Our policy in this area has always been clear: zero tolerance. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I have heard your answer as to the responsiveness of the Brussels Prosecutor's Office to these facts. It is clear that the MR Group will continue to pay attention to the fact that the Socialist Group does not dislike the means to be used to combat the resurgence of these acts of violence quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u36	Mr President, Minister, you may be forgetting all the demonstrations in the world of justice – a demonstration has taken place again recently – to denounce the cuts in your government's budget, as well as the notices of strike filed within the federal police because the police can no longer do so. I shall come back to this question in committee. I will question you and remind you of the budget cuts you are making in the police. Minister, what happened is very serious. These persons must be prosecuted and sentenced. Of course, we support workers who are incapacitated. But Brussels does not have a monopoly on crime. We've never heard you launch slogans to convince us of the need to adapt to our values when similar events take place in Antwerp or Ghent. Your role is to provide concrete answers. Minister, I will tell you something: delinquency has no origin or religion. An offender is an offender. Point on the line. And the bruxellois are better than your demonization!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u37	Madam Secretary, from various sources we get complaints about the psychiatric institution for interned Levanta in Zelzate. It's about being isolated, being placed in the solitary cell for no reason or being fixed. According to the complaints, this often happens because of messing around, because of small things, and unnecessary. The first complaints in this respect date back to 2016. At that time, people were talking about inhumane treatment. In particular, it points the finger at the direction of the institution, which would maintain an absurd regime that pushes many patients deeper into the pit rather than promoting healing. With this regime we come to the heart of the matter. Indeed, there is a great deal of uncertainty about the rules governing the internal legal status of interns. That legal status is regulated for interns in a regular prison, but is far less clear to interns in a psychiatric institution. Where there is no clear regulation, the door is, of course, open to arbitrariness. In the two FPCs this is solved by an internal regulation, even though that is not always close. In accordance with the law on patients' rights, the legal status of interns may be governed by royal decree. I have some questions about the situation, Madam Secretary, because I am concerned about it. First of all, why didn't anything ever happen to the 2016 complaint? Or has something been done about it and is it not sufficiently communicated? Secondly, you quite rightly announced an investigation. I'd like to know if that investigation is ongoing in the meantime. If not, when will it start? Who's gonna do that investigation? In what way will it be carried out? Thirdly, there is a clear gap in legal status legislation. How will you fill the gap? Will you use the royal decree in the law on patients' rights or will you make a new law?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u38	Mrs Jiroflée, thanks to a good cooperation with the Minister of Justice, we have worked out a full Master Plan for Internalisation from Health. This has already been discussed in detail in the context of the campaign 'Too Crazy'!? We have also made serious budgetary efforts to reduce the number of interns in prisons. In this legislature, their number has already fallen from more than one thousand to less than six hundred. Moreover, apart from the forensic centres, we have invested another 30 million a year in healthcare. In this context, we invested, among other things, two years ago in the new department for female interns in Zelzate. Since no women can be admitted to the forensic center in Ghent, there was a need for a high-risk institution that wanted to treat female internees. The psychiatric center in Zelzate has a lot of experience in the treatment of women and also of female interns and was willing to set up a special department for that group, which has a heavy profile. In the Levanta department, approximately 18 female interns have been received with a heavy profile since June 2016. The agreement is also that under no circumstances can they be sent back to prison, even if treatment is more difficult, because they cannot go anywhere. At the end of 2016, the Flemish Health Inspectorate stopped by. It was said at the time that the project was in a start-up phase and that it still needed work, but no problematic cases were identified. A number of appointments were made, because the department was still in its infancy. Last week, through anonymous statements in the newspaper, we learned that there may be problems there. Through my colleague, Minister Vandeurzen, I have asked for a new inspection of the Flemish Health Inspectorate. The Minister replied to the file. I have two more points. A solution would be for those interned to whom the law on patients' rights applies to to work out a domestic regulation. That's what we're doing. In the longer term, we can also look together with the Justice Department at how we can adapt the internal legal position of posted interns.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u39	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You are right when you say that you have continued to work on the basis that has been achieved by the previous government's decision on the two FPCs. That's for sure. I hear you're thinking of a house rules. We believe that we should look at a clear solution to the legal situation immediately in the long term, because I think we are dealing here with a group of severely traumatized persons, people with a serious psychiatric condition, for which we are responsible as a society. I am very pleased that we are at least in agreement on that today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u40	Madam Secretary, I know Sofie Voncken personally. I thought she was only known in Maasmechelen, but in the meantime she is known in about all of Flanders as the girl who gets up to fifty seizures a day. In recent years she has been helped by the use of cannabis oil, but in the meantime that cannabis oil is no longer available. That supply has now been taken from her and that is not explained to the people in Maasmechelen, in Flanders or even in Belgium. How do we deal with this, Madam Secretary? How can we explain to these people, not only epilepsy patients, but also people with other diseases, that the cannabis products that do help are currently not available on the market? What can we do to solve that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u41	Mr Terwingen, first of all, I am a mother and I understand the mother of the girl concerned, but I am also Minister of Health. I must therefore ensure that all pharmaceutical products, as well as other products used as medicinal products, have been proven to work and that they are safe. Research is ongoing to use cannabis as a raw material for pain control and other possible effects, but that research is not complete yet and is being completed step by step. The Sativex legislation concerns the recognition and reimbursement of a drug based on cannabis. I published a KB in 2016 that allows the possibility to add new medication to that law. In this case, however, it is something completely different: this is about growing cannabis, of which one makes an oil by some kind of process, which is then delivered to hundreds of people. That's an illegal activity. As a lawyer, you could at least confirm that, and that is not within my jurisdiction. In any case, I would like to start by proving very hard that the cannabis oil is effective, that it is pure and has no side effects except the effect it is claimed to have, but has not yet been proven. Besides, I'm not just saying that. This applies to every pharmaceutical product, let us be clear. Even with that cannabis oil, we cannot allow people to run a health risk, and certainly not children. I know about a neuropediatrist who says he's already seen children who are very bad with the use of cannabis oil. The progress of science has its own pace. Scientific research is carried out mainly in universities and pharmaceutical centres. If anyone could provide me with proof that a derivative of cannabis has the right effect for pain control or whatever and can help patients safely, I would be the first to allow it. However, I have not yet found that evidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I already asked you a question about the same case on 7 July 2015. You pointed out at that time that if the government wants to allow cannabis production, it must set up an agency to define the modalities. That's what you answered. It goes without saying that certainty about medicines must be taken very seriously. That can't be broken. For the record, I think there should be opportunities. The cultivation of cannabis for research and medical purposes is already legally permitted. I call on you to work on a number of implementing decisions which further clarify that framework. It is necessary to determine what research can be done, what cultivation can be done and how to distribute it. I think we'll be a step further. I'd also like to take a look at the Netherlands. Like my party, I am not in favour of any tolerance policy at all. Zero tolerance for cannabis and drug abuse speaks for itself. That must be preserved. However, in the Netherlands there is a company that can make and distribute these kinds of products under government control. In other words, there are solutions. You're reporting someone who's become very bad about it. I can tell you that I know at least one in Maasmechelen who has become very good. Madam Minister, if we can save one child or give it a better quality of life, then I think we should do something about it. I'd say just do it, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u43	Mr President, Minister, 'Members make the bridge'. This was the title of a 1988 film in which the director of Jean De Pesser, Baconfoy, Verassenhoven and the other colleagues had kept silent that their ministry took a bridge day and they were stuck in their office all day. The Colleagues were, of course, a caricature and times have changed considerably. I have often said in committee that officials from 40 years ago can no longer be compared with the officials of today. But of course it can always be better. Many ministers before you were ambitious, Minister, in the field of modernising public office. You too are ambitious. You want to realize before communicating. You've done a lot of things. You have been able to introduce functional bilingualism for those who evaluate it. You have repaired and harmonised the wild growth of holiday days. There was also the introduction of satellite offices, the abolition of the automatic sickness pension for people under the age of 40 and a number of other measures. You also introduced the use of interims as a temporary replacement of contractuals. The Summer Agreement also included the important principle that contractual work should become the norm in place of statutory appointments. There is now a stop, supposedly about a bridge day that one can take if one takes a holiday day. You also know, Minister, that this is not the real commitment. The ACV stated two weeks ago that, although this bridge day is the reason for this strike, the actual commitment is to maintain the statutory official as a standard. In France, the same standard still applies. In Sweden, the reduction of the statutory appointment as a standard and the alignment of working conditions with the private sector began in 1965. Denmark followed this example in 1969. In the Netherlands, the law on the standardisation of legal status will enter into force on 1 January 2020. Officials should be given the same rights and obligations as in the private sector. And then the trade unions in Belgium complain about privileges and negative assessments that hardly exist. Mr President, Minister, I come to my question. Does this mean that there have actually been no talks with the unions? Hasn't there been a meeting? Does this mean that officials in Belgium have much worse conditions than elsewhere? Minister, what is your position on this matter? Which steps will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vermeulen, in the context of modernising public service, the government has recently adopted two texts: firstly, the introduction of temporary work in the public sector and, secondly, the modernisation of the legal status of federal officials. After all, the complex statute and the way in which the status and career within the federal government are organised today do not meet the requirements that could be imposed on a modern HR policy. However, they also do not meet the wishes of people who want to work in the federal government and who actually give the best of themselves there. In addition, 25 different texts have been covered by the legislation today. We have brought these texts together. However, we have not only brought them together. At the same time, we have simplified matters for both statutory and contractual staff. We have eliminated a number of pure injustices, such as the principle of neutrality, which is extended to the contractual ones. There is also a full career with opportunities for promotion for the contractual partners, which account for 25% of our staff and are often overlooked. There will also be a new regime for the re-integration of people after a long-term illness. The evaluation procedure is also simplified. However, we also note today that there are considerable differences between the various departments in the area of leave arrangements for administrations. We therefore lay down a uniform framework, based on a general base of 35 days of annual holidays. Have we ever discussed this with the unions? We have, of course, done so. Since October 2017, we have met the unions informally a dozen times. We have also noted, however, that, at the time we are bringing the final texts to the government and before formal consultations have started, the unions have already decided to seize the most serious weapon they have, namely a strike next Monday. I'm very sorry about that. Firstly, it is at the table rather than on the street that solutions have to be found. Secondly, we note that in the meantime we have been together specifically for formal consultation twice with the unions. Now they announce that they will have three half days to discuss this important dossier in May 2018. Mr Vermeulen, you can assume from me that I deeply regret that they are taking the strike weapon, but also that by choosing the moment of their strike they are reinvigorating the wrong stereotype of the federal official, which is very unfortunate, both for the statutory and for the contractual official.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u45	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. After your explanation of how the strike came about, the key question is whether the trade unions want to maintain the status quo of privileges or cooperate in renewal. Do they fight for the privileges of the past or will they go along with things that future generations want and can pay for themselves? Do they want to join in necessary reforms? In any case, the N-VA wants to eliminate the structural discrimination currently existing between statutory and contractual entities, which may do the same work, but not the same conditions. For the N-VA, the leave scheme must also become more uniform and more consistent with what exists with employees and self-employed persons. The cumulative use of those 21 sick days a year without loss of pay is also something that can certainly be addressed. We want to inspire ourselves on good examples in other countries. We are looking in particular at the Scandinavian countries, where many of these developments have already taken place. We certainly do not focus on what exists in southern Europe. The Regions, the Communities and local authorities have already set an example of this. It may be so, but no rational argument can be found in what the trade unions are now proposing. The federal officials certainly should not continue to work as in the time of our grandfathers and fathers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u46	Minister, it was on March 24 that the government announced an agreement on budgetary control. It is a month later and in this Parliament we have still not seen anything about this control: no table, no information, no discussion. We are told that you could perhaps make an appearance on 8 May in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. I'm glad. I do not want to be impatient, but I would like to inform you, however, of the exasperation of the members of this Committee on Finance and the Budget, who have since seen the disappointments and bad news pile up. They are obliged to refer to the press to hear you say every time: "Everything is fine, Madame Marquise!" You have again postponed the arrival of a balanced budget. In the press, you manage to present this renunciation to us as excellent news. This is the alpha and omega of your government's fiscal policy. Now, wisdom is not to break the recovery in economic growth, and to postpone the arrival of a balanced budget. The Cayman tax was to raise just over 500 million euros. It is clear that this figure is not reached. Revenue amounts to €5 million. We didn't understand anything. Technically, it wasn't possible. The 500 million are not here, but they must be somewhere. It is not possible that there is a hole, and we are obliged to believe you on word, failing to receive any encrypted information from you. The opposition is not the only one with states of soul. Europe is concerned today about the government's inconsistencies with regard to the deduction of interest charges, while this is an important part of the corporate tax reform. You will probably tell us that Europe is wrong, that you are going to explain it to him, and that there will be no problem. Let me tell you that beyond the opposition and the control bodies, in your own party, an important member, namely the Minister for Budget of the Walloon Region, is astonished at the lack of information. Within the framework of the concertation committee, he was concerned about the disappearance of inheritance rights which should fall within the scarcelle of the Walloon regional budget. Even within the MR, there is some concern about the lack of reliability of information from the federal government. Madam Budget Minister, why are you running away from the Finance and Budget Committee? Why do we need only two minutes of oral questions in plenary to be able to examine the substance and practical aspects of the elements contained in this budgetary control?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u47	Minister, Mr Dispa just recalled that a little more than a month ago, you were holding a press conference with the Prime Minister on budgetary adjustment. At this press conference, the Prime Minister committed to providing the budget tables quickly to parliamentarians. A month later, we still don't have them. We have expressed our concern to the Chairman of the Finance Committee, as we have expressed our concern to him about the lack of a budget debate in the Finance Committee. Not only have we been concerned about this, but we have also expressed our dissatisfaction because, I must tell you, Madam Minister, you have been very discreet about the budget lately. Yes, you have a number of comments in the press, in particular to announce the postponement of the budgetary balance to 2020. It was first 2019. Now we learn that it's 2020 when you set yourself the 2018 target. At the same time, it is learned that there is increasing uncertainty about the estimated budgetary performance of certain measures, particularly the Cayman tax. I thank the sp.a group for pointing out the problem, my colleague Vanvelthoven in particular. Five hundred million programmed in the budget but which seem to be disappearing today, a disappearance confirmed by the Minister of Finance who invents a farfetched apology. So, minister, where are those 500 million? Have you had a discussion with the Minister of Finance? In addition, I must also recall, the excellent article in the weekly Le Vif, which shows a carpentry demonstration and demonstrates the manipulation of tax statistics with regard to the fight against tax fraud, in particular the figures of the Special Tax Inspectorate. It's starting to do a lot! Minister, we need explanations!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u48	Mr President, Mr Dispa and Mr Laaouej, thank you for your questions. Because there are many of them, I will answer one by one. As you know, as we announced in the Committee on Finance and the Budget, the budget tables will be distributed as soon as the notifications have been validated by the Council of Ministers. This was done on Monday morning at the first hour. Certainly - and we sent an e-mail to the committee mentioned as soon as we realized the difficulty - if the Chancellery posted them Monday morning on our website, a problem of manipulation arose, so that the communication did not appear there. Once we noticed this mistake, we sent an e-mail to the Finance and Budget Committee, which I can show you, to explain the situation. So, there's no malpractice about that. With respect to discussions on budgetary changes, I would remind you that the legislation provides that the government table the budget in the House before April 30th. In my opinion, that is already the case. Moreover, it is the Committee on Finance and the Budget which calls for the Court of Auditors to be able to examine the budget documents even before the start of the budgetary debate. Then we have two weeks left. As far as I am concerned, we can very well start the budgetary debate immediately; I have no problem with that. It is only at the request of the committee that we begin this only after receiving the report from the Court of Auditors. Honestly, that is not pointless, since this document must feed our discussions. I do not complain, but that explains the long delays. You call me "discreet." Perhaps it is part of my personality; to each one his own kind. That said, I'm still here when I'm called to answer the questions. I was still here last week to present the 2016 accounts, Mr.Laaouej. Let me remind you that I have not been asked any questions in committee or in plenary. [[Not one!]] The report has not even been mentioned. However, if there is a time in Parliament when budgetary forecasts can be compared with the reality observed, it is when the accounts are published. Yet I was not asked any questions! Again, I am at your disposal. If you're not interested, it's no big deal! As far as the balance is concerned, you know, Mr Laaouej, Mr Dispa, that since the beginning we have been working on two areas: fiscal consolidation and economic recovery. Fiscal consolidation can be seen. The Institute of National Accounts' latest report on the 2017 accounts indicates that the nominal balance for 2014 was -3.1% before the current government took on responsibilities. The budget is then judged to be excessive deficit by Europe. The 2017 account, validated by the Institute of National Accounts, shows a deficit of -1%. This means a division by 3 of the budget deficit in three years and the creation of 177,000 jobs. We do not have to blush with this result! Since, since this mandate, the reports have finally been given to Parliament in time, I am sure that we will be able to discuss the 2017 budgetary results as soon as they are tabled again this year. For the information of Mr Dispa, who talks about what he has read in the press about possible relations between the Walloon Budget Minister and the federal government, I assure him: relations are excellent. Mr Crucke did indeed have questions, as he has the right and as is his duty. Mr. Van Overtveldt had, I think, the opportunity to respond. Finally, with regard to the fiscal trajectory and the stability programme, Wallonia has just agreed to a balance in 2020. That's if we're on the same wavelength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u49	Minister of the Budget, you are being asked about budgetary control and you tell us that you regret that you did not have a question about the 2016 accounts of the federal state. You are pleased that the Walloon Region has agreed to a return to fiscal balance by 2020. That's his position from the beginning. It's your position that's changed. It is on your position that we wish to have elements of answer and not on that of the Walloon Region. You're telling us that Mr. Cricke has received answers. We'd like to know which ones. We too would like to have some answers, not only to Mr Cricke's questions on regional taxes but also to all the problems we have just mentioned. And you tell us that you are available when the Court of Auditors reports, as if we were the ones who play the watch and delay the discussion. In fact, we are asking no better than to get into the heart of the matter, since you are making communications on the basis of the government agreement. Come and introduce him. Come and present the parameters. Obviously, it is impossible because today we are obliged to believe you on word. Objectively, for a minister of the budget, it's a little short.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u50	Minister, you are telling us that if you postpone the budget balance to 2020, two years after the target initially announced, it is because you do not want to slow the recovery of the economy. But the revival of the economy, it is you who have suffocated it with your austerity policy since the beginning of the legislature. This postponement of the budgetary balance is the result of the failure of your economic policy which leads to a budgetary failure. That's the reality you're trying to hide. So you drown the fish with procedures, with a certain amount of questionable information, in particular the fact that you forgot to say that your government refused a budget debate at the time you presented your agreement on the 2018 adjustment. I would add that there were governments where, in the aftermath of an agreement on which there was a communication, the notifications were ready. The real problem is that you didn't agree at the time you made your tedious communication. Meanwhile, recipes that had been inflated at Botox are again falling. In addition, there are these statistics manipulated by the Minister of Finance in terms of performance in the fight against tax evasion. But one thing is certain: you will, once again, return the bill to the households to whom you are going to ask for important sacrifices, as if you had not already asked them enough. This is the real scandal, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u51	Minister, on Friday, April 28, a decisive vote will be held for the protection of bees. Who says protection of bees says protection of life! We all know, we need pollinator insects to get the reproduction of plants and, simply, to feed ourselves! Since 2013, the European Union has introduced a moratorium on the use of the most dangerous neonicotinoids. For the past year, there have been discussions at European level, studies are commissioned, votes are constantly postponed. Today, the European Commission is making a proposal to ban the use of neonicotinoid pesticides outright. Minister, I heard you on the radio this morning. We're just a few hours away from the vote, but in your interview, you said you were still thinking. You may be supporting the ban, but you are also trying to get an additional transition, even though it has been known since 2013 that these products are dangerous. Minister, all the studies converge. To the question of whether to ban neonicotinoids, the answer can only be yes! They must be banned without asking for phasing out, without asking for a transitional period. They must be banned by being honest, without asking for successive derogations of a few days. The Belgian position must be clear, clear and honest for the benefit of farmers and beet growers. You say you want to protect them but they are now crushed because of the use of this type of pesticides, with what they involve in terms of intensive cultivation, lower prices and the requirement for sugar levels – which is unattainable! Beet growers are strangled by current policy!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u52	Mr President, Minister, as my colleague has just said, tomorrow will be a decisive day since a committee of experts from the 28 European countries will have to decide on a proposal from the European Commission to permanently ban the use of certain neonicotinoids in agriculture. These products are known to harm wild and domestic bees as well as many other pollinating insects. The key role of pollinating insects for the prosperity of the agricultural sector and the maintenance of biodiversity is no longer to be demonstrated: 76% of European food production depends on them at global level and it is estimated that the economic ratio is EUR 150 billion. Apart from this aspect of biodiversity, it appears that these neonicotinoids are also toxic to human health. For example, it has been shown that some of them have an adverse effect on certain episodes of brain development. Minister, the agricultural sector has concerns. I think that at some point farmers must be helped to go over and, through research and development, to do otherwise. The balance of votes tomorrow at the Committee of Experts is obviously decisive. We'll have to position ourselves clearly. Belgium's vote is important. I would remind you that there are other products that can exceed the pesticides that are injected for these crops. Minister, you will represent Belgium on this committee of experts. What position will you take at European level on this ban? You have the key in your hands. I hope the answer will be "yes" to the ban. I would remind you that in other assemblies decisions have been taken almost unanimously to ask for this ban. I particularly stress your positive response in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u53	Mr President, Mrs Gerkens, Mr de Lamotte, this is indeed an important issue for our environment and for pollinating insects but also for our farmers. The role played by bees in diversity is known to be important. The effects of neonicotinoids on them are known, although in Belgium they are used in less quantities than elsewhere. Mrs Gerkens, I thought we shared the same point of view. We share it, in fact, that we need to get out of the neonicotinoids. As I said, we need a phasing out to get out. I have done nothing more than join the Ecolo proposal – which is yours, Mrs Gerkens – to foresee, as you have tabled it, a three-year phasing out as part of the release of neonicotinoids. I am therefore surprised by your statements today about the need for no longer to respect a transitional period, whereas in your text you indicated it. I don't want to move on in this case on my own. I am listening to both Parliament and experts. It is in this sense that I have sought the opinion of the Faculty of Gembloux which tells me that the absence of this type of treatment will make the beet and chicory chains unprofitable, which will inevitably lead to their dismantling in the very short term. With regard to these issues, I must be a minimum listening to a sector in difficulty. Mr de Lamotte, I had a telephone contact with Minister Collin yesterday, and I heard him worried about the agricultural sector. You should talk between Ecolo and cdH in order to align each other to a number of positions. Today, the agricultural sector accounts for more than 8,000 jobs. We need a transitional period. Mrs Gerkens, in your text tabled in the House, you indicated that there is no alternative and you confirmed what was stated in the opinion of the Faculty of Gembloux, that the tracks that have been assessed and studied today are not sufficiently credible. They are even worse in a number of cases in terms of impact. That is what has been communicated to me in the opinions that have been given to me. It's very clear: yes, we're going to position ourselves tomorrow for an exit. But I wrote to the Commissioner responsible asking her, as you wished, Mrs Gerkens, that this could be done in a short period of time, but at the same time ensuring a transition for the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u54	Minister, you see, I take into account, and Ecolo-Groen takes into account, the evolution of studies and research. The latest research that has been requested to clarify all these doubts about the existence of alternatives and the need for a transition has prompted the European Commission to propose an immediate ban. Minister, the texts that I have tabled and that I have been trying to work in the Health Committee for a very long time... [[Brouhahaha]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u55	Let Mrs. Gerkens speak!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u56	What is the normal purpose of parliamentary work? To submit texts, to discuss them, to collect data, to amend these texts if necessary, to have them adopted. I take it from what you say that if our text provides for an exit, you will support it and that, finally, our Health Committee will be able to decide on the ban on neonicotinoids. Minister, one last word on alternatives. Alternatives are not just other chemicals. Experiences are taking place in other countries. Let us trust our farmers. There are agricultural practices. They can learn to grow again without the need for such products, using other farming practices, with other yields surely. I am also counting on you to discuss with the agri-food sector to ensure that it respects farmers and pays them decent prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u57	Minister, I take note of your answer. The sector needs a clear position and it will be necessary tomorrow to adopt such a position in order to move forward. I also remind you of all the research and development work that is also being done – since you have cited the Faculty of Gembloux – within the framework of the Walloon Centre for Agricultural Research. Important work is being done and new processes are being put in place to allow beet and chicory producers to have another type of action and not to harm the sector. I therefore particularly stress, Minister, the importance of having clear dates so that the sector can position itself. We still have a year under this legislature. Positions must be taken tomorrow in order to have a clear vision for the future. The sector must position itself in the sense that this ban on neonicotinoids is appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u58	Minister, every year more than 100,000 Belgians become independent entrepreneurs. Today, a significant part of these are quinquennials who are embarking on this new professional adventure. I assure you, I am delighted. For many of them, it is an opportunity to give a sense of meaning to their working lives, to realize a dream or, sometimes, to recover from dismissal. This morning, you delivered figures in the form of a scoreboard from the SME Observatory. This shows that there were 11,166 starters over the age of 50 in 2011, and that the number rose to 15,593. That's a 40% increase. That figure is calling me. As we know, the government's action in favour of the self-employed and entrepreneurship encourages many people. We have been working in this area, we have been working on it for several years and we will continue. What do you think explains these numbers? Do you have any different reasons to explain to us today? Do you have examples among the areas of activity to which the five-year-olds who become independent tend to go?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u59	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, in fact, the figures given to us concerning the general increase in the number of self-employed are extremely satisfactory. From the end of 2014 until the end of 2017, no less than 5.94 per cent of the self-employed have declared themselves in our country. You are right: we notice an extremely large increase in the number of starters who are quinquennials. Between 2011 and 2016, their number increased by almost 40%. In which occupational categories are these self-employed engaged? It is the trade chain that has the most success. This can be satisfied, because we need local businesses and 32% of these self-employed people are dedicated to them. The liberal professions are also popular in this age group, at 29.4 per cent. It's not the fruit of chance. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have advanced a series of issues for the independents, which we could not have advanced in the past with the Socialist Party. I am thinking of the equalisation of minimum pensions, the creation of the right of access, the second pillar of the pension, the reduction of the month of waiting to 14 days. This means that today, when you want to become independent, you can do so with much more security than before. Social status has made the self-employed career much more attractive. Beyond that, we have made a number of efforts at the level of social contributions and their reduction. We gave oxygen to the independents. The measure we voted in the House at the beginning of the year will further set the stage for the starters. In a number of cases, according to their income, those who commit themselves as self-employed will also be able to benefit from a reduction in their contributions in the first year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for the completeness of your answer. I really want to highlight the work of this government that promotes the opportunity to undertake, the installation of the self-employed, which supports them and takes the appropriate steps to do so, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, the Dutroux affair was about 20 years ago. This was about missing minors and messing around in investigations, about which thousands of civilians expressed their indignation with the White Mars. Today, the Federal State Department of Justice releases the number 618. That is the number of unaccompanied minors who disappeared from the radar in Belgium last year. Where are those kids? Are they with family or friends? Did they end up in prostitution or do they do child labour? Or worse, are they the victims of organ theft? Child Focus sees more and more children missing organs. Mr Secretary of State, I have already asked you about this in the past. You replied that we do not really know much about this. Child Focus talks about 124 minor refugees disappearing. Sixty-six cases have not been resolved; 66 children have disappeared in Belgium, but is anyone looking for them? We can't see it. We see different numbers and estimates. We see too little communication and cooperation between different agencies. We don't see enough motivation to look for those kids. That is what our colleague in the European Parliament, Hilde Vautmans van Open Vld, says. We see that too little information is available, for example through an app for those children, and we see too few guardians and confidants. Mr Secretary of State, I have just one question. You said at the beginning of the legislature that unaccompanied minors are a priority for you. What will you do for the missing unaccompanied minors? Will you set up a concrete action plan for this purpose?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u62	Mr Secretary of State, last year in June there was the poignant story of Brahim in the premises of the Foreign Office. Last week, the theme of unaccompanied minors was again brought to the attention of my party mate Hilde Vautmans. I'd like to quote her because she put it in a very good way. She says, "If our cat Minous disappears, the whole neighborhood will know immediately. If our own children disappear, they'll be notified to Child Focus within the hour. But who cares about these children?" How many kids are we talking about? Almost 618 unaccompanied minors, more than four times the number of members in the hemisphere, disappeared last year, of which only 124 were registered with Child Focus. If these young people disappear in their search for a better and safe future, that is a ticket to hell for them, as the Commissioner has called it. Mrs De Coninck has already said it: prostitution, child labour and who knows what is more than their fate. Are we doing our best, Mr Secretary of State? Certainly, there are the services of Child Focus, who work hard, the services of DVZ, of Justice. However, we must do more to protect them, because that figure cannot be tolerated. We need to do more in terms of registration, because today this is hardly happening in terms of information, custody, faster procedures and reception. Last year, following the story of Brahim Bakali, you announced that the 2008 protocol had to be amended or rewritten. You also said that you wanted to set up a new Task Force on Disappearances. Well, we're almost a year later, but the problem is still very big. Mr Secretary of State, what is the state of play for your announced measures? Finally, the European Commission has proposed a list of 37 measures to improve the protection of such young people. Where are we on the transposition of these measures in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the succession of unaccompanied minors is a task for the Justice Department, in particular the Voogdij Service, and, of course, the public prosecutors. I am solely responsible for the reception and the residence procedure. Nevertheless, we are following closely the problem of missing minor asylum seekers. To this end, there was a long discussion today with the members of the Task Force on Disappearances of Underage Foreigners. That task force, which I set up last year, meets regularly, as this morning from 10 a.m. to 12 noon, to discuss the protocols. The debate is difficult; therefore it is not easy to find a consensus on a revision of those protocols. I think we can reach an agreement on registration, but there are still some issues in the government; indeed there are several ministers responsible. Our services are making every effort to monitor and guide these young people as closely as possible. Immediately after arrival, a separate route of reception is provided for them. In Phase 1 they end up in one of the four special observation and orientation centres for minors, where they stay until their age survey is completed. If the minority is accepted, they will be referred to special reception structures for unaccompanied minor aliens, which is phase 2 and ultimately to small-scale municipal local reception initiatives of the OCMWs or to a foster family, phase 3. Thanks to the expertise and commitment of all these employees, these young people are offered a warm home that they have often never known in their home country. But, as is the case with any kind of care provision, we can only help those who want to be helped. Last year, Fedasil registered 146 cases of unaccompanied underage foreigners who refused to receive Fedasil pertinent. It is not compulsory to take care of them. I cannot oblige these young people to remain in an open reception structure. Many young people disappear. You're saying the registration needs to be improved. The registration has never been so good. In the past, there was no registration. You are now saying that the number has gone from 120 to 600. That's not because there are more. That's just because now every disappearance is always registered and reported. That didn't even happen before. Now, that does not solve the problem, but it is good that we are doing this, I believe. Previously there was no registration, now there is registration. There is indeed a strong increase. Is it a new phenomenon? Are there any new filières? I don't think so. I think the number has always been high. We are, of course, concerned with the consequences of the European migration crisis. Many people, including young people, are still stuck in Italy or Greece. I think the number has always been high but it has not been registered. After all, care is not compulsory. In addition, there is a group that changes their mind on arrival at the shelter and suddenly withdraws from our help. The vast majority of these disappearances, 494 out of 600, take place during the first orientation phase in which the medical age determination has not yet been completed. Before we know how old they are, many have already left. Many say they're underage but they're not. That's what the bone scans we're doing show. More than 70% of those statements appear to be incorrect. We're talking about adults. Many young adults travel on their own initiative to another Member State. This is a practice that we have been dealing with for a long time, but which does not appear to be able to deal with without affecting the rights of those who are underage and the open reception model. The medical age studies take time. With a bone scan like this, it's really well investigated whether someone is an adult or a minor. These procedures must be followed, but often they will be gone before we know exactly how old they are. Shall we lock them up? No. It's an open shelter. I think we'll keep it. How can one say to a 16-year-old or 17-year-old person that he is not allowed to travel? In an open reception structure? Often they take a shower, eat something and are gone. And they travel on, because they go to brother, sister, to family. In the group that flows to the separate youth shelter, there were only 76 disappearances, of which barely 33 could not be explained immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make it clear that there are still 33 too many, because every disappearance is too many, and I absolutely agree with that. We must therefore follow these disappearances closely, through cooperation protocols with the police and through contacts with European colleagues. Fast contact with other European countries appears to be crucial. We're working on it. It is a very difficult problem, but we will certainly come up with new protocols before the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u64	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, with all due respect, you are talking about the past, but you have been working for four years. You say that it is all very complex, with procedures and many actors. Five years ago, you said that everything is easy to solve if one wants to. I am glad that you have discovered that reality is sometimes very complex. However, I do not accept that so many children disappear in this country. I believe that there should be a priority action plan, not just from the whole government. In the case of organ theft, the Minister of Health must also be involved, as must the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice and the Public Prosecutor. There must be signs to the police that such disappearances must be taken seriously. Once family violence was a priority, you may as well make this item a priority in all domains. We owe it to those children who are on the run.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u65	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. I do not have any ambition in that regard to bring down that too high a figure. You said last year that the 2008 protocol will be strengthened, that it will be difficult and that it will not progress quickly, but I believe that this should be one of your priorities. Let that protocol be strengthened and ensure that these negotiations are brought to a successful conclusion. You say that you are in favour of a strict but humane asylum policy. That human being is more than ever in this debate. It's about minors. You say that they want to be helped, but it is about minors and they still need to be protected, including from themselves. That's your assignment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, the new law on privacy will enter into force on 25 May. This is about protecting our privacy through the transposition of a European directive two years ago. It concerns the collection and processing of data. People should also be able to see and change their data. We all think that protection of our privacy is more and more important, but this also brings with it a lot of obligations for the companies. However, this also applies to a large number of private associations, which do not find their way directly. It appears that this is difficult for associations, such as non-profit organisations. I note that the Privacy Commission has a roadmap for this on its website. Today, however, I read that the same Privacy Commission states that we are not ready. The government defaults because of the lack of a framework law. If I've got it right, it's now with the Council of State for advice. There is also a need for sectoral codes of conduct and directives. On the one hand, it is necessary to look at how people have access to their data, but on the other hand it must all be made operational. Both companies and non-profit organisations are therefore confronted with this. Mr Secretary of State, when will the legislation be ready, so that public enterprises and municipalities are also in order? We are now getting a lot of private companies offering to help us for a fee, but it should actually be easier. When will this legislation be ready? In what way are you going to help the associations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u67	Mrs Becq, I must say that I am somewhat sorry about what has been said this morning. After all, the Privacy Commission is precisely the institution that should remove the uncertainty among the people. It must inform and give guidelines, especially when it comes to certification, for example. You also referred to the sectoral codes of conduct. There must be an agreement on this between the sectors and the Privacy Commission, something that has not yet been done. That's a shame, actually. The Privacy Commission employs sixty people who try to provide accurate information day and night, trying to help and reassure companies and organisations. They are now also being put in a bad light, even though they are trying very hard. My conclusion is that this proves once again that the reform of the Privacy Commission was really necessary. This reform was adopted unanimously in Parliament in December. The appointment of the new directors is now also in the pipeline. Parliament has asked for these appointments to be taken into its own hands, and I call for them to be speeded up so that the appointments can be made in time and the new, modern Privacy Commission can start on 25 May. The framework law was already adopted by the Council of Ministers at first reading. In the meantime, we have received and are studying the opinion of the Council of State. There may soon be a number of changes to the framework law that we will be submitting to Parliament before 25 May. For the record, the framework law doesn't change the GDPR. The GDPR is a regulation that becomes directly applicable. It does not change the rights of citizens or the obligations of businesses and public authorities. In the meantime, the government has appointed DPOs and prepared registers, so I think sufficient efforts have been made to ensure that Belgium can maintain its head position in the field of privacy protection and that all citizens can sleep on their two ears that the GDPR is correctly implemented in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u68	Mr Secretary of State, I do not think that non-profit organisations and individuals have a message to say that the responsible State Secretary says that the committee should do that work, but has not done that. It is important that Parliament and the Secretary of State assume their responsibilities and ensure that the legislation is ready in time. The committee must be set up, but the legislation has only been adopted at the last minute. We have all worked together to set up a new committee. The people who already work there will continue to work there. Employment is guaranteed there. It is important that we send the message that we want to help companies and non-profit organisations step by step in developing the privacy regulations in concrete terms, because a regulation contains general guidelines. It is a question of its practical application.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u69	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u70	At the request of the Government and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 April 2018, I propose that the draft law amending the Consular Code, Nos 2989/1 to 4, be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. At the request of the government and in accordance with the advice of the Conference of Presidents of April 25, 2018, I propose that you place on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill amending the Consular Code, Nos. 2989/1 to 4. I propose that the discussion of the draft laws begin with this point. I suggest that you begin the discussion of the bills with this item. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u71	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u72	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u73	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? [[No, no, ……]] The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u74	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2989/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2989/4) The inscription in Dutch was amended by the Committee in draft law amending the Consular Code." The title in Dutch has been changed by the committee to 的 wetsontwerp tot wijzing van het Consulair Wetboek". The draft law has 25 articles. The bill has 25 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u75	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u76	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u77	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u78	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2941/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2941/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u79	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u80	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u82	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2954/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2954/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u83	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u84	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Grovonius, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u85	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2955/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2955/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u86	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u87	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u89	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2962/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2962/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u90	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u91	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u92	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u93	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2963/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2963/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u94	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u95	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u96	Mr. Chairman, I still expected the minister to be present at the meeting. In fact, when we discussed the bill, the members of the commission supported the need to identify criteria that objectively distribute subsidies to environmental associations' cupolas, and we asked her about the criteria that will be included in the Royal Decree on the granting of these subsidies. She told us that the decree was being drafted and that it would be taken in a few weeks. Since then, a month has passed. Today, I would have liked to have questioned her so that she can confirm that the order has been made and that she gives us a list of these criteria. Indeed, the latter are taken into account when it comes to our appreciation of the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u97	The minister is not present, which I can understand as long as the bill has been adopted unanimously. In addition, the government is represented since a minister and a secretary of state are present in this forum. The plenary session could, of course, be suspended, but you have not made a request to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u98	Mr President, I believe that his presence would be desirable in order to respond to my concern. But I am alone in making this request, which is a bit of a pity. Anyway, it would be interesting to have this information. In committee, Mr Senesael also asked a question to that effect. The minister said she would give us the information we requested, which is not the case. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u99	We can postpone the point or we can decide to wait 10 minutes to allow him to join us. Anyway, there's no rush. It also has the opportunity to forward the information to Minister Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u100	Mr President, it is clear that the objectives were shared unanimously by the members of the committee. At the committee, the minister committed herself to giving us in plenary the content of the order. It seems to me that it would make sense for it to send us, during the discussion of the other items on the agenda, the content of this order through a representative of the government. But his presence is always appreciated, of course, in this assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u101	It is clear, knowing the minister, that the criteria are objective. I don't see any other possible qualifier. I think that already responds to Mr Nollet's concerns. In reply to Mrs Gerkens, it is true that between a few weeks and a month there is a possible appreciation. If we're six weeks away, we're beyond the month. However, we will indeed ask whether further information can be provided. Since the Secretary of State is present, we will ask that this be done through his channel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u102	Does it suit you if the Secretary of State promises to give us the answers to the questions? He will contact Minister Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u103	Mr President, I will contact Mrs Marghem to pass on the question and ask her to inform the Chamber. Do you want this to happen now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u104	Let's be clear. Anyone asking for the Minister's presence? I'll contact the minister's cabinet. We shall suspend the sitting. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u105	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u106	Colleagues, we were stuck with a number of questions raised by Minister Marghem's draft. She has informed me that Secretary of State De Crem has the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u107	Mr President, the minister informed me that the text had been voted unanimously in committee and that she had suggested that the criteria should be set at a later stage by royal decree, therefore in good time. She therefore asked me to repeat this message to you in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u108	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, that is what I explained to you: in committee, the minister had indicated that she would specify the criteria in a decree, which would be ready a few weeks later, especially for the plenary session. My question, therefore, is not whether criteria will be included in an order. She had told us in committee, indeed. Our question related to the content of the decrees: what are the criteria in terms of organisation, dome, etc.- Is that what you're saying? I can invent 50,000 kinds of "objective" criteria, some being sensible and others not. In short, I suppose that means that the order has not yet been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u109	Mr President, in order for the sitting to move forward, I propose that the vote be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u110	Mr President, it is the government that is asking for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u111	Basically, if we go into the Secretary of State's suggestion, we'll just take the item off the agenda and discuss it another time. Can everyone agree to that? [[Assent]] That is the decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u112	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Daniel Senesael, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u113	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2785/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2785/3) The title was amended by the Committee in draft law approving the cooperation agreement of 12 May 2017 between the Federal State, the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region and the Brussels Capital Region on the implementation of Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the voluntary participation of organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS) and repealing Regulation (EC) No. 761/2001 and Commission Decisions 2001/681/EC and 2006/193/EC'. The title has been amended by the committee in draft law approving the Cooperation Agreement of 12 May 2017 between the Federal State, the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region and the Brussels-Capital Region on the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 concerning the voluntary participation of organisations in a Community environmental management and audit system (EMAS) and repealing Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 and Commission Decisions 2001/681/EC and 2006/193/EC". The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u115	By letter of 20 April 2018, the President of the Senate stated that, in accordance with Article 32, § 1quater, first paragraph, of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reform, the Senate, delivered a reasoned opinion to the Consultation Committee at its plenary session of 20 April 2018 on the conflict of interest with regard to the draft law on economic relance and the strengthening of social cohesion (Act No. 421/4 and documents Room Nos 2839/1 to 19). By letter of 20 April 2018, the President of the Senate communicates that in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 32 § 1stquater of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reforms, the Senate, during its plenary session of 20 April 2018, issued a reasoned opinion to the Conciliation Committee on the conflict of interest concerning the draft law on economic recovery and the strengthening of social cohesion (doc. Senate No. 421/4 and Doc. Chamber Nos. 2839/1 to 19).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u116	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 April 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Mr Elio Di Rupo, André Frédéric, Daniel Senesael and Alain Mathot) amending the law on compulsory medical care and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994, with a view to ensuring that the costs of visits and consultations in general medicine, preventive, protective and remedial dental care as well as psychological and psychotherapeutic care are borne entirely by compulsory medical care insurance, No. 3052/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u117	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq cs) continuing to assist young people in reaching the age of majority, No. 3053/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u118	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq cs) amending the Royal Decree of 21 December 1967 laying down the general rules on retirement and survivors' pensions for employed persons, as regards the pension rights of members of the family, No. 3054/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u119	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 April 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Ms. Laurette Onkelinx and MM. Elio Di Rupo, André Frédéric, Daniel Senesael and Alain Mathot) amending the law relating to compulsory health care insurance and allowances coordinated on 14 July 1994, aiming at the full coverage by compulsory health care insurance and allowances for visits and consultations in general medicine, preventive, conservative and repair dental care and psychological and psychotherapeutic care, No. 3052/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u120	- the proposal for a law (Ms. Sonja Becq et al.) to extend assistance to young people beyond the age of majority, No. 3053/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u121	- the proposal for a law (Ms Sonja Becq et al.) amending the Royal Decree of 21 December 1967 on the general regulation of the retirement and survivors' pension scheme for employed persons with regard to the pension rights of accepted guests, No. 3054/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u122	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u123	These motions were tabled in the plenary session of 25 April 2018. These motions were tabled in plenary on April 25, 2018. Four motions were tabled in the following chronological order: - a first motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen. A second motion was tabled by Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr David Clarinval and Mr Conseil Degroote, Mrs Sophie De Wit, Mr Gilles Foret and Mr Werner Janssen, Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot and Mr Vincent Van Peteghem and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne. - a third motion was tabled by Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mr Eric Massin. - a fourth motion was tabled by Mr Francis Delpérée. Four motions were filed in the following chronological order: - a first motion was tabled by Mr. Dirk Van der Maelen. - a second motion was tabled by Mrs Sonja Becq, MM. David Clarinval and Koenraad Degroote, Sophie De Wit, MM. Gilles Foret et Werner Janssen, Mme Goedele Uyttersprot et MM. Vincent Van Peteghem et Vincent Van Quickenborne. - a third motion was tabled by Ms. Karine Lalieux and Mr. Eric Massin. - a fourth motion was tabled by Mr. Francis Delperée. I propose that you vote on the motions in the chronological order of referral. I propose that you vote on the motions in chronological order of their tabling. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u124	Mr President, there is good news and only news. The good news is that we have reached a far-reaching consensus with the Committee of Inquiry on a series of findings. The bad news is that colleagues from the majority of N-VA, MR, CD&V and Open Vld unfortunately do not dare, want or can draw the conclusions from these far-reaching findings. For these reasons, our group has tabled an alternative report in the form of a motion. Firstly, it states that we believe that after the establishment of heavy lobbying activities based on the diamond sector, this Chamber needs a much stricter regulation along the lines of what exists in the Council of Europe's GRECO and in other countries. That's what this majority doesn't want. Secondly, we are also aware that our work is not finished. There are judicial investigations in Belgium and France. Especially in France, we hope to get much more information about what is called "influence from France." That is why we conclude our motion with an appeal to the Chamber to resume work after the judicial investigations in France and Belgium have been completed and to check whether political conclusions have been drawn from the judicial investigations. For this reason, at the end of our motion, we propose that the Chamber should not leave it at that and resume its work after the end of the judicial investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u125	Mr President, I would like to say a few words to those Members who were unable to be here yesterday during the plenary debate, and that was quite a few words. There was only a handful of MPs present. However, you yourself said that it was an interesting debate. The reason for our committee was whether or not that law had been passed in order to solve the problems of Mr Chodiev and his associates. That was the key question and it was also the reason for the creation of this committee in this Chamber. For the sake of fairness, even Mr Van der Maelen, people have to admit that the answer to that question is actually 'no'. That is the secce conclusion of sixteen months' work by the Committee of Inquiry. That is why my group, and undoubtedly other groups, will not approve Mr van der Maelen's motion, which I think is biased.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u126	Mr President, I propose not to repeat the debate, which has already lasted a few hours. I refer colleagues who were not present to the excellent report that has already been produced by the services. But I would simply like to say, for those who have not followed our work, that reality is not as simple as Mr. Van Quickenborne is trying to summarize it. Even if the report is not commensurate with the seriousness of the facts which we have observed, since the majority voted out of the report and too negative assessments were not taken, as well as innovative recommendations, we are dealing here with very worrying facts which merited the establishment of a committee of inquiry. We are very curious to know the judicial follow-up. It was a case that required 16 months of work, in particularly difficult circumstances. The facts which led to the establishment of this committee of inquiry have been described as a State case and we are not withdrawing anything from what we have been able to say on this subject, at the end of this work, which will be punished in a few minutes by a vote. If none of the amendments proposed by the opposition colleagues are accepted, we will not be able to vote on this report. In fact, unfortunately and despite many hours of work, he is not up to the gravity of the facts observed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u127	Mr President, like Mr Gilkinet, I believe that we should not repeat a debate which has been particularly long and of high quality. However, if proposals are now on the table, beyond the report, it is simply because it has shortcomings, on the one hand, and shortcomings in terms of political conclusions, positions and policy recommendations, on the other. This is the case with regard to what has been put forward clearly, namely interference by the French State, particularly through the Elysée. I thought I had convinced my dear colleague, David Clarinval, when he went up to the gallery saying I was right. That is why we have tabled a recommendation calling for the Foreign Minister to question his counterpart or the President of the French Republic to tell him that what France did in 2010 and 2011 is a real scandal. It's coming under the heading. I hope that Mr Clarinval's words are not in vain and that he will thus vote for the motion for a resolution tabled by the PS Group. Beyond that, five minutes of political courage are at least necessary to press a button and show that what we did during those sixteen months was not in vain and that, contrary to what some claim, all this must not be swept away with a back of the hand. Five hundred pages are here to prove it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a committee of inquiry that gives birth to a mouse. So the mountain gives birth to a mouse. The PTB had been excluded from this commission of inquiry, which is not surprising because it was necessary to guarantee a certain self. Is it surprising that it does not lead to anything, knowing that, in the end, the investigators were investigating themselves? The MR was to investigate the involvement of the MR in the political debate under the influence of the Kazakh trio. The CD&V or the Open Vld on the influence of the diamond lobby via itself. In doing so, how can we imagine that this commission could have led to something other than a "circulez, there is nothing to see"? Even according to Mr. Van Quickenborne, this commission should not have been set up, it was useless. Indeed, the dice were punctured from the start. However, if we can read between the lines of the report, we can still see that some elements are included in it. As a small party, we do not have access to all the other documents, to the recommendations that the majority refused to vote, to the hearings in camera. In the report we have access to, reading between the lines, we do see that there is more than just a state scandal. It reveals the real functioning of the behind-the-scenes of capitalism, the permanent conflicts of interest that exist between economic power and political power within this establishment that is so well understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u129	Mr President, we had a good debate yesterday, and we also spoke a lot and a long time in committee meetings. We heard 177 witnesses. Colleagues, we have not avoided anything. The report has 492 pages. At the end of the ride we don't have a tuxedo gun. Even if that is not the truth one wanted to see confirmed, one often leaves with one's own agenda, it would adorn everyone to acknowledge that. Those who were there yesterday could see that even the loudest callers admitted that there was no tuxedo gun. Mr Van Hees, you are making populist statements all the time, just now. You discovered the report on the scene yesterday. I don't think that's serious. Again, we didn't find a tuxedo gun. We have done some serious work. We've heard a lot of witnesses. We have received and read a lot of documentation. You must therefore dare to say that what is not there is not. One can dream of it and haunt it and pursue it, but if we don't find it, it's time to finish the ghostbuster uniform, stop the ghost hunt and move on to the order of the day. Recommendations were made, which I fully support. Unlike some others, who might have preferred to have seen greater spectacle value, I am very relieved that in this building, in our temple of democracy, what some claim to have not continued to claim and insinuate has not happened. I invite everyone to read the report. Whoever reads the report will notice that there was no tuxedo gun. I therefore fully support the report which we are going to adopt today. The same applies to the motion we will table.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u130	Mr President, for the clarity of the debates and in order to reply to Mr Massin, I confirm that yesterday I welcomed his great intellectual honesty in the presentation of the findings. It is all the more notable that not all colleagues have been so honest. However, I told him that we did not agree with the recommendations, particularly the one that was intended to put the term "interference", because we believe that this is rather an interference. We are not going to start the debate again. The two concepts differ legally, and we justified them at length yesterday. Finally, I will repeat what Mr. Van Quickenborne. The question before the commission of inquiry was whether the criminal transaction law had been drafted in favour of Mr. Chodiev. The report's answer is very clear: no! And that is not questionable, even if some here regret it because it does not correspond to the biased idea that they had forged themselves long before the commission was set up.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have worked very hard in the committee of inquiry into Kazachgate. We spent 16 months together and heard 177 witnesses. We must now dare to say that there is a difference between facts and suspicions in a committee of inquiry. We have tried to keep these facts and suspicions out of each other in this committee. We have tried to do good work, and that was not always easy, because of course we were also concerned with limiting the judicial investigation. Those facts and suspicions must be kept out of each other's minds. And we have to admit that there have been attempts. Other colleagues have already said it: however, there was no tuxedo gun. The most important or clear proof of the fact that we have to make a distinction and that we have made it is that different motions from different opposition parties are on the table today. This means that other conclusions are drawn from suspicions. What is ahead is a very good work, based on facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to repeat here a debate which lasted ten hours yesterday afternoon and again in the early morning. During this debate, I had the opportunity to say that for me the diagnosis was perfect. There are numbers, dates, a line of time. We have a mine of observations that we can make use of in the weeks and months to come. I'm more nuanced about the cures. Clearly, our report is not sufficiently high and bold in terms of recommendations. It does not make sufficient proposals for reform of the institutions, in particular the parliamentary institution. I will take only one example, along the lines of motion 4 that I have tabled. I'm joining the PS group on the subject. It is clear that the system of laws with various provisions, of tote laws, prevents effective and coherent parliamentary debate. I do not see why we could not find an element, particularly in the Kazakhgate case, to make a proposal to that effect. Perhaps this proposal will not be taken into account today, but in any case these ideas are present in our debate; they will be on our table tomorrow. We'll have to take them back in one way or another. That will be to the credit of our Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u133	I put Mr Dirk Van der Maelen's motion to the vote. I put to the vote the motion of Mr Dirk Van der Maelen. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u134	Yes [[43]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 131 Total The motion has been rejected. Consequently, the Court may rule on the other motions. The motion was defeated. Accordingly, the House may rule on other motions. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Grovonius voted in favour. I put to the vote the motion by Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr David Clarinval and Mr Conseil Degroote, Mrs Sophie De Wit, Mr Gilles Foret and Mr Werner Janssen, Mrs Goedele Uyttersprot and Mr Vincent Van Peteghem and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne. Je mets aux voix la motion de Mme Sonja Becq, MM. David Clarinval et Conseil Degroote, Mme Sophie De Wit, MM. Gilles Foret et Werner Janssen, Mme Goedele Uyttersprot et MM. Vincent Van Peteghem et Vincent Van Quickenborne. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u135	Yes 75 Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 132 Total The motion has been passed. Consequently, the other motions lapse. The motion was adopted. As a result, the other motions are obsolete. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u136	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2989/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2989/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 130 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2941/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2941/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u138	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2954/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2954/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u139	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2955/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2955/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u140	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2962/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2962/4) Mrs Lanjri voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u141	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2963/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2963/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u142	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2785/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2785/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-26-54-plenair-ip226x.u143	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 3 May 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, May 3, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 3 May 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 3 May 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
