ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 January 2018, I propose that the draft law on the social contributions of self-employed persons, Nos 2880/1 to 3, be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 January 2018, I propose that you place on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill containing various provisions on social security contributions for self-employed workers, Nos. 2880/1 to 3. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. At the request of the government, I propose that you discuss this bill immediately after the oral questions and therefore place it as the first item on the agenda. Since it has received unanimity in committee, I assume that this is not a problem. That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u3	Mr President, I note that eight ministers are absent. Mrs Wouters already protested at the opening meeting of the Chamber because six ministers were absent at the time. At that time, we demonstrated that there were also several plenary meetings in advance for which four, five or six ministers were absent. But this time even the full core is absent. This means that the Prime Minister and all the Deputy Prime Ministers are absent. What I do not understand is that last week we received the agenda with the attendance and absences. Mr Michel, Mr De Croo, Mr Reynders and Mrs Demir were not present. Today there will be four absentees. We got those documents last night. Mr Peeters is also absent now. You're not saying Mr Peeters didn't know last week that he'd be in Davos this week? Mr. Geens is absent. Mr Jambon is absent. And Mr Francken is absent. You are not saying that Mr Geens, Mr Francken and Mr Jambon did not know that they would be in Sofia this week? They knew that, didn't they? I also note that the parliamentary questions that are avoiding the whole core are divided according to a logic that I do not understand at all. Some questions go to Mrs Wilmès, who will answer first. Other questions go to Mr Bacquelaine, who will be the last to answer the questions for which he replaces the Prime Minister. Either you follow one logic, or the other, but not both. I will make a number of constructive proposals now that the whole core is absent. As you know, my group is always very constructive. Perhaps next year, when there is a meeting in Davos, we can fly the people who want to ask questions in the Chamber to Davos. If there are so many ministers there, it will not cost the Belgian taxpayer much more to send a few MPs over there too. There is also a cheaper option. Perhaps we can make Mr De Crem, who has nothing to do and yet has no powers, a member of the core. Then we solve two problems right away. Then Mr De Crem suddenly has powers and someone from the core here will be able to answer the questions on behalf of the Prime Minister. Mr President, there are eight absent ministers. The entire core is absent. I believe that, if you really want to be the President of this Parliament, you should intervene. This isn't normal anymore. Parliamentary control is simply being evaded by the whole core here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u4	Mr President, it is very surprising to note the absence of eight ministers today, three of whom are in Davos. We find it problematic to send three ministers to Davos, including the Minister for Employment. I would remind you that an extraordinary works council from Carrefour Belgium is meeting at the moment. There might be some bad news. Meanwhile, three ministers are in Davos to find multinationals who are liquidating employment at home! I am thinking in particular of InBev, Caterpilllar. There are all clean people in Davos. You cannot explain why at such an important moment, when Carrefour is in the eye of the storm, three federal ministers, including the Minister of Work, have travelled to Davos. I propose that there be a discussion about the fact that there are so few ministers here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u5	Mr Nollet, would you like to speak on the same subject? [[No]] In this case, I reply first to Messrs. Hedebouw et Vuye. Firstly, I understand your position as small groups without representation in the Conference of Presidents. Ministers' absences were not only noted at the Conference of Presidents, but also justified. Per minister is indicated where he or she is staying. There was no mention of that. That's a very important fact that you should know. Secondly, I can follow you for a bit. Part of your criticism, I'll make mine. That report could happen sooner. I think you have a point. On the other hand, you have no point in any other area. Of course, it is possible to ask questions to the government today. Of course, there will be answers. Other ministers will deliver them, but the government is one and indivisible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u6	Mr President, I just wanted to check that Mrs De Block was not in Davos. My colleague Dedry wishes to question him. She asked a question...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u7	That's another problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u8	Emergency medical assistance is an essential subject and the matter is referred to another minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u9	This has nothing to do with Mrs De Block's state of health. There are two competent ministers. In principle, the competent minister is Mr Ducrame. There, we follow the usual line. It is the competent minister who responds, although it is true that Mrs De Block is co-signatory and co-competent for this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u10	If Mrs Dedry asked a topical question today, it is not to repeat the debate that took place yesterday with Mr Ducrame in committee. It is precisely and specifically about the specific dimensions of Mrs De Block's competence. I do not understand why his request is not granted, as long as Mrs De Block is not prevented from coming. Why is it not possible to ask a question specifically focused on Ms De Block's skills? I can't accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u11	I'm not going to hide behind the services, but I asked for their advice and we followed the usual course of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u12	The Rules still allow parliamentarians to question parts of another minister's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u13	The question is first and foremost important, however. But what matters most is the answer. It's the most important thing. It will be given by Minister Ducrame on behalf of the entire government. That is a discussion that we have still had. I suggest that we limit the debate on the procedure to this. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u14	Mrs. De Block is here. You have to follow a system. That's what I did, after I asked the services for advice. The minister will be present, but the answer will still be given by Mr.Ducarme. I would also point out that Mr Maingain's question has been withdrawn. There are four remaining questions for the Prime Minister, and the answers will be provided by the Minister of Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u15	Mr Gilkinet, I know that it is your birthday today and, on behalf of the colleagues, I congratulate you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u16	Mr President, thank you, but there is really no room for joy today. The management of Carrefour has just announced, ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of 2,233 jobs. In 2016, the Carrefour Group in Belgium made a profit of 96 million euros, Madam Minister. The Carrefour group today in Belgium has 11,500 workers. If we follow the logic of the management of the group, it is therefore more than 20% of the workers who will disappear on 800 settlements. Mr President, therefore, I really do not want to rejoice! Madam Budget Minister, I don't know if you're being punished. In any case, you are not in Davos, unlike some of your colleagues. I hope that in Davos, the Prime Minister will discuss with representatives of the business world the societal responsibility of companies and the counterpart to state aid. I also note that the Minister of Employment is not available. I hope that he has been using the last few hours to discuss with the group's management, that he is informed of what is happening there and that he has tried to prevent this job loss announcement. I hope that the management of Carrefour will be able, above all, to move back on this decision, because the distribution sector offers employment to people who are often less qualified, often women, very often on a part-time basis but also under conditions considered difficult for students. Madam Minister, I hope you have obtained useful information from your colleagues. What were the government's contacts with Carrefour management? Are contacts programmed in the very short term to try to change her mind? Beyond the specific case of Carrefour, is the government's intention to take measures to avoid this type of redundancies - they cannot be called otherwise - and to make the increasing number of federal aid granted to enterprises conditional on the maintenance and creation of employment? It is inconceivable, in the head of companies, to make such profits, to receive aid which is legitimate and, at some point, to decide to abolish employment in such large and worrying proportions. The announcement just dropped a few minutes ago: more than 2,200 jobs will be eliminated. It's just unbearable, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u17	Minister, Carrefour has announced an extremely high figure for France. I have just received information: according to the works council, just for Belgium, no less than 1,233 people could be affected by a threat of collective redundancies, which heralds a new earthquake. What is striking, ladies and gentlemen, is that we find ourselves in the same situation as in 2016. And there, everyone in this House, the mouth in the heart at the time of Caterpillar and ING, called for action to be taken. We cannot be so helpless, we cannot wait to know how these companies will undertake these redundancies, what social plans will or will not be concluded. Two years later, the then Minister of Employment announced, inter alia, the obligation to draw up a social plan for all workers. Since then, nothing has happened. The arguments put forward were all excuses: totally inappropriate. Minister, I hope you understand the major concern of all staff (at Evere headquarters or stores) and their families. What is the government's position on this matter? While Paris announced the decision 48 hours ago, what contacts did you make in Belgium with the Carrefour directorates? What are you proposing to really support workers' representatives in developing alternative proposals to dismissal? Will you quickly decide to send a social conciliator to stand with the workers, because the priority of priorities is to find alternatives to these dismissals? Minister and, through you, the whole government, you must take this issue in full hands and work on these alternatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, like many of us, I would have liked to have asked the Prime Minister about this issue, but at the time we are talking, 11,500 workers in the Carrefour Belgique Group have a tight stomach. With their families, they have been living in anguish for several days and wondering what will happen to this transformation plan of Carrefour. An extraordinary works council is holding for the moment and we are trying to follow the news almost live to know what the social impact in terms of jobs will eventually be. I feel like history is repeating itself. Two years ago, in September 2016, Mr.President, the social partners of Caterpillar were welcomed. There were beautiful speeches and a beautiful unanimism to indignant ourselves of this situation. We heard the Prime Minister say he will support the workers and their families. It must be noted that, since then, further restructurings have taken place, further collective redundancies have taken place. We remember ING. The social partners and the management of ING were also received. There were also AXA, Bombardier, RTL and many others. Finally, I want to say that this debate has been held in committee and in this House, but we have not taken the time to learn from the tragedy, the Caterpillar earthquake and, in particular, to ban stock market redundancies and put an end to what the Renault law allows us to do today. We have had this debate, but unfortunately, Madam Minister, your government has not had this will, the courage to reform the Renault law with a view to prohibiting redundancies and ensuring that a labour court can finally, after examining the case, validate or not, the fact of having a collective redundancies procedure. You didn't! Has the Minister, the government, the Minister of Employment and the Prime Minister, had any contact with the management of Carrefour? What does it show? What are you going to do to ban, in the future, redundancies so that we can no longer find ourselves in this kind of situation in the future? Will you have the courage to reform this Renault law to defend the employment of workers in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u19	Madam Minister, a new social shock is taking place today: 1,233 jobs are threatened at Carrefour Belgium, 1,053 in hypermarkets and 180 at the head office. Two hypermarkets should close in Genk and Belle-île in Liège, according to management plans. More than 10 per cent of staff would be covered by this plan. This is a shock, but the Minister of Employment is not here, nor is the Prime Minister. Where are they? In Davos, which is curving multinationals, it would be time to take action against multinationals that allow themselves everything and anything in this country at the social level. Carrefour is not a losing group. As a whole, he realizes profits. In 2016, these total $1 billion and cumulative profits of $8.5 billion. He distributed dividends. Carrefour Belgium also makes profits and most of them have been redistributed to Carrefour France in the form of dividends. Our government is curving in Davos to present tax plans and gifts for distribution, such as corporate tax reform, among other things. Does this prevent multinationals from closing their factories? Everyone who does this here has taken advantage of these benefits and gifts, and they continue to do so. Madam Minister, Belgium must no longer be the country of Europe where it is easier to dismiss. Dismissals should be prohibited when a multinational company makes profits and distributes dividends. That is the policy that must be pursued, instead of multiplying gifts! A representative of your party is both an advisor to the Walloon Minister of Employment and a member of Carrefour's board of directors. This is Sabine Laruelle. I guess you know that. How is it possible to defend, on the one hand, the "jobs, jobs, jobs", as adviser to the minister, and on the other hand, to sit on the board and apply the "C4, C4, C4"? That is the double speech of your party and your government! [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u20	I come to my questions, if I am allowed to speak, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u21	Colleagues, let Mr. Van Hees!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u22	Minister, what is the government going to do about this restructuring? Will he really oppose this decision of the Carrefour Group or will he let it, as usual? Do you find it normal that a multinational company that realizes profits and redistributes dividends can terminate without any form of control? Is it not necessary to make a law to change that? Finally, do you find it normal for Sabine Laruelle to defend the "jobs, jobs, jobs" and at the same time sit on Carrefour's board of directors while performing the "C4, C4, C4" mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank those of you who are able to stay cool and do the part when times look more difficult. I would like to remind you that we should not underestimate the importance of the presence of our ministers and our Prime Minister at international meetings! This gives our country the opportunity to radiate and influence international policies both with large companies and with other leaders. Like you, we learned that an extraordinary business council was convened at Carrefour Belgium this afternoon. We all have a phone and like you, I am now learning that Belgium could be impacted by 1,233 jobs. We have no more information at this stage. We hope that the impact will be limited with regard to Belgium. With regard to collective redundancies, it is the Renault law that will apply in all its aspects and it is the social conciliator of the administration of Minister Peeters who will fully play his role in the negotiations. The social conciliation service will be available to the parties concerned. With regard to the evaluation of the Renault law, I would remind you that, following the Caterpillar case, the government had taken initiatives with the social partners, including the request to evaluate this law. Minister Peeters had made five concrete proposals. The social partners have asked to be able to continue negotiations within the National Labour Council (NCT). As part of the discussions with its President, the Minister has recently insisted on urgent treatment of proposals by the end of next month. Should there be no consensus, the Minister will come back with his original proposals. The current situation is a major challenge that the government takes seriously. Minister Peeters will follow her closely. Today we think of those who are worried about their employment and we remain fully mobilized.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u24	Minister, this is the minimum service again. The government's impotence in the face of this announcement is patent. What have you retained from the ING and Caterpillar files? What have you changed since then? Today, the danger to our social security - it was mentioned yesterday in the press - is caused by the predatory behaviour of the shareholders of multinational companies. In addition, the government's inability to lay down rules, to ask for compensation for those who receive aid to create employment, to demand a commitment from them to maintain activity in our country, especially and even when they generate substantial profits. Why has the government not yet acted in this area? Will you, yes or no, take over the proposals we have put forward to amend the Renault law and to demand a refund of the public aid received by the companies which would register profits and nevertheless lay off? This is the least you can do for the 1,200 families who are now struck by the announcement of Carrefour Belgium's board of directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u25	Minister, I will begin my reply by taking my distance from the comments made by some of my colleagues, particularly those of the PTB representative. Whether it is his ad hominem attack or his proposal to nationalize companies, I am absolutely not. Conversely, it seems to me essential to empower the firms concerned. Minister, the priority is to minimize the impact of the social drama that is clearly being announced to workers in Carrefour. There has been extensive discussion of the siege in Evere, but the information from 1,233 people indicates that he is not the only one concerned, with more than 200 people. Thousands of employees working in many stores are also employed. It's obviously very serious. You tell us that a social conciliator will be available. But you know as well as I do that the minister is able to take the initiative to send one. When I see that it took forty-eight hours for us to receive even the beginning of an information from Paris, I ask you to send an initiative, whatever the demand expressed by the workers, to a social conciliator responsible for being at their side. I also note that nothing has been put in place since ING, since Caterpillar, despite announcements with great communications. You take the excuse of the social partners. This excuse, you use it when it suits you, Madam Minister. Why are you blocking this file? It is not because of the social partners, but because of your government agreement. In this government agreement, you planned to increase the ability of employers to dismiss quickly. Today, of course, it is this point that prevents you from moving forward. It is time to change the Renault law and be with the workers to better protect them from these collective redundancies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u26	Mrs Fonck, your reply has been far too long!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u27	Mr President, the answer leads me to a point: this policy of reducing social contributions, linear and blind, is not working with companies that practice such economic cynicism. The Socialist Group has tabled a proposal for a law to amend the Renault law, with the aim of prohibiting redundancies in stock exchanges. Another proposal concerns the right to alert workers, but in view of the current situation, we would not understand that the examination of this dossier is not given priority. We encourage the government to meet with the company's management and to organize, mentor and accompany a social dialogue within the company. As Chairman of the Commission on the Economy, I would like to see Carrefour do what we have done with Caterpillar and ING, that is, invite Carrefour Belgium's management and the trade unions to have an exchange of views with them and learn from this new crisis. I hope that these lessons will lead to a political will to ban redundancies.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u28	Madam Minister, I note first of all that you did not answer the question about Sabine Laruelle's double cap. But I understand that you did not reply because, as a member of Carrefour Belgique's board of directors, she participated in the decision to dismiss 1,233 people in Belgium. I understand you're not reacting. On the other hand, everyone knows that the Renault law is no more or less than a plaster on a wooden leg, that it is of no use, except to inform the workers that they will be fired. What is needed is to ban dismissals from a profit-making group. Looking at tax and other gifts, Carrefour has paid 12.7% tax in Belgium over the last ten years. And you are coming with a corporate tax reform to raise this rate to 25 per cent by saying that, in this way, everything will be settled. But Carrefour received gifts since a rate of 12.7% was granted to Carrefour. Does this prevent the multinational from firing? No! You are pursuing a policy that I will call blindly ideological, by continuing to give gifts, but when it comes to being firm towards multinationals and preventing them from firing, you are no longer seen!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u29	The answer will be given by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u30	Mr President, Minister, over the last few days I have gone to the trouble of taking a look around the North Station. You can see the result on my Twitter and Facebook account, on which I posted two videos indicating that the North Station has become a kind of second Calais. Hundreds of illegals hang around, sleep in sleeping bags, put their need in the hallways and adjacent plots. It's a real disgrace. I don't have another word for it. I invite everyone, including you, Minister, to take home not the service car with driver tonight, but public transport from the North Station. Then you can observe the circumstances yourself. We all know why this is the case. Contrary to the perception of a strict policy on illegal immigrants, which is being imposed on citizens, this is not happening on the ground. This is the result of a cat-and-mouse game between the government and the organizations, civil committees and related people involved, which was apparently tipped off by God last week, following a police action at the Maximilian Park, which ultimately ended the police action on a sisser. The same thing happened with an action at the North Station. This leads to frustration in the police forces. I quote the ACOD Police: "The officers are bothered by the fact that they are taking actions that do nothing. It seems that the politicians are using us to show the people that they are doing the utmost to deal with the problem of migrants. Agents must not be the hostage of politics." I also quote the VSOA Police: "The road police and the police sometimes have to pick up the same migrants up nine times in a row. Each time they are ordered to leave the territory. We do not know why these people are not effectively expelled." You need to explain to me why all this is possible, Minister? How is it possible that from certain circles, politicians, activists are tipped off so that the Maximilian park can be released and two thousand protesters can join forces there to prevent the police from doing their job and that the same thing happens a few days later in the North Station? How is all that possible? Why today, today, is there no intervention at the North Station where illegal immigrants and so-called transmigrants are being called what's in a name? Finally screw things up and create a threatening atmosphere for anyone who wants to use the North Station?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u31	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, for the present situation of the migrants in and around the North Station, Minister Jambon gave a detailed analysis in the Chamber on 17 January last week, in which a number of important elements can serve as an answer to your comments and questions. As a result of the leaks, an investigation was started. Of course, because of the secret of the investigation, no further details can be given at the moment. On Sunday, a police operation took place in which 17 illegal immigrants were apprehended. The police will continue to organise multidisciplinary actions. I do not think it would be wise to give details on this either, not to be in the hands of the smugglers. In the interest of all those involved in this issue, Minister Jambon continues to stress that the approach of the smugglers involved is crucial. The Minister also remains committed to an integrated approach. Minister Jambon understands the reaction of people on the ground. However, he believes that police actions should be permanently organised to combat illegal camping behaviour in the capital, in highway parkings, and around the ports of Zeebrugge and Antwerp. Finally, but crucially important, people arriving here have the choice: either they apply for asylum from the DVZ or they do not. In the first case, a legal procedure is followed. In the second case, they are going into illegality, and we cannot tolerate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u32	Mr. Secretary, as Minister Jambon's mouthpiece, you are letting the muscle roll again. You can't tolerate it, but you'll tolerate it on the premises. Both the VSOA and the ACOD Police are right to charge that. And they're right. The reality on television is not the reality on the ground. Again, I invite you to go to the North Station later and you will see the reality on the ground. Places like the motorway car park in Groot-Bijgaarden, Zeebrugge and the North Station are becoming a kind of Calais due to the laxity of our government which does not intervene or does not intervene sufficiently. The citizens' committees and the League of Human Rights, which ultimately also exploit the suffering of the illegals who have to survive there in difficult circumstances, for their political agenda, an agenda of open borders, are, if possible, even more responsible for all of this than the government. They manipulate the situation, abuse it, ensure that irresponsible actions are carried out and must therefore be tackled as an illegal and criminal organisation. I hope that the government will have the courage and responsibility to tackle these organisations and, if necessary, to tackle them hard if they go into illegality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u33	The next item is questions for the Minister for Social Affairs and Health. You have a question about the organization of work, Mr Calvo?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u34	It is indeed about the regulation of the work. Did you have the opportunity to discuss with the Minister what Mr Nollet has just mentioned, namely whether she would still answer Mr Dedry's question, since she has the authority to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u35	Of course not. I have told you that the answer will be given by Minister Ducarme, because we follow the system we always follow. I was sitting here, the minister was there. Of course, I did not consult with the Minister on this, but that does not really matter. We will follow the system, as we have always done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u36	The Rules of Procedure provide that the Member of Parliament shall in principle elect, Mr President. Mrs De Block has the authority to do so. I honestly don't understand why she wouldn't answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u37	Because the Minister is not competent. It is Mr Ducarme, who is competent. There's a shared jurisdiction with Minister De Block. That is an old discussion, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u38	It's a whole new discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u39	It's a very old discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u40	It is a discussion that should also be able to be held with Mrs De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u41	I suggest we leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u42	Madam Minister, we have heard in the press that you are putting an end to the halt to the recognition of district health centres. Let us be clear, we are very happy about that. You have held that recognition stop for over a year, while you have had an audit of EUR 200 000 for an expensive consultancy firm, which has produced results that we have all known: care by district health centres is not more expensive for health insurance and is cheaper for the patient, quality is high and the centres are very low-threshold for the most vulnerable people. Madam Minister, I think it is time to give the district health centres to which they are entitled. There is now a need to invest in the expansion of district health centres, in the expansion of this low-threshold primary care. Do you confirm that you're stopping the witch hunt against the district health centers? It almost seemed that way at some point. What will you do to compensate for the lost year? Will you also invest in this low-threshold care? How much additional budget will you provide to make the district health centres a catch-up?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u43	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a good announcement that the moratorium on medical homes will end. According to you, both classical general medicine and standard general medicine have their merits and can be perfectly complementary. Choosing between the two systems is therefore not necessary at all. Finally, Madam Minister, you have just reassured the 400,000 Belgians who are going to a medical home today to seek medical treatment. Indeed, 3% of our citizens opt for this flat-rate system to be able to receive the first-line care they need. However, in 2016, you decided not only to freeze the recognition and have the audit carried out, but also to achieve 7 million savings in the sector. Finally, you're back to reason! I am particularly pleased with this and with me, I suppose, these 400,000 Belgians. Do you confirm the immediate lifting of this moratorium? That being said, I think it might be time to put a little layer of it back on, too, because you have probably, like me, become aware of the way in which the ABSyM envisages the conclusions of this report. Of course, we are challenging all of the ABSyM's proposals. On the other hand, there is a slight concern beyond the very close end of this moratorium and I look forward to your confirmation in this Parliament. This is the establishment of a working group to make recommendations for the sector. I do not dispute the fact that possible improvements can be made to the general functioning of medical homes. However, can you confirm to us that this is not a manoeuvre in managing this file? Can you confirm that the goal is to improve patient care and not to look for positions on which to save at their expense? Will close consultation with medical homes take place within this framework as announced by this government? When are the recommendations expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u44	Mr President, Minister, you have had a great deal of experience over the past year. The health centers would run counter to your liberal ideology. You would also have denied access for more than a year to those who needed low-threshold care in our country. The word "witch hunt" has just been used. Madam Minister, let me be clear: CD&V is in favour of district health centres, but we are equally in favour of classical general medicine in group practices and in individual practices. After all, we are convinced that they too offer quality, low-threshold care to the patient. That is what ultimately matters, namely the provision of quality care to the patient. We can move forward. The study is on the table. There's good news. However, Madam Minister, I also read some of the points in the study, especially when it comes to funding. The study indicates that the funding is not always transparent, especially with regard to the use of part of the funds. The redirection policy to the second line is not always well recorded either. There are also legitimate questions about the write-out policy. The number of patients per doctor, especially in combination with the training of general practitioners, known as HAIOs, demands our attention. Madam Minister, I would therefore like to ask you quite clearly. What will you do with the recommendations? The working group within the Insurance Committee is here. The moratorium has been abolished. Does this mean that the new district health centres are starting up according to current regulations, or do you intend to adapt the regulations soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u45	One further questioner has been added with a question from the committee, namely Mr Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u46	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, we have already had the opportunity to debate the issue of medical homes. The study of mutuals shows that the latter, if one takes the first and second lines, are cheaper for social security, offer better services – I am thinking of limiting the prescriptions of antibiotics, vaccinations, etc. – and obviously much more accessible to patients. But you felt that this study was worthless and you asked KPMG to do an audit to legitimize your attacks on medical homes because, in my opinion, your goal is to break a system that shadows money medicine. In doing so, you're the spokesperson for a lobby. I am thinking in particular of ABSyM's shameful statements about medical homes. The problem is, you didn't find anything in KPMG's audit. So what are you doing? You're looking for the little beast, you're trying to pin a few anodized elements and you're talking about overfunding medical homes in relation to their costs. But it is important to know that medical homes also take care of other aspects, which doctors do not do in practice; I am thinking of consultations with psychologists, physiotherapists, dietitians, etc. You are also talking about non-transparent funding by referring to several sources of funding while things are very clear: there is INAMI, there is the financing of the Region. Despite the mutual report, despite the fact that KPMG's audit does not say anything, you continue and launch a working group to continue your war against medical homes. When are you going to stop? Minister, can you guarantee future funding for medical homes in line with their growth, that is, neither to block them completely, nor to limit their natural growth? Rather than always hounding you on medical homes, if you really want to have care audits done, don't you think you should make sure that the real efficiency of actual medicine is assured? Indeed, at the level of medical homes, this efficiency has been sufficiently proven.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u47	Thank you for the questions. First of all, with regard to the audit of the medical homes, it was intended to properly complete the flat-rate financing system and to correctly position it in the compulsory health insurance system. The audit would identify the organisation, operation and cost structure of the medical homes. Indeed, very much of the information that is now available in the audit report has never been available in this way before. So the audit was definitely necessary. Patients in neighbourhood health centres are also entitled to the best quality of care. For them, we did that audit. It has become an analysis of the characteristics, patient records, the organisation of the service, the operating costs and sources of funding of the 160 medical homes out of a total of 175, which have completed the survey. Interviews were also conducted at 40 medical homes. The medical homes of Medicine for the People have refused to cooperate. Mrs Jiroflée, what I hear from you and what I read in the press does not show any knowledge. You didn't read that audit, because what you're saying isn't there. Maybe we got another one, that's possible. Some have even read conclusions that aren't even in them. The audit is an objective analysis without recommendations, advice or appreciation. That wasn't the audit mission either. However, as Mrs Muylle pointed out, the audit revealed a number of problems and concerns. The first problem is over-financing. For example, in 2016 the revenue from the flat-rate financing amounted to 383 euros per subscriber per year, while the cost of the care we finance from the compulsory insurance was only 226 euros. So the medical homes have been making a profit for many years because of the overfinancing. The question is then what do they do with that surplus? The audit explicitly lists some examples, namely the granting of interest-free loans and.... curiously, I could not leave this... supporting a seal collection centre. This does not seem to me to be a direct destination for the budget of medical care. This will therefore have to be clarified and such practices discussed. There is also a lack of transparency. This is problematic given the lack of registration and the large number of sources of funding. The auditor has a list of more than 100 different sources of funding. The moratorium has indeed been lifted, as agreed. Mr Massin, you do not have to demand this, because that moratorium has already been lifted when the audit was carried out, as has always been said. The proof is also that last year eight medical homes were admitted for flat-rate payment and three others were admitted but were only allowed to start in 2018. The audit has been carried out and we see the following. A low number of patients are treated per doctor. Nevertheless, it is more premature to declare a patient stop, which means that another medical home must be set up. There is abundant and disproportionate recourse to general practitioners in training. If we treat so few patients and have three or four general practitioners in supplementary training, is the training of these general practitioners sufficient and are they often confronted with pathologies enough? The participation in the watchkeeping service, which is essential for patients, is a prerequisite for the accreditation of each doctor. Many doctors associated with medical homes sign up for watch duty, but never participate in it. In the meantime, as a doctor who applies the subscriber financing, they are automatically accredited, which is not normal. Registration is also a major problem. There is no systematic registration of patient contacts. Contacts that are not usually assumed for payment in compulsory insurance, such as telephone contacts, are included. Registration of patient referrals to second-line health care is not available. That's what they say they'd better register. I have therefore listed the improvement expectations and asked an ad hoc working group to submit proposals to me by the end of April at the latest. Then it will be clear that there is a lot of work to be done to improve quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u48	Madam Minister, it is, of course, easy to blow up the negative aspects. You blame me for not reading it. Well, I blame you for reading very selectively. The large figures confirm what I just said. The health gap in our society is growing. In a civilized society, that must be our greatest concern. By giving the district health centres where there are abuses, it is logical that they are being eradicated, but also that they can be blown up to give them the opportunity to develop much faster than they are now and to have their working methods applied much wider, for example by group practices of general practitioners, you could do something about that growing health gap in an affordable way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u49	Mr. Chair, Minister, accessibility to health care is a top priority. It certainly is for my group. I hope it is also true for the government, especially when we know that one in five patients, as things stand at present, are still delaying their visit to the general practitioner for lack of financial means. Medical homes therefore have a fundamental role to play in this regard. This is all the more significant since half of the patients who go to a medical home benefit from increased intervention. As a result of these medical homes, many poor, underprivileged people often receive more than expected care. I hear the moratorium is lifted. If malfunctions are found, the task force may be used to make recommendations, but I hope it does so in partnership with medical homes. They are also ready to take initiatives in this direction. Do not do this without their collaboration. It's fundamental! It is not because a group refuses to intervene in an audit that the others must be swept away. This grouping never represents only about 6% of patients who are identified at the INAMI level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u50	Colleagues, please let us stop the polemic that one would be better than the other. Let us support both systems and rely on providing quality, low-threshold care to every patient in our country. It is said here that we are not strict on classical general medical practice, but they are. Let's look at the same standards. What's on the table now has a lot of good things. The study of the mutualities in December has also shown this, but there are also concerns. Let's take a look at that, Madam Secretary. Let us just make better legislation for that, so that every patient is entitled to good primary care.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u51	Minister, I asked you only two questions and none received an answer. I wanted to know if you would guarantee the financing of medical homes in line with their natural growth. No answer! I also wanted to know if we should not instead carry out audits on de facto medicine. No answer! Finally, the question is: why do you stand against medical homes? I don't want to oppose them to deed medicine, but I'd like to understand why you're attacking the system that works best. Instead of fighting against medical homes, you should instead fight against the fact that in Belgium, 900,000 people post health care for financial reasons each year. This is the real scandal of medicine in Belgium. You don't attack that. On the other hand, one of the strengths of medical homes is their financial accessibility, the fact that patients are treated free of charge. It's essential. And that, you ignore it, as the fact that it costs social security less, that medicine is more preventive, as the study of mutuals shows. We do not practice illegal pricing, as is done in de facto medicine; no race for profit, with consultations of five minutes as happens sometimes in de facto medicine – without wanting to cast reproach on everyone –, no doctors who make up to 4 to 500 000 euros a year. Madam Minister, stop attacking medical homes! Instead, tackle the real problem of accessibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u52	This question was addressed to the Prime Minister, but will be addressed by the Minister of Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I had addressed this question to the Prime Minister. It exceeds your skills on some points. Nevertheless, I hope that your answer will cover the whole question. It is almost two years since our country experienced the worst terrorist attacks in its history, which killed 32 people and wounded hundreds of others. It has been a year since these victims came before our committee of inquiry to testify of their despair. We have submitted our interim recommendations on victim assistance seven months ago, and yet, even today, these victims claim to be abandoned and hopeless. They again cry out an alarm and a new call for help. It is true that we promised them to accompany them and take them by the hand – an expression they had used. This is not the case today. We also promised them that they would be treated equally, whether Walloon, Brussels or Flemish, Belgian or non-Belgian residents, foreign nationals or Belgian nationals, and that is not the case. We also promised them prompt and proactive compensation. Today, however, they are in Kafkaian procedures, caught in a ping-pong game between insurance and the state. We promised them the full reimbursement of health care, and that is not the case. I have in my possession, here, a letter that the Minister of Defence (which I thank for attending the presentation of this question) sent to one of the victims: "431 victims have received national solidarity status, 51 have received a positive decision on a compensation pension", but no one has yet received it. This letter was also sent to INAMI and was intended to allow mutuals to reimburse the whole of the care. Yet, in another letter that I have received and that I have here in my possession, it is stated that mutuals are not aware of the status of national solidarity that has been granted to these victims. There are also these associations which are, of course, approved but which "are not financially supported and which", they tell us, "are not involved in the commemorations of the second anniversary of these attacks." That is the situation, Madam Minister, and I am waiting for you, on behalf of the government, to respond to the plight of the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u54	Mr Dallemagne, thank you for your question, which was initially addressed to the Prime Minister and to Messrs. Geens and Vandeput, since this is a shared competence. First of all, the cry of distress, which we have heard, is that of the representatives of V-Europe. The political world has always regarded it as a committed association representing many victims. Last July, the law establishing a status of solidarity was passed. Many amendments made it possible to include the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. They are the result of constructive work by the opposition and the majority – including your group, Mr Dallemagne. A task force has been set up at the request of the Prime Minister to implement the other recommendations. The Minister of Justice manages its operations in order to put in place a more effective system, in which victims occupy a central position. Meetings have been held very regularly, both with the federal government and with the Regions. They have led to the establishment of many working groups, which have transposed many of the recommendations into concrete texts. The government has taken measures to support victims as much as possible. For example, the one-stop shop, the planned simplification, the medical expertise, the improvement of the protection of Belgian victims abroad and the reduction of formal conditions! Several texts will soon be concluded before political discussions are held with a view to bringing them into force as soon as possible. Here they are. First, the draft law on the functioning of the Commission to Assist Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence will provide for a specific legal investigation for victims of terrorism. This procedure is characterised by a minimum of formal conditions. It will be possible for the victims and the commission to subrogate. Subsequently, a draft law on insurance and implementing orders for the National Status Act are being submitted. It goes without saying that the financial aspect and the financial status are not the only elements to play a role. The task force is also intensively looking at the following elements: a clear scenario defining the intervention of the various aid services, a coordinator appointed at Community level, etc. I can give you the list, Mr. Dallemagne. I would also point out that victim support associations, including V-Europe, are always invited to attend Task Force meetings and inter-federal meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u55	Minister, I am not saying that the government is doing nothing, I think it is working. But, obviously, he does not work at the level of assistance and with the speed that the distress of the victims and the associations would deserve. We have been waiting for months – as Mr Geens promised for the month of September – this bill of subrogation that allows the state to act and turn against the insurances afterwards. Yet this bill is still not there. We were promised a one-stop shop that is still not there either, minister. It is really time to speed up this work, to ensure that there are finally results that match the expectations of the victims of the attacks. The state has not been able to protect them. It is a failure that we carry collectively. We must, you must live up to the assistance they deserve today. I ask you to take this to heart and speed up the government's work on all the points you mentioned, because the results are not there yet!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u56	The answer will be given by the Minister for Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, do you know the goblin television programme Little Britain? There's a sketch in there, where it's always said, "The computer says no." In the meantime, it has also affected the justice of Brussels. That has simply become a reality there. Colleagues, the headlines do not lie: "Drug gang goes free." The reason is that the computers are too old to play a DVD. The drug gang traded seven tons of drugs. There is a discussion about the display of the telephone tap. They want to rehearse that tap at the hearing. However, this cannot be done because the DVD cannot be played. The case was postponed, but even after that, the computer doesn't work. It's not working. They can't get the plane to work. Madam Secretary, what is the result? Any procedural errors shall be prevented. The drug gang's off the hook. So today the Justice Department goes again, for the umpteenth time, with the buttocks exposed. An investigation is going into the trash can. Madam Minister, we absolutely cannot accept this in 2018. I don't understand that, and the public on the street doesn't understand that either. In addition, I have to read in the newspaper article that the FPS Justice has indeed delivered a computer that could play the DVD. So somewhere in the Brussels Palace of Justice there is a PC that might have said 'yes' instead of 'no'. Madam Secretary, I do know that the separation of powers and the fact of a specific dossier are taking place here. I would nevertheless very much like you to clarify a little about what happened there. Perhaps we can correct the problem of procedural errors at legislative level. I'd like to take a look at that with you. More importantly, however, how in the name of God can it be that in such cases, in particular a case of seven tonnes of drugs, no PC can be found in Brussels that can play the DVD? Then where was that plane? Why wasn't the case postponed again? Why did the judges almost take the shoulders and say, "The computer says no"? They should have called me. I would have lent my PC with great pleasure, if only to play the DVD. More importantly, and even most importantly for the future, President Hennart stated that something like this could happen, that things were still coming and that no DVDs could be played in Brussels. He says almost laconically and obstinately: "The computer says no." Madam Secretary, we're not gonna let that happen, are we? What are we going to do about this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u58	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, yesterday the Minister for Justice took note of the acquittal in the case in question. That acquittal is based on the alleged illegibility of the DVD with the recordings of the integral telephone conversations that were bugged. In the case in question, the Registry attested to the unreadable nature of the source files and the court ruled that:"Le tribunal, en examinant ces pièces, constate que si Elles ne sont pas en tant que telles illesibles, l'arborescence de contenu s'affichant correctment sur l'ordinator n'est pas en mesure d'identifier le programme utilize pour permettre l'audition de certains fichiers, soit concernant les fichiers lisibles via le programme VLC. Seule la voix d'un interlocuteur est audible, et non les réponses du deuxième." The acquittal was then decided on for breach of the rights of the defence. It goes without saying that the Minister of Justice does not question the judge's judgment in any way, but nevertheless wishes to respond to the relevant press releases. Contrary to the information you were able to hear from the press this morning, in which the President of the French-speaking Court of First Instance, Mr Hennart, said that the Registry was not equipped enough to listen to the DVDs of wired telephone conversations, it is clear from the judge's finding that the DVD was indeed readable and listenable, but that only one audio channel was played with the programme used. The DVD was there and was readable, but a wrong program was used. On the basis of the information available to the Minister of Justice, it is therefore not due to the equipment but to the person who identified the programme to be used. In many other files ordering eavesdropping, the recorded conversations were listened to without difficulty, at the same Registry, through the available listening programme. This was also reported and confirmed by the federal police national interception facility. The DVD was technically readable, but of course the correct program must also be used. So a wrong viewer was used. The prosecution is now investigating whether there is an opportunity to appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u59	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, although your answer has only made it worse. I find it almost unimaginable. The fact that one goes free because of a procedural error is bad in itself, but that it is due to a wrong use makes it very bad. That profession is, of course, good news. Hopefully then competent people will judge differently, but it still makes us think, Madam Secretary. I hope that we will have the necessary infrastructure when dealing with a case and looking for the right audio channel. This is a reform government, Madam Secretary. Above all, we must remember that. We're doing a lot. We are changing and adapting legislation, including in the area of criminal law, but if the equipment, the people and the means are not following, then none of that makes sense. Let us focus on two main areas: addressing regulatory issues while ensuring that resources and people are available. We have to deal with these resources in the right way. This also means finding the right audio channel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u60	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are still certainties in life. The ABVV is going to strike again. Minister, there are still certainties in life: another strike by the FGTB! Colleagues, the ABVV once again opposes this government's pension reforms, while we all know that there is a need to reform in order to keep pensions affordable. We live longer and yet the average retirement age remains at 60 years. Minister, there are also people in our society who carry out heavy tasks. I am thinking, among other things, of construction workers or those who have to work at night. It's important to let them retire a little early. That is the focus of the debate on the heavy professions. For the sake of clarity, I am talking about heavy tasks and not about heavy professions. Heavy tasks because teaching at a university is not comparable to 40 years in kindergarten. Heavy tasks because a roofer can't be compared to someone who does the administration in a construction company. That is what we want to emphasise. The government has put forward a plan to determine, on the basis of three criteria, what is or is not a difficult task. First of all, is it hard work? Secondly, does it involve a security risk? Thirdly, what about work organisation, for example night work? We read today, Minister, that stress as a separate criterion was not held back by the government. It may be an additional element, but not a separate criterion. I believe this is correct. If we let everyone with stress retire earlier, half of Belgium can also retire you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues, the ABVV would better sit at the table instead of standing on the sidelines. It would be better to defend the fate of construction workers, those who have to work at night and attract roof workers, so that they can be helped, rather than defending the privileges of people, Mr Defence Minister, who can still retire in 46 years. We can do that in our country! That's unbelievable! The direction the minister is following is the right one. I hope, Minister, that you can give us an update on this dossier. I also hope, along with many colleagues, that you will not be blackmailed by the ABVV.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u61	Mr Minister, at the beginning of the week, the socialist union urged the government to withdraw any new pension reform proposals and, if it does not comply, threaten to launch new strikes. There is, of course, a question of the closely linked cases of point pension and penitibility. I am stunned to hear such words! Let's go back to the timeline of this case. It is important to remember that the point pension remains a recommendation of the Pension Reform Commission 2020-2040. This point is addressed in the government agreement, which states that: "The government will develop in close consultation with the social partners and the National Pension Committee a legal basis which will enter into force by 2030 at the latest for the introduction of a point system for calculating the pension and which will be the correct reflection of the rights constituted." The National Pension Committee has therefore started to work on the file. On 12 December 2016, the same Committee approved the report drawn up by the "penitibility" commission, which defined the four objective criteria for the recognition of penitibility. On 28 November 2016, the government fixed the amount of the budget envelope to take account of the penitibility in pension entitlements: 40 million for 2019 and 70 million for 2020. On 4 May 2015, Echo FGTB said: "The FGTB deplores that the government considers the issue of penitibility only as a correction factor at the end of the journey. The FGTB has therefore decided to approach the issue in an offensive manner. The FGTB will negotiate by proposing criteria of penitibility." On Monday, January 18, 2016, in a FGTB committee, I quote: "The FGTB has been demanding this for months. Finally, on 18 January, the National Pension Commission initiated its work on labour penitibility. For the FGTB, it is becoming urgent to guarantee the early departures of thousands of hard-working workers or those with a long career." Minister, I don't understand much more! Could you please remind us here of the objectives of the reforms that you are proposing and provide us with an update on the status of the dossiers? How do you respond to these FGTB threats?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u62	Mr President, Minister, Mr Van Quickenborne, the file on the heavy professions is a very important one, for the following two reasons. Firstly, when the government decided to make everyone work for up to 67 years, the Minister said that this would not apply to everyone. For those who work hard, that would not be the case. That is why many workers and servants in our country are waiting for the Minister's decision on the heavy professions. Secondly, we in Belgium are not equal before death. Liberals always talk about life expectancy in general terms, but in our country, the difference in life expectancy in good health between high and low graduates is 15 years, and seven years as far as life expectancy is concerned. Such a difference matters, because someone who has a heavy occupation and retires for 67 years dies after two or three years. So if we want to ensure that people can enjoy an equal number of years of life after their job, then we cannot raise the retirement age for everyone to 67 years. This is where the question of difficult jobs arises. This is a very important question that is being asked today. I am surprised to hear that the Minister has reached an agreement with the public service organizations on four criteria. Then one of them is removed: the criterion of stress. The question before us is: is there a link between this life expectancy and the stress of certain jobs? The question that needs to be asked here is whether there is a link between stress caused by certain jobs and premature death. Well, this link is clearly and scientifically proven. Stress is the new pressure of the 21st century. It's not just about flexibility, it's about stress. Stress makes you die. Stress is a cause of death. Many scientists agree. Mr Minister, how can you decide today to remove that parameter? My question concerns teachers in Flanders and French-speaking Belgium. Will the profession of teacher be recognised as a heavy occupation? That's what this is about. Will the teaching profession be recognized as painful or not? In the texts of the intercabinet, which we have here, on four occasions, you or your collaborators mention the fact that any form of pre-pension will be prohibited before 60 years in 2019, including for painful professions. I ask you to confirm here, Minister, that, for all workers, in 2019, any form of pre-pension before 60 years, despite the tenibility of certain occupations, will be prohibited. I am very curious to hear your answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u63	Minister, some colleagues simply want to attack and criticize workers' representatives who are concerned about the effects of your reforms. Personally, I'll touch on the bottom. When you arrived, you decided to require all citizens to work longer, in disregard of consultation. In our discussions, you told us that these firm measures will soon be compensated by taking account of penitibility. You have created enormous and legitimate expectations among our fellow citizens. Indeed, many of them work under difficult conditions. I am thinking in particular of nurses, teachers, those who work in the building trades or in chain work, railway workers, military personnel, police officers and firefighters, and I could mention more. How will these workers be able to work up to 67 years? You know very well that the healthy life expectancy is 64 years in our country. Minister, in December, we learned that you were proposing a text that dealt only with public service. It could not be adopted in the Council of Ministers, given the criticisms of your majority partners. Like others, I fear that the mountain will give birth to a mouse. My questions are as follows. According to what timetable will you present your reform in Parliament, for both the public and private sectors? What are the criticisms of your partners and how will you respond to them? Will you simply do so by removing one of the four criteria, the only one that has been negotiated with the social partners? What is the status of the consultation with the federated entities? Finally, what system are we headed for? How will you take health risks into account? Indeed, it is the heart of the problem. How are you going to transpose the project for the private sector, when it is known that the FEB rejects the concept of criteria? Can you assure us that no hard-working worker, who had the same preferences, will have his pension reduced if he is unable to extend his career?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u64	I must admit that the strike threat from the ABVV raises questions. The ABBV asks me to withdraw the preliminary draft law on the heavy-duty professions, which is currently being examined by the government. Otherwise, the union threatens to block the country with a general strike. How should such behaviour be explained by a representative workers' organisation, whereas the purpose of the preliminary draft law is precisely to recognise the gravity of certain professions and tasks and to grant additional pension rights to workers through this recognition? The text allows, through recognition of the gravity of the professions, workers either to retire earlier or to receive a higher amount of pension if they decide to continue their professional activity. Since the beginning of the legislature, the FGTB has been calling for this reform, which aims to reduce the impact of raising the retirement age for workers whose tasks would be considered difficult. While the draft is about to be approved at first reading by the Council of Ministers, the socialist trade union is poised and is now opposed to reform. How to explain it, except for strictly political reasons. It should also be stressed that the draft law still needs to be submitted to social consultation. The texts are therefore not final. I therefore call on the FGTB to discuss the texts where social consultation is to take place, i.e. the A Committee or the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service and not on the street or by blocking the country's economic activity. As regards point pensions – this is a recommendation of the Vandenbroucke report, as Mrs Thoron pointed out – the discussions have just concluded between the social partners on the National Pension Committee. We will now analyse the comments made by the social partners before deciding on the guidelines to be given to this reform. For the time being, therefore, there is not yet a draft bill that could be withdrawn. In response to Mr.Daerden's question as to how the criteria for hardship will be defined, I can tell him that the draft bill refers to the four criteria that were defined by the National Pension Committee in its report of September 12, 2016, namely, physical constraints, work organisation, safety risks, and the mental or emotional nature of penitentiaries. These four criteria will make it possible, in the context of social consultation, to draw up a list of difficult tasks. Therefore, I cannot indicate at this stage what functions will benefit from recognition of penitibility. And contrary to what Mr Hedebouw seems to suggest, I do not consider that teachers should a priori be excluded from such recognition. As I have already mentioned in the Committee on Social Affairs, the preliminary draft law is also based on a summary note drawn up by the secretariat of the National Pensions Committee, which aims to reconcile the views expressed in the Public Sector Committee. The draft law implements a number of principles following this: to ensure flexibility for the worker who receives recognition of penitibility by giving him the free choice between early departure or an increase in the amount of his pension; to ensure compliance with the legal conditions for early departure – Mr Hedebouw, you confuse pre-pension with early pension, which surprises me on your part. The minimum age of 60 must, for example, be respected. It is clear that the reform on penitibility is not going to erase the previous reforms voted in this Parliament and carried out by the government. In addition, provision must be made for a minimum duration of penitibility and a gradation in the recognition of penitibility. Mr Hedebouw and Mr Van Quickenborne had specific questions about the stress factor. The preliminary draft law does not recognise the gravity of an appeal on the basis of that criterion; this can only be done in conjunction with another criterion. In response to Mr. Daerden's question about public service contractors, I can tell him that the question is obviously being considered. With regard to the savings that will result from the implementation of the draft law on penitibility, I can confirm what I have always said, the granting of more favourable pension arrangements linked to recognition of penitibility does not create an economy but a cost, Mr Hedebouw and Mr Daerden. I can tell you that there are closed budgets, a closed envelope, of course. We need a closed envelope! The envelope exists and you know it. On the other hand, in parallel, we are going to remove the preferential tantèmes from a number of professions. That's right! What is generated in economics by the abolition of the tantèmes is recycled in the recognition of penitibility and allows to move from an old archaic system of the nineteenth century to a modern system which is based on objective, quantifiable, objectivable criteria and which adhere to the reality of today's labour market. That is what we are going to do. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to advise Mr Hedebouw – and I am counting on him – to convince his friends in the FGTB to support this reform, which will allow us to take better account of the reality of the functions performed and to reward those who have worked hard and heavy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your fighting skills. You have clearly shown here that you will not be blackmailed by that union. By the way, I respect the other trade unions who do stay at the table and negotiate. The liberal and Christian unions do. There is nothing as easy in the pension dossier as making unaffordable promises. The ABVV has done so, and I see that the colleagues from the sp.a are doing so now. The sp.a promises 1 500 euro pension to work for 42 years. That is, more pension for less work. I calculated the invoice: 10 billion euros cost that promise. How will you pay for that? How will you pay for that, colleagues? What needs to be done is what this government does: step by step longer work, step by step increase the pension amount, and, of course, take into account people with a heavy task. That is the necessary and just reform that this government is doing under this minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answer. Everyone has to take responsibility. First of all, Minister, as a representative of this government, you must continue these reforms by always involving the social partners. You've committed yourself to it right from the start and you've always done it. Secondly, the social partners, including the trade unions, must be able to get around the table, where, as you said, negotiations must take place, rather than on the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u67	Minister, you're talking about a cost, but your own intercabinet debaters are making it clear that it's going to save $2.5 billion. The question is budget. The debate is actually about knowing how to save on the backs of pensioners! It's written black and white! You are ideologically limited to this budget and you want to make it pay by pensioners. Secondly, Minister, you are talking about four criteria. You're playing with the truth there a little bit. The point is that your fourth criterion, the emotional burden, will no longer apply as a single criterion, it will be linked to the other three. That's a big difference. You shouldn't lie here. This means that certain sectors with only that last criterion of emotional taxation will not be recognised. Mr Spooren agrees and nods. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that, for example, teachers who can only rely on that fourth criterion fall out. The Minister wouldn't dare say that. But that's what's on the table right now. And it's very serious. After all, the sick days of the Flemish teachers have been increased by 2.5 days a year by the pressure. Minister, you must tell the truth to the workers and servants in this country. That is why we are going to fight against these measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u68	Mr Minister, it is not enough to meet with delegations; we must still listen to them and take their remarks into account. Reform that takes into account the social reality of workers and their health is necessary. It is necessary to apply the criteria objectively and not the objective criteria applied by royal decree which you will decide alone, without negotiation. All this is based on closed envelopes and a jackpot that you will derive from the removal of the preferential tantèmes. Your project will, once again, create discrimination between workers and it will call into question the periods assimilated to your notion of "effective benefit". As you know, your reform totally denies a comprehensive approach. If you don't get out of the closed envelope, your reform will be a decoy and you'll have grumbled thousands of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u69	The answer will be given by the Minister for Pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u70	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much for replying in place of the Prime Minister. Seventy-three British MEPs leave the European Parliament. It would be logical for those 73 seats to just disappear. However, this logic does not take into account the euro films Verhofstadt and co have in mind. Indeed, 27 of these 73 seats are redistributed among the remaining EU Member States. I would also like to point out that this costs EUR 345 600 per month. That's not all, because there are 46 seats left. Are they getting shut down? No, of those 46, 30 are reserved for a European constituency. Cost: 384 000 euros per month. I would just like to point out that these euro films will cost EUR 9 million a year. I will only take into account the cost of Members of Parliament, not yet the cost of their staff. Belgium is, apart from one, the largest payer to the European Union. Luxembourg is leading us in that direction. A Fleming and a Waal pay EUR 533 per year to the EU, while a Dutchman only pays EUR 288 per year to the EU. For a Romanian it is 80 euros and for a Bulgarian only 66 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, as the second largest payer to the EU, I believe that we have the right to put a stop to those euro films. After all, the contribution will not remain the same, but will increase, as the costs will have to be divided among fewer people, since the British are leaving. However, we see that the French President Emmanuel Macron is in favour of a European constituency. We know our Prime Minister: he likes to look south and likes to profile himself as the Belgian Macron. Our Prime Minister is also in favour of a European constituency. Our foreign minister, Mr Reynders, also sees such a European career as such. I wonder if we are perhaps implementing a political version of workable work. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to know the Belgian Government's position on these euro films.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u71	Mr President, Mrs Wouters, I have the Foreign Minister's answer. On 23 January, the European Parliament adopted a proposal in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It proposes to redistribute 27 out of 73 British seats that will be released after the Brexit in favour of countries currently underrepresented. The other 46 seats will be placed in a reserve which will serve the future Member States as well as in a transnational list. Belgium would retain its 21 seats. This proposal has yet to be approved by the plenary of the European Parliament and will then be submitted to the European Council, which will have to decide unanimously. The Belgian position will therefore be determined in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u72	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer, which seems to be an answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and not from the Prime Minister, to whom I had addressed my question. No problem, because the government is one and indivisible. You haven't told me anything new. So we do not know what the position of this government will be. A case is clear to us. We do not want a money-consuming mega-Europe that will lead to the demise of nation-states. What do we want? We want a Europe that takes account of the regions of Flanders and Wallonia and we want an EU without a democratic deficit. Looking at the EU now, it still has a lot to prove, because at the moment it has already failed a lot. Look at Catalonia, look at the flow of refugees. Apparently, that European bureaucratic story doesn't work. The EU also bears a crushing responsibility when we look at Calais, but also at our Maximilian park. Quite clearly, 73 British leave after the Brexit, so that means exit 73 mandates.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u73	Mr President, Minister, two or three aircraft are still in the running for the replacement of the F-16. Apparently, the government doesn't agree on that yet. An American announcement at the end of last week shows that the F-16 would cost our country half more than the budget provided for by our government. Colleagues, the F-35 is already costing two billion more than estimated. In addition, operating costs estimated at EUR 10 billion are added. For sp.a such a billion-dollar buy-in is unacceptable, while the government cuts five billion in social security and pensions. I cannot understand why this government is continuing with this dossier and certainly not with the F-35, about which even Americans are asking questions. This week, they announced that with 38 000 euros per hour, this device would be too expensive to use only in the fight against terrorism, as it is now in Syria and Iraq. The Americans are currently investigating new slopes in which they want to buy much cheaper devices to support and guide these missions. A number of members of the U.S. Congress discussed a report on the F-35 the day before yesterday. Apparently, the programme that has been running for 16 years cannot be completed in time. The main test phase, the combat capacity, is already one year behind schedule. In other words, no one knows before December 2019 if the F-35 can be used in a fight. Minister, do you think it is normal that the F-35 is already half more expensive? Does the F-35 with all the flaws already known remain an option for you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u74	Mr President, Minister, recently we read in the American press that the State Department of the United States, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has approved the F-35's export licence to Belgium. They proposed to Congress an estimate of the value of the market of $6.53 billion, without indicating what is included there. Can you explain this, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u75	Mr President, on 17 March 2017, in accordance with the government agreement, the government decided to replace the F-16 with an RfGP, a Request for Government Proposal. The procedure therefore concerns competition between different countries. In the week after March 17, five potential candidates came to pick up their files. On 7 September 2017, there was a first deadline for the submission of the file by the candidates who so wished. At that time we received files from two candidates, namely BAE Systems for the Eurofighter Typhoon and the state agency representing the US for the F-35. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is a procedure in progress today with the next expiry date of 14 February. On 14 February we will see which candidates have submitted a best and final sacrifice. Mr Top, it is difficult not to intervene politically. In the past this has been different, but for me it is essential that we have confidence in the more than 30 experts who will each make an evaluation of the various dossiers received in their domain and independently. I do not therefore feel in any way called or bound to give answers today, with an ongoing procedure, about any candidate participating in the competition. I do not feel bound by that at all. I understand that your party is used to other matters and that everything would rather be dealt with differently, but I am carrying out the government's decision of 17 March 2017. [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, please let the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u77	I shall say even more: I think it is totally inappropriate to expect political answers on any candidate during an ongoing procedure, totally inappropriate! Mrs Grosemans, I can assure you that the government has had a long discussion. It has finally been decided to go for an objective, legally correct procedure, and I, as a trade minister, will carry it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u78	I have to say, Minister, that your answer did not mean much in terms of content. You always blame us, that is a first observation. Secondly, when it comes to the price, we have no doubt that the Americans have made an estimate in response to our request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u79	You know more than I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u80	That is what the text says, Minister. You can read that in the text of the U.S. Department. I am therefore disappointed that you continue to follow this dead end and continue to defend the F-35. You let this device play along as a full successor to the F-16, although it is now clear that there are no guarantees of price or timing, it is always postponed, nor is there any guarantee of quality. Yesterday, when discussing the resolution on nuclear weapons, it was clear that the majority opted for an aircraft capable of carrying nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u81	Minister, I found your explanation very clear. Let me explain to Mr Top. Mr Top, the amounts published in the press have nothing to do with the tenders. They came from the U.S. State Department and related to the export license. That's something completely different. Next, this government has decided to replace the F-16 because we want to remain a loyal and effective partner, both within NATO and at European level. We have created an open and transparent competition for this. All aspects are covered, both European cooperation and economic aspects. I also have every confidence in the procedure. The competition runs correctly and legally. Finally, Mr Top, we will certainly proceed in this way, with a proper and legal procedure. We have no interest in procedures based on obscure interests and offers in back rooms. In fact, yesterday it became clear to me in committee that the only people who lobby heavily in this dossier and try in every way to undermine a proper procedure are the Socialists once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u82	Mr Minister, yesterday Brussels Airport Company organised an information meeting for the residents of Kortenberg and Steenokkerzeel on the expansion plans for the airport. Brussels Airport Company is a private company. That's not a public company. You are not a guardian minister of BAC, Minister, you are our Minister of Mobility. The perception of enlargement in recent months is that enlargement is only about infrastructure: about a taxi road next to 25L in Steenokkerzeel and about the possible extension of 25L towards Erps-Kwerps. In my view, there is another possibility of rapidly expanding the airport's capacity, namely to equip the current three jobs with the latest technology to make aircraft land and take off faster. Belgocontrol can also be asked to implement new instruments to improve the handling of flights in narrower corridors. The noise pollution is also generated by old aircraft landing on Zaventem. However, more modern aircraft like the A350, the A380 and the Boeing 787 make much less noise. Even though Brussels Airport Company applies higher landing rates for noisy aircraft, they continue to come here. Minister, last year you visited your Dutch colleagues at Schiphol Airport. Have you seen new technologies and tools there, which could also be implemented by BAC to increase capacity? Is Belgocontrol investigating and implementing new instruments to better organise the handling of air traffic? Will you ask Brussels Airport Company to ban more old aircraft by, for example, charging even higher rates for noisy devices? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u83	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, information meetings were held last night in Steenokkerzeel and Kortenberg, organised by Brussels Airport Company. A number of plans were developed to expand the airport. We are talking about a doubling of the number of passengers by 2040 and a substantial increase in capacity. These proposals represent the creation of new runways and the introduction of new procedures to start with a huge nuisance over certain regions. Minister, you admitted here last week that the government is not in a position to appoint a consultancy firm to consider how to achieve a balanced distribution on the basis of objective criteria. The impasse is total, not only in terms of objectification, but also politically through the political decisions of the Brussels Region on fines, a long-standing problem. At that time, BAC is launching a completely new think trail, which runs counter to all the efforts you have made. This is not accepted in the Flemish Rand. The new slopes mean a heavy load towards Kortenberg and Leuven. In addition, one goes up towards Zaventem I live in Zaventem, Sterrebeek or Tervuren, all the Flemish east edge gets half of all flights over it. That's the best way to get to nothing. BAC is, of course, an autonomous company, but the president of BAC is Mr Marc Descheemaecker, who also profiled himself in other cases last week. Well, he is actually politically responsible for what BAC is proposing, and so BAC basically bases all the efforts you have made on the basis of a balanced agreement, efforts that I very much appreciate. I am not talking about the hypocrisy that is being shown. While some N-VA mayors in the region are protesting loudly and rightly against the nuisance, Mr Descheemaecker fully supports the expansion of the airport. That's total hypocrisy. Mr Minister, I would therefore ask you to contact Mr Descheemaecker, who is President of Brussels Airport Company, so that he no longer organises hearings to undermine the support for the presence of the airport, even though it is intended to grow, in a balance between economics and ecology.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Brussels Airport Company is a private and not a public company. The federal government is only shareholder of the airport. As Minister of Mobility, I do not have custody of Brussels Airport. However, I am competent for the licence granted to Brussels Airport in 2004 which allows maximum hourly capacity. However, that is not what the debate is about. Brussels Airport Company is preparing its future. Like other private companies, it must do so within the legal framework that applies, for example, to the necessary permits. The company communicates about that process in the way it wishes it. As a politician and as a citizen, I expect it to do so in a full, transparent and fair way. However, Mr Van Rompuy, I have no competence in this matter. Mr Vandenput, there are indeed opportunities to increase capacity. Those are technology tools. For example, there are tools that rationalise air traffic management, which can increase capacity and reduce noise pollution. Belgocontrol is in the process of analysing such tools. However, as I have already said, that is not today's question. Brussels Airport Company plans to increase its capacity by 2040. Today's question concerns a global approach to the problem of the current nuisance around the airport and the necessary balance between the economy and the well-being of the population imposed by the government agreement. In this context, I have made several concrete proposals. The reduction in the number of aircraft making too much noise and its replacement by modern and thus quieter aircraft are part of that broad package of measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. Our party is in favour of increasing the capacity of the airport and we cannot lag behind with Brussels while the growth in other airports is noticeable. Our airport provides jobs and prosperity for the region, but the expansion of capacity can only take place in harmony with the surroundings and residents. We are convinced that we must first implement the technological solutions before expropriating people or concreteing green spaces for the possible extension of the runways. No extension for us, no expropriation. We believe that even more noisy containers should be banned. The rates for those devices still have to go up. Let us focus on these two measures over the next few months and years, so that we do not have to worry the inhabitants about infrastructure plans that probably do not need to be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u86	I agree with both Mr Vandenput and the Minister. At the moment we are dealing with the whole debate on Brussels and the fines. Moreover, the file has been blocked for years. It's true that you have nothing to say to BAC. However, if the chairman of the board of directors supports plans that are contrary to what the government is doing, I believe that N-VA is still part of the government, which undermines the whole of the policy that needs to be pursued. Mr Vandenput knows that we are in favour of maintaining and increasing employment in our region. I've been ships in Zaventem for 20 years. There are 60 000 people working on our territory. The airport will only survive if there is a balanced distribution that takes into account the viability of a number of municipalities. By submitting plans to the population, with half of the flights going over Leuven and Tervuren, the support is destroyed. If BAC thinks that this is the way to prepare the future, I can only condemn it. It's not about party politics. I am also speaking as a resident of the region, which has been involved in this for 20 years. If there is no future balance, no distribution plan, no flight law, the future of the airport, including employment, is mortgaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u87	The question is addressed to Minister De Block, but Minister Ducarme is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u88	Mr Minister, the day before yesterday you submitted a draft law to the committee to tighten up the monitoring of urgent medical aid for alleged abuse. After a long time of pressing, we were given the figures on the so-called abuses. Do you know how many cases it was, colleagues? About 12 individual situations at six months. Let me give you an example. You're talking about abuse in plastic surgery. It concerns one case, ladies and gentlemen, of one situation, while the report also makes a clear reference to a majority of situations including cancer, dialysis and heart failure. How harsh is this government? First, you're targeting civilians who are receiving refugees. Now you are targeting doctors who, often voluntarily and for free, give medical help to very vulnerable people. You and Minister De Block have jurisdiction. That's why I have three questions for you. Firstly, do you confirm that this bill was discussed in the Council of Ministers on 20 July 2017? Vice Prime Minister Jambon stated in this regard that it was not discussed in the Council of Ministers. Second, the doctors swore Hippocrates' oath. Minister De Block is a doctor. She swore that oath, too. Are you not confident, then, Minister, that doctors, in all conscience, will decide who will receive what medical aid? Thirdly, why are you increasing these abuses?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u89	Mr President, Mrs Dedry, you refer to our long debate on Tuesday in the Committee on Health during the presentation of the draft law on urgent medical care. It concerns a draft law which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 20 July. You may recall that the long debate ended with a vote, Rule by Rule, and that vote was positive. Some articles were even adopted unanimously. I therefore conclude that the text does not sow as much division as some do. That bill must be looked at in its entirety. It provides concrete improvements for all actors who have also been consulted. The design does not touch the foundations of urgent medical attention. On the contrary, it strengthens it. First, the extension of the period prior to the OCMW's decision to charge from 45 to 60 days meets a demand from the OCMW's. Secondly, the change in the rules of jurisdiction will make it possible to guarantee the patient the continuity of his concerns. Thirdly, this draft, which was approved by the Council of Ministers in July, aims to strengthen the control capacity of the HZIV through an auditor. That's what the coalition agreement says. Prior to the MediPrima controls, those controls were carried out by the OMCWs. That's not new. Emergency medical aid is one of the essential elements of everyone's right to human dignity. Everyone agrees on that. However, the HZIV's advisory physician's analysis covers a limited number of cases, namely 6 % between January and June 2016, and so we should not be so precise, Mrs. Dedry... on all cases of urgent medical assistance over that period. I don't think you'll question this doctor's professionalism either. Our debate continues. This was requested by the Committee on Health in the context of the second reading of this draft. So I'll see you very soon, Mrs. Dedry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u90	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that we at least agree on a matter, namely that every person has the right to urgent medical assistance and that this is about necessary help, because it is a human right. I do not dispute at all that you are making technical improvements to the law. I voted for it, but it is a fact that you have a whole article that deals with content and where you only delegate to the King. As a result, we cannot and will not have a parliamentary debate. Finally, I find it very sad that you are basing a policy on a number of abuses and on one analysis. This is not a careful policy, this is symbolic policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u91	Mr. Secretary of State, in October 2013, on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit in Bali, the Chinese authorities expressed the idea of founding the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. On the proposal of the Belgian Finance Minister, the Council of Ministers agreed in principle to our country's candidacy as an ordinary member of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, founded in 2014. Belgium is therefore now a member, along with 84 other States and institutions. Last December, Ecuador and other countries joined them. Our country's participation is aimed at achieving a dual objective. The first is to be able to monitor from the inside compliance with the rules of international financing of infrastructure, particularly in the social sphere, as well as with respect to human rights and the environment. Second, it will enable our companies to become more familiar in Asia and thus penetrate local markets. I come to my questions, Secretary of State. I would like to know your first assessment of Belgian participation in this regional institution, as well as the economic opportunities that we have already been able to seize. Secondly, in order to strengthen our influence in this bank, should we not favour the presence of the European Union as such instead of individual Member States? For now, a dozen of them are part of it. Finally, are we in favour of better coordination between this new Asian bank - of Chinese inspiration, let us be clear -, the World Bank, more American inspiration, and the Asian Development Bank, which is most often led by Japan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u92	Dear colleague, thank you for this very interesting question. In 2013, on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit, the Chinese authorities created the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. It is not a credit-providing bank, but a bank that focuses on infrastructure development. In June 2015, the Belgian Council of Ministers announced the Belgian candidature as a non-founder. This application was accepted by the board of directors in March 2017. The bill is currently in Parliament. Next, the capital tranche will have to be paid as an effective member. After a first payment, we will be able to participate in the work of the bank as a member of the board of directors. The European Union, within this bank, supports the agenda of the European Union and the Member States of this bank. This is an additional lever for Belgian companies, which allows us to become familiar with projects of different sizes than we have known before. These are different sectors, including underground work for the metro, the construction of power plants, the development of port or even airport projects, for which Belgian companies have a very good reputation. The bank is now in the start-up phase and we have supported our businesses as best we can. It is important to know that there are also other instruments, you have referred to them, such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) or the World Bank, and finally the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which we often forget to name in Belgium but which remains very important for our companies. I had the opportunity to meet Mr Jin Liqun, the president of the bank, at the Federation of Belgian Enterprises (FEB), the day before yesterday. Belgium will cover 2,846 shares equivalent to $56.9 million, which will be paid in instalments over a five-year period.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u93	Mr Secretary of State, I thank you for your answer, which enabled the Assembly to better understand a recent institution, which is still very unknown. I would like to continue to raise awareness of the issue of respect by this bank for environmental rights and human rights, including social rights. This seems extremely important to me, as well as better coordination with the other two banks I mentioned and, Mr Secretary of State, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), which you yourself mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u94	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u95	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Werner Janssen. He shall refer to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u96	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this project to create four new thresholds for the reduction of temporary employer contributions enables the self-employed to better adapt their social contributions to their real income. Indeed, an independent person may face a range of various difficulties. With this measure, the self-employed person will be able to reduce his cash flow by an amount of contributions that would have been repaid to him later anyway. It should also be pointed out that the four new contribution thresholds will be budget neutral after two years once the self-employed concerned have been regularised in the meantime. In addition, this project also stimulates entrepreneurship by reaching young people and start-ups by allowing them to pay reduced contributions during the first year of activity. More than ten thousand independent beginners should be able to benefit from this measure each year. This should give a useful boost to all those who hesitate to undertake, especially young people who have to go through a period of probation in the liberal professions where the first months can be particularly difficult at the financial level. These two measures are part of the continuity of the work initiated by this government and our Minister, Mr.Ducarme, in favour of the self-employed. Moreover, entrepreneurship indicators are open. The number of self-employed is steadily increasing (currently 1,076 million) and is increasing every year. Therefore, our group in the Reform Movement can only support the measures that this text introduces.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u97	Mr President, the project we are examining today received broad support in the Committee on the Economy last week. It was adopted unanimously. I hope it will be the same later. This unanimity reflects the importance of the two measures introduced by this bill for the self-employed. The first measure introduces into the social status of self-employed workers a new threshold of social contributions and two new reduction thresholds for starters, i.e. the self-employed who start, as well as all young trainees lawyers, architects or others. They will be able to benefit from this measure at the beginning of their career. The second measure creates four new reduction thresholds for all categories of self-employed workers. If your assembly adopts these measures, we will be able to increase our support for the self-employed and thus help ensure that the burdens are better adapted to the present economic reality of the self-employed. Those who find it difficult to start their business will be covered by the "starter" measure. As Mr Friart indicated, they will be able to benefit more than ten thousand in the first year. The four new thresholds for the reduction of provisional contributions will help to relieve those who face difficulties during their activity. With the current thresholds, 16,247 independents in 2015 and 25,987 independents in 2016 called for a reduction in their provisional contributions due to a decrease in their income. The objective of the measure is that this possibility of reduction be offered in all circumstances of income decline and that interim contributions be more in tune with the economic situation of each independent. As Mr Friart pointed out, it is all the more necessary for the self-employed because he is often dependent on the economic situation but also on the small number of clients, which in a number of cases results in a fairly strong form of economic dependence. The "new thresholds" measure will initially cost EUR 5.3 million. As part of our exchanges in committee, I had the opportunity to remind Mrs Winckel that the operation would be budgetaryly neutral after two years. All the independents concerned will have been regularised in the meantime. The "starter" measure will cost EUR 20 million per year. There will therefore be EUR 25 million to support the self-employed. The discussions in committee were very constructive, particularly with Mrs Dierick, Mr Casier and Mr Janssens. They pointed out that the measure would be the subject of a necessary and adequate promotion, in particular through social insurance funds. So I went back to the key lines of this bill, which is a new big step forward for the independents. I hope that they will receive the unanimous support of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u98	Mr President, allow me to make a positive statement on this proposal. Of course, we appreciate the two improvements made by this bill in the area of social security contributions for the self-employed. As you mentioned recently in your policy note, as in 2015, the growth of self-employment has been higher than that of paid employment. In 2016, the number of self-employed jobs increased by 1.8%, or 15,000 units. At the same time, wage employment increased by 1.4%, or by 45,000 units. On this occasion, we expressed our concern about the precariousness of new jobs, based on the figures provided in the 2017 report of the Higher Employment Council for Employees. I had held that one in six independents would currently live below the poverty line. It therefore seems important to give the self-employed more flexibility to adjust their interim payments downwards in the event of a fall in income as a result of temporary difficulties, such as work in their neighbourhoods or a health problem. We also appreciate the boost to starters. This measure will cost EUR 20 million on an annual basis, but we can afford it since the social system of the self-employed is currently on the increase. However, I would like to express our concern at the loss of profits caused by the cuts in contributions for the financing of social security. This concern goes beyond the scope of this bill, but I would like to point out that successive reductions in social contributions should not lead to a gradual dismantling of the system by imposing ever more savings. In our view, we would need a reform of the social security funding base to avoid this pitfall. This is a much broader debate, and I agree with it. For the time being, I confirm that we will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u99	Mr. Chair, after hearing from Ms.Caprasse, I welcome the positive assessments she has made of Minister Ducrame's bill and would like to point out to her that this is a concrete social liberalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u100	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u101	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2880/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2880/1) The draft law contains 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u102	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u103	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Ine Somers, Jan Vercammen, Damien Thiéry, Els Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u104	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2163/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2163/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Anne Dedry and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Dirk Janssens. They shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u105	Colleagues, in 2003 the World Health Organisation stated in its report a lack of compliance. Therapy loyalty increases the effectiveness of all kinds of interventions, and promoting therapy loyalty will have a much greater impact on the health of the population than any specific improvement in a particular medical treatment. I believe that this statement is significant. Adherence to therapy in chronic treatments is usually approximately 50%, regardless of the condition, treatment plan or method of measurement. It is estimated that 50% to 70% of patients taking chronic medicinal products will stop treatment without cause within the year. So there are still many possibilities for improvement. Not only for chronic patients but also for patients who, for example, have to take a single course of antibiotics. I do not want to repeat what has been said in committee, but I think we should concentrate on a number of important policies. First of all, the patient is central. What's to stop him from staying loyal to his therapy? How can the healthcare provider link therapy with the patient's personal goals? Secondly, there is the communication between the caregiver and the patient, and between the caregivers. The most amazing finding in the preparation of this resolution was how often the patient does not understand his caregiver and has no understanding of his illness. The patient does not understand exactly what his therapy means and what the importance of maintaining that therapy is. Therefore, focusing on communication with the patient, checking whether the patient has understood the healthcare provider, is particularly important, especially now that the patient is more and more regarded as the central actor in healthcare. Good communication between actors in order to achieve an integrated approach is also needed. The eHealthplan already offers the necessary facilities. Thirdly, we have the integrated operation. Doctors, pharmacists, nurses, caregivers and not to mention the care of the care provider should promote compliance. They need to guide the patient, identify possible obstacles and look together for ways to remedy them, find innovative means that can help the patient to remain faithful to his therapy. Because compliance is such a complex thing, an individual approach will have to be developed for each patient with infidelity to therapy. Since our previous resolution on therapy loyalty, steps have been taken forward. I am thinking of the Minister's measure of working with a house pharmacist for chronic patients. Especially in the field of pharmaceutical therapy loyalty, this drug specialist is the most suitable person to work on a clear medication schedule, to check patient compliance through the medication delivered, and to provide clear and understandable information on the added value and use of medication. In one sentence: good therapeutic care can represent an important step forward in the field of therapy loyalty. It is looking at the future and the developments that are emerging and announcing and looking at how we can preserve important achievements within these future developments. There has been a discussion about the fact that we would like to promote the online pharmacy. I would like to say that we do not want to bury our heads in the sand. Perhaps not us but certainly our children will use the online pharmacy, also for prescription medicines. It is our duty to consider how we can safeguard the pharmaceutical care that we put in place today, including the home pharmacy, in this online story. Online selling should not mean that the pharmacist no longer has to or will not observe his pharmaceutical task. The same applies to the standing order. Here too, there is always a need for interdisciplinary cooperation between doctors and pharmacists and a proper follow-up of the patient. Seeing how we can simplify things for the patient without compromising the quality of care and the caregiver's control is also a task of the government. Given the importance of therapy loyalty, we believe that it is right to set up a working group in which representatives of all parties are present: doctors, pharmacists, nurses, caregivers, the pharmaceutical industry and representatives of our patients. The task of the working group is to report annually on the implementation of this resolution and the gaps still to be detected. He should also make proposals to address the problems and gaps identified. In this way, a dynamic can be created to move forward each time in promoting compliance, taking into account the new opportunities and challenges.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after 23 years as a doctor, of which 6 years as a university ant in training with a small salary and a lot of work and 17 years as a doctor-specialist in cardiology with a slightly higher wage and still a lot of work, it turned out that I was wearing serious blinders. I thought I was one of those top doctors with fantastic and sympathetic patients who were driven and faithfully taking all their medication correctly. There was nothing less true, however, at the parliamentary conference which Mr Somers van Open Vld and myself patronized over a year ago. Several experts on therapy loyalty, among others colleague Van Camp who devoted her doctorate, brought me back on the ground word for word with both feet. In the meantime, for my own job, I've drawn my personal conclusions. In response, I am somewhat further into politics, at the N-VA. The general conclusions and recommendations can be found in the resolution now before us. We want to get to work on this. "Drugs don't work in patients who don't take them." We must avoid this at all costs in a health system sponsored by the government and developed and therefore financed by public funds. Not only is it a missed chance of an improvement in public health due to the absence of the intended cure or progress. It's also wasted money and wasted energy. That is why there are the measures and the steps we want to propose together in the resolution. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resources of our social security are limited. The resources that Father State can spend on public health are limited. They must therefore be used efficiently. The resolution before us can only underline that there is work on the table at different levels and for different actors: for patients but also for doctors, pharmacists and other care providers, such as carers and family. Optimization and improvement of many facets are possible. You will find them in the resolution. I have to raise a warning for all of us here. The matthew effect is a well-known phenomenon in the world of public health. Whoever has will be given. Well-meaning initiatives and advice are usually taken to heart by those who are already doing well, patients and caregivers who have already done their best. Those who could benefit most from it often follow too little. As we speak, 25% of the total cost of our public health already comes from our own pocket. It is about six to seven billion euros a year, depending on the source. As we speak, we see that hospital funding has to be maintained more and more by supplements and hospitalization insurance. The chance that this sector and its organisms, I and some others, dare to call this aloud the second pillar of our health care will use these elements in the resolution to keep their insured people on the right path, both through positive and negative incentives, is real. What could these positive incentives be? These are discounts on the cost of the policy and additional coverage in the area of luxury and quality of care. Your fantasy can still be replenished. Negative incentives can be higher contributions or the exclusion of people who, despite various advices and multiple interventions, persist in anger, such as too much alcohol, too much tobacco, too little exercise or too little dental care. I must remind you all that our car insurance also knows the bonusmalus. The intended evolution is therefore far from imaginary. I'm rounding up. As a citizen and a politician, I hope it doesn't come to that. As a citizen and a politician, I would like to stress that each of us should, as far as possible of course, take responsibility for his own health. As a doctor and a politician, I realize that this is a work in progress. The greatest enemy of good is the perfect thing, says our group leader, to help all bits. Similarly, this resolution is a step in the right direction. A health system supported by solidarity is the highest benefit for our society. The survival of such a system requires solidarity in health, inter alia through the adherence of citizens to therapy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group welcomes the adoption in committee of the motion for a resolution to put in place an action plan to promote therapeutic compliance. This initiative stems from a day of study organised by my colleagues Ine Somers, Jan Vercammen and Damien Thiéry whom I thank for exploiting this subject and for proposing concrete actions. Therapeutic accession is a major public health problem. As noted in committee, therapeutic non-compliance has consequences for the patient. By way of example, by following his treatment poorly, the patient does not heal, his condition worsens, the doctor must investigate to prescribe another treatment. Therefore, a therapeutic observation has a significant cost to the patient and to the public authorities. It is therefore important that this issue be taken into account with concrete action. Resolution puts the patient at the heart of the device: therapeutic adherence is the patient's business. There is a need to develop policies to support the patient through the correct information and awareness of the patient and the caregivers, in particular. The resolution also aims at an integrated approach with the collaboration of all health care providers. The role of the physician, and in particular the role of the general practitioner and pharmacist, is clearly highlighted in the search for better compliance. We also plead for better coordination between the different providers of care – I have already talked about the doctor and the pharmacist – i.e. other providers such as home-based nursing practitioners. This coordination is important and obvious for better therapeutic adherence. Item 8 of the resolution was discussed. It must of course be read and considered as having as its aim the search for a better therapeutic observance within the framework of standing order and delivery, during the provision of online pharmaceutical service that are and become a reality. These are developments that are happening in our society and that need to be marked. It remains essential for the patient to maintain contact with the prescribing physician, but also with other caregivers. Pharmaceutical monitoring is also important. That is the meaning of this resolution and of this point. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thirteen axes are being developed here to promote therapeutic compliance, thirteen axes for the benefit of the patient, thirteen axes for meeting a major public health objective. The MR Group will therefore support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, therapeutic accession is a public health problem that needs to be addressed. Therapeutic non-observance, particularly when it comes to chronic pathology, can in fact lead to loss of quality of life, a worsening of the disease for the patient and, therefore, to additional expenditure on the health care budget. In 2013, our group had already supported a motion for a resolution in this context. We were very much in favour of working again on this issue. However, the text which was finally presented to us by the colleagues of the majority does not meet our full support, because of certain requests made which we do not consider at all in line with the objective pursued. In addition to the remarks we have made in committee and on which I will not come back, I would like to mention an important element of this text which is a problem for us. The resolution provides for the possibility of providing for standing order prescriptions, the automatic delivery of medicines and the possibility of ordering medicines online. Do you really think, ladies and gentlemen, that this will help to promote therapeutic compliance in patients? This is for us completely incoherent! Indeed, for our group, it is essential that the patient be able to have repeated contacts with primary care providers - I am thinking here of general practitioners and pharmacists - in order to ensure precisely this famous therapeutic adhesion. Such contacts allow the patient to have adequate information, to re-evaluate his or her membership and to exchange information on the difficulties or questions he or she may have regarding treatment. It therefore seems to us that an internet dispensation does not bring added value in terms of therapeutic compliance. On the contrary, it seems interesting to us to develop solutions for patients who cannot physically go to the pharmacy, while guaranteeing the quality of care and the direct relationship with the pharmacist. This is obviously not the direction chosen here. For this reason, in particular, we will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u109	Mr President, our group is very keen to support this resolution, which is a strong impetus for the development of an action plan for greater therapy in chronically ill patients. We know that one in four Belgians suffers from a chronic disease. It is therefore important to encourage these patients to be faithful to therapy. It is, of course, also important that many different actors are involved, such as, of course, the patients themselves, in order to sensitise them, but also their caregivers. The general practitioners and the house pharmacist are also important actors. What we think is particularly important, and we have also included in this text, is that mental health care is taken into account. We know from scientific research that lack of therapy is mainly due to motivational and emotional aspects. That's why people stop taking their medication. It is therefore very important to enable therapeutic interventions to be carried out, in order to create a lasting adherence to therapy. We absolutely support this resolution and hope to be able to develop an action plan soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u110	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u111	Recital/Considers I(n) - 7 - Catherine Fonck (2163/6) Demand/Request 8 - 8 - Catherine Fonck (2163/6) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u112	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u113	The list of three candidates nominated by the Council of State for the post of French speaking assessor was communicated to you at the plenary session of 14 December 2017. The list of three candidates nominated by the Conseil d'État pour l'emploi d'Assisteur francophone was communicated to you during the plenary session of December 14, 2017. Since the nomination was not unanimous, the Chamber of Representatives could, in accordance with Article 70 (1) of the Laws on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State or propose another list of three names within 30 days of receipt of the notification of the nomination. Since the presentation was not unanimous, the House of Representatives could, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, act on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, within a period of not more than 30 days from the date of receipt of the presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three names. The deadline available to the Chamber to submit a list or to confirm the list expired on 19 January 2018. The time available to the Chamber to present a list or to confirm the list expired on 19 January 2018. Since this deadline has expired, the list proposed by the Council of State is considered approved. As the deadline has expired, the list submitted by the Council of State is considered to have been adopted by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u114	By letter of 15 January 2018, the first President of the Council of State informed that the General Assembly of that Council, at its open session on 5 December 2017, has drawn up lists of three candidates for the first and third vacant posts of the State Council in the French-speaking framework, in accordance with Article 70 of the coordinated laws of the Council of State. By letter of 15 January 2018, the first President of the Council of State informed the House that, at its public hearing of 5 December 2017, the General Assembly of that Council had proceeded, in accordance with Article 70 of the Coordinated Laws on the Council of State, to the establishment of lists of three candidates for the first and third vacant seats of State councillor in the Francophone linguistic group. It was proposed by the Council of State, however, without unanimity: The Council of State, however, did not unanimously present: For the first vacant job: For the first vacant place: First candidate: Ms Nathalie Van Laer, First Auditor at the Council of State. First candidate: Nathalie Van Laer, first auditor at the Council of State. Second candidate: Mrs Elisabeth Willemart, auditor at the Council of State. Second candidate: Ms Elisabeth Willemart, auditor at the Council of State. Third candidate: Mr Luc Donnay, auditor at the Council of State. Third candidate: Mr. Luc Donnay, auditor at the Council of State. For the third vacant job: For the third vacant place: First candidate: Mr Marc Joassart, First Auditor at the Council of State. First candidate: Mr Marc Joassart, first auditor at the Council of State. Second candidate: Mrs Elisabeth Willemart, auditor at the Council of State. Second candidate: Ms Elisabeth Willemart, auditor at the Council of State. Third candidate: Ms Florence Piret, auditor at the Council of State. Third candidate: Ms Florence Piret, auditor at the Council of State. Since both nominations are not unanimous, the Chamber of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70 (1), eighth paragraph, of the laws of the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State or propose another list of three names, which shall be expressly stated, within a maximum period of 30 days from the date of receipt of this nomination. Since the presentation is not unanimous for either of the two presentations, the House of Representatives may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of the Acts on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, within a period not exceeding 30 days from the date of receipt of that presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three names which is formally motivated. Any nomination of another list by the Chamber shall be made on the basis of applications received by the Council of State. The possible submission of another list by the Chamber should be based on the nominations received by the Council of State. The time limit available to the Chamber to propose a different list or to confirm the list shall expire on 15 February 2018. The time available to the Chamber to present another list or to confirm the list expires on 15 February 2018. For the first job, the following applications were submitted: Mr Raphaël Born, Hearing Officer at the Council of State Mr Manuel Descamps, Deputy Auditor at the Court of Auditors Mr Luc Donnay, Auditor at the Council of State Ms Angélique Gérard, Legal Adviser to the Railway Safety and Interoperability Service (DVIS) Mr Laurent Jans, First Auditor at the Council of State Mr Marc Joassart, First Auditor at the Council of State Mr Marc Oswald, Auditor at the Council of State Ms Florence Piret, Hearing Officer at the Council of State Mr Patrick Ronvaux, First Auditor at the Council of State Ms Nathalie Van Laer, First Auditor at the Council of State Mr Gaël Watteuw, Executive Board at the Registry of the Council of the French Community Commission Ms Elisabeth Willemart, Auditor at the Council of State Mr Dimitri Yernault, Legal Adviser to the Brussels Regional Investment Company / finance.brussels and expert at the French-speaking chambers of the Council of State Legislation Department (for the law on public undertakings and public services). For the first place, the following applications were submitted: Mr Raphaël Born, Auditor at the Council of State Mr Manuel Descamps, Deputy Auditor at the Court of Auditors Luc Donnay, Auditor at the Council of State Ms. Angélique Gérard, Legal Adviser, Railway Safety and Interoperability Service (SSICF) Mr Laurent Jans, first auditor at the Council of State Mr Marc Joassart, first auditor at the Council of State Mr Marc Oswald, Auditor at the Council of State Florence Piret, Auditor at the Council of State Mr Patrick Ronvaux, first auditor at the Council of State Nathalie Van Laer, first auditor at the Council of State Mr Gaël Watteeuw, Executive Counsellor at the Registry of the Assembly of the French Community Commission Elisabeth Willemart, Auditor at the Council of State Mr Dimitri Yernault, Legal Adviser, Public Affairs, Brussels Regional Investment Corporation / finance.brussels and expert in the French-speaking chambers of the legislative section of the Conseil d'État (for the law of public enterprises and public services). Mr Gaël Watteuw withdrew his candidacy by e-mail dated 6 November 2017. Gaël Watteeuw withdrew his application by e-mail on November 6, 2017. For the third job, the following applications were submitted: Mr Raphaël Born, Hearing Officer at the Council of State Mr Luc Donnay, Auditor at the Council of State Mr Laurent Jans, First Auditor at the Council of State Mr Marc Joassart, First Auditor at the Council of State Mr Marc Oswald, Auditor at the Council of State Ms Florence Piret, Hearing Officer at the Council of State Mr Patrick Ronvaux, First Auditor at the Council of State Ms Nathalie Van Laer, First Auditor at the Council of State Ms Elisabeth Willemart, Auditor at the Council of State Mr Roger Wimmer, First Auditor at the Council of State. For the third place, the following applications were submitted: Mr Raphaël Born, Auditor at the Council of State Luc Donnay, Auditor at the Council of State Mr Laurent Jans, first auditor at the Council of State Mr Marc Joassart, first auditor at the Council of State Mr Marc Oswald, Auditor at the Council of State Florence Piret, Auditor at the Council of State Mr Patrick Ronvaux, first auditor at the Council of State Nathalie Van Laer, first auditor at the Council of State Elisabeth Willemart, Auditor at the Council of State Mr. Roger Wimmer, first auditor at the Council of State. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 January 2018, I propose that the nominations of the Council of State and the CVs of the candidates be sent to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 January 2018, I propose that you forward to the political groups the presentations of the Council of State and the curricula vitae of the candidates. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u115	The next item is the secret ballots on the double number of candidates to be nominated by the Chamber for the appointment of a Dutch-speaking judge to the Constitutional Court. The next item is the elections for the double list of candidates to be submitted by the Chamber for the appointment of a Dutch-speaking judge to the Constitutional Court. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 11 January 2018. Nominations were announced in plenary on January 11, 2018. The document containing the names of the candidates (document No. 2899/1) has been distributed. The document bearing the names of the candidates (Doc. No. 2899/1) was distributed. The Chamber must proceed to the secret ballot. I recall that, pursuant to Article 32 (1) of the Special Law of 6 January 1989 at the Constitutional Court, the double number must be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present. The vote should be taken. I would remind you that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 32 of the Special Act of 6 January 1989 on the Constitutional Court, the double list must be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the members present. The ballots for the first candidate have already been distributed. Ballot papers for the first candidate were distributed. Since the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. Mr Vuye, you are asking to speak on this point?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u116	Mr President, I have heard from the media who would like to nominate the majority as a judge in the Constitutional Court. However, I would like to point out that the non-approved groups have not even received the CVs from my fellow Members. This means that a number of Members of Parliament are excluded from the audit. I would also like to point out that the EU is difficult to deal with Poland, because the judges of the highest court in that country are appointed politically. The EU is even launching a procedure under Article 7 against Poland. Mr Verhofstadt criticises the situation in Poland and swings like a mill, but as usual he turns out to be a windmill, because here his party does exactly the same. So we really should not give Poland any lessons about political appointments to the Constitutional Court, because what the Chamber is about to do is exactly the same, namely to proceed with a political appointment. I very much object to that. A constitutional court composed of twelve politically appointed judges is not actually a constitutional court. In a state governed by the rule of law, that is normally different. In any case, Mr Verhofstadt will stop teaching social media to the Poles, because his party is doing exactly the same here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u117	You're well aware of that, Mr. Vuye. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Nawal Ben Hamou en Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I would point out that only ballot papers bearing the name of a candidate nominated for the vote are valid. The votes cast on more than one candidate shall be invalid. I would point out that only ballot papers which mention the name of a candidate presented before the vote are valid and that the votes cast in favour of more than one candidate are invalid. We shall therefore proceed to the vote for the first candidate. We shall therefore proceed to the vote for the first candidate. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u118	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u119	The delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly currently consists of: The House delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is currently composed of: Effective members: Ms Karolien Grosemans Mr Damien Thiéry Mr Veli Yüksel Mr Luk Van Biesen Mr Alain Top Effective members: Ms. Karolien Grosemans Mr. Damien Thiéry Mr Veli Yüksel M. Luk Van Biesen M. Alain Top Deputy members: Mr Peter Buysrogge Mr Sébastian Pirlot Mr Wouter De Vriendt Mr Georges Dallemagne Alternate members: Mr. Peter Buysrogge Mr Sébastian Pirlot M. Wouter De Vriendt Mr Georges Dallemagne In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 January 2018, I propose that this composition be retained until the end of the current parliamentary term in 2019, even though the actual association was dissolved. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 January 2018, I propose that you do not change this composition until the end of this Parliament in 2019, although the de facto association is dissolved. In order to designate the delegation for the period following the end of the current parliamentary term, the Conference of Presidents proposes that the distribution of the mandates for the Chamber and Senate should be calculated separately and by political group, on the basis of the results of the election according to the Dío Hondt system. With a view to the appointment of the delegation at the end of this legislature, the Conference of Presidents proposes that the distribution of mandates, which will take place separately for the House and the Senate and by political group, be calculated on the basis of the electoral results obtained, in accordance with the D-Hondt system. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u120	On Tuesday 23 January 2018, delegations of the Chamber and of the Council of the French Community Commission consulted on the conflict of interest on the draft law amending the law on the exercise of health professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015, No. 2652. On Tuesday, January 23, 2018, a consultation took place between a delegation from the Chamber and the Assembly of the French Community Commission on the conflict of interest on the draft law amending the law relating to the exercise of the health care professions, coordinated on May 10, 2015, n° 2652. On Wednesday, 24 January 2018, delegations of the Chamber and of the Council of the French Community Commission consulted on the conflict of interest on the draft law on non-recognition of services performed as an unappointed staff member for a public sector pension, amending the individual accountability of the provincial and local authorities within the consolidated Pension Fund, adapting the supplementary pension regulations, amending the modalities of financing the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities and providing additional funding for the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities, No. 2718. On Wednesday, January 24, 2018, a delegation from the Chamber and the Assembly of the French Community Commission on the conflict of interest took part in a consultation on the draft law on the non-appropriation of services as unappointed personnel in a public sector pension, amending the individual accountability of provincial and local governments within the Consolidated Pension Fund, adapting the regulation of supplementary pensions, amending the financing arrangements of the Solidarity Pension Fund of local and provincial governments and providing additional funding for the Solidarity Pension Fund of local and provincial governments, No. 2718. It is noted that the two rounds of consultations between the delegation of the Council of the French Community Commission and the delegation of the Chamber of Representatives have not led to a solution. It is noted that the two consultations between the delegation of the Assembly of the French Community Commission and the delegation of the House of Representatives did not lead to a solution. I would remind you that Article 32, Paragraph 1, paragraph 1, of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reform provides that "If the consultation does not lead to a solution within the 60-day period, the dispute shall be brought before the Senate which shall deliver a reasoned opinion within 30 days to the Consultative Committee which shall decide within 30 days in accordance with the procedure of the consensus." I would remind you that Article 32, paragraph 1 quater, paragraph 1, of the ordinary law of 9 August 1980 on institutional reforms provides that if the conciliation procedure has not been completed within 60 days, the Senate shall be seized of the dispute and shall deliver, within 30 days, a reasoned opinion to the Concertation Committee which shall issue a decision in accordance with the consensus procedure within 30 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u121	On 29 March 2017, the Conference of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Assembly approved the Cooperation Agreement between the Federal State, the Regions, the Communities, the French Community Commission and the Joint Community Committee on the exercise of the powers conferred on national parliaments by the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Protocols annexed thereto. On 29 March 2017, the Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Assemblies approved the Cooperation Agreement between the Federal State, the Regions, the Communities, the French Community Commission and the Joint Community Commission on the exercise of the powers conferred on national parliaments by the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Protocols thereto. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 January 2018, I propose that the cooperation agreement be sent to the Committee for the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions for approval by the plenary. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 January 2018, I propose that you send the cooperation agreement to the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions with a view to submitting it to the plenary assembly. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u122	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 January 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Frédéric Daerden) amending the Code of Income Tax 1992 to take account of the scope of the concept of remuneration of the manager for determining the corporation tax rate, No. 2909/1. - the legislative proposal (Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Stéphane Crusnière and Mr Frédéric Daerden) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 to take account of the conditions of application of the tax concession rate for SMEs, No. 2910/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u123	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Karine Lalieux, Mr Frédéric Daerden and Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Eric Massin and Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois, Mrs Laurette Onkelinx and Mr Ahmed Laaouej) to regulate and ensure the protection and remuneration of employees of the recognised platform economy, No. 2912/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u124	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Ms Sonja Becq and Mr Peter Dedecker and Mr Gilles Foret) amending the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, No. 2913/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u125	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 January 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Stéphane Crusnière and Frédéric Daerden) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 concerning the scope of the concept of "remuneration" for the determination of the corporate tax rate, No. 2909/1. - the bill (MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Stéphane Crusnière and Frédéric Daerden) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 concerning the conditions for applying the preferential tax rate applicable to SMEs, No 2910/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u126	- the bill (Ms. Karine Lalieux, MM. Frédéric Daerden and Jean-Marc Delizée, Ms Fabienne Winckel, MM. Eric Massin and Paul-Olivier Delannois, Ms Laurette Onkelinx and Mr Ahmed Laaouej) to supervise and guarantee the protection and remuneration of workers in the economy of approved platforms, No. 2912/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u127	- the bill (Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Sonja Becq and Messrs. Peter Dedecker and Gilles Foret) amending the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, No. 2913/11.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u128	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose to you the legislative proposal (Mr Benoît Piedboeuf) establishing a VAT compensation fund for municipalities and OMCWs, in relation to their investments contributing to the transition to a low carbon society (No. 2915/1 to be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u129	I also propose that you take into consideration the proposal for a law (Mr Benoît Piedboeuf) to create a VAT compensation fund for municipalities and CPAS on public investments promoting the transition to a low-carbon society, No. 2915/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u130	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u131	Mr President, my group is asking for urgency on Bill 2912/1. You know the current conflict between the Deliveroo couriers and the authorities. This bill aims to frame this collaborative economy, which is important for the economy but which needs to be regulated, and to open the debate in the Economy Committee on the minimum wage, respect for social rights and the role to be played by the SPF Economy. There's an emergency in the field!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u132	Mr President, I would like to ask for urgent procedure for the legislative proposal No. 2913/1. The law on the establishment of the Data Protection Authority was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 10 January last. In order to ensure the continuity of the public service, the Data Protection Authority will follow up on the Commission for the Protection of Privacy, it is important that its bodies are set up as soon as possible. It is precisely to include some clarifications or clarifications in the law that this proposal has been submitted. For example, the Chamber can publish the necessary vacancies in good time and is given a legal basis, hence the urgency of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u133	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u134	Voters 130 Stemmen White or invalid 21 Blank or invalid Two-thirds majority 87 Two-thirds majority Mrs Joséphine (Fientje) Mr Moerman obtained 108 votes. Ms. Josephine (Fientje) Moerman obtained 108 votes. Mrs Martine Taelman has won one vote. Mrs. Martine Taelman won one vote. Mrs Joséphine (Fientje) Moerman, who obtained the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed first candidate for the vacant post of Dutch-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. Ms. Joséphine (Fientje) Moerman, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared the first candidate to fill the vacancy as a Dutch-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. We shall now proceed to the vote for the second candidate. We shall now proceed to the vote for the second candidate. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u135	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u136	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck on the inscription. (2163/6) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Catherine Fonck on the title. (2163/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 56 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Catherine Fonck to insert recital I (n). (2163/6) Vote on amendment No. 7 by Catherine Fonck to insert a recital I(n). (2163/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 53 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck to withdraw request No. 8. (2163/6) Vote on amendment No 8 by Catherine Fonck to delete application No 8. (2163/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 54 Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 91 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 46 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2163/7) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2163/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u138	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2880/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2880/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u139	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 1 February 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, February 1, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Ladies and gentlemen, while awaiting the outcome of the second secret ballot, I would like to suspend the sitting. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u140	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-25-54-plenair-ip212x.u141	Voters 129 Stemmen White or invalid 20 Blank or invalid Two-thirds majority 86 Two-thirds majority Mrs Martine Taelman has received 109 votes. Ms. Martine Taelman won 109 votes. Mrs Joséphine (Fientje) Mr Moerman obtained 0 votes. Ms. Joséphine (Fientje) Moerman obtained 0 votes. Mrs Martine Taelman, who has won the two-thirds majority of the votes, has been appointed second candidate for the vacant post of Dutch-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. Ms. Martine Taelman, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a second candidate for the vacant position of Dutch-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 1 February 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 1 February 2018 at 2.15 p.m.
