ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u2	The President (in front of the Standing Assembly): The President (for the standing Assembly): Chers collégues, good colleagues, "we shall always remember": it is in large letters in the hall of the airport of Zaventem. I think I can speak on behalf of the entire Chamber when I say yes, we shall. We shall always remember. Remember, two years ago, this funeral silence throughout the day and even those that followed, in the street of the Law, street normally noisy and not only during the hours of crowding. Remember two years ago, everyone knew it could happen. It also happened nearby, in Paris, and so it could happen here one day. But remember also the desperation, the fear and the anger when it turned out to be happening. Remember, too, the way in which our assembly was instructed by this calamity. We worked for months to be better prepared for the worst. The Dewael Committee has done a thorough job, and the committee and subsequently the plenary unanimously decided on the report and the recommendations, even though there were a lot of subjects on which there are obvious political differences. But the work continues. The Monitoring Commission shall ensure that the implementation of these recommendations is not delayed. It's worth it. I repeat, remember the atrocity of this unprecedented violence in our country. Remember our strange feeling when we realized, two years ago, that we were living in another reality, in another country. Of course, our thoughts, last but not least, go to the deadly victims. This morning their names were read at the monument in the European quarter. The list was long, too long. Let us also think of those who have been injured and who, after two long years, still suffer from these injuries. Of course, there are countless families who were also confronted with the loss of a son, a daughter, a father, a mother. And so, again – we will always remember.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u3	Mr. Chairman, the government wishes to join in your tribute to the victims of these tragic attacks. Two years ago, our country was hit with incredible, disgusting violence. These attacks have claimed the lives of many innocent victims and have caused indelible injuries to many. Today, as you have done with emotion and humility, we wish to pay tribute to them. We are thinking of all those with exemplary courage who are still fighting to regain some normality. It's a tough fight. This 22nd March, of course, we also want to pay tribute to all those who have worked tirelessly to save lives, to ease wounds. We don't forget. We are all united and gathered by the memory of these tragic moments. Ladies and gentlemen, two years after the attacks, we have not forgotten the victims. We have also not forgotten the solidarity that everyone felt. We also remain grateful to all emergency workers and security services. Two years ago, something happened that cannot be corrected. Anyone would want to go back in time and stop the clock. However, some things are irreversible. I hope that everyone will find the strength to cope with the loss and that everyone can count on all the support they need in this trial.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, at times like these, we try to express what we think and feel, but our silence is probably even more and better. Let's collect ourselves by observing a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u5	Thank you. On the occasion of the second anniversary of the attacks, the services of the Court of Justice issued a brochure highlighting numerous recommendations made by the Committee of Inquiry. This brochure will be distributed a little later. It is currently available in French and Dutch. It will soon be in English. Quite a few foreign guests explicitly ask about the decisions, in summary form, of our Committee of Inquiry. I believe it can be a very useful document, including for our partners abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u6	I have received amendments to the draft law on the failure to take into account services performed as a non-permanent staff member for a public-sector pension, to amend the individual rehabilitation of provincial and local authorities within the Consolidated Pension Fund, to adapt the rules on supplementary pensions, to amend the modalities of financing the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities and to provide additional financing for the Consolidated Pension Fund of the provincial and local authorities, Nos 2718/1 to 8. I have received amendments to the Bill on the Non-Appropriation of Services as Unappointed Personnel in a Public Sector Pension, amending the individual accountability of provincial and local governments in the Consolidated Pension Fund, adapting the regulations for supplementary pensions, amending the funding arrangements for the Consolidated Pension Fund of provincial and local governments, and providing additional funding for the Consolidated Pension Fund of provincial and local governments, Nos. 2718/1 to 8. In accordance with Article 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Social Affairs in order to discuss them. In accordance with Rule 93(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs for consideration. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I believe that the sitting will take place next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u7	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2018, I propose that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Conseil Degroote and Mr Franky Demon and Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu) amending the law of 7 December 1998 establishing an integrated police service, structured at two levels, Nos 2945/1 to 7; - the bill (Mrs Koen Metsu and Mr Franky Demon) amending the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, Nos 2970/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2018, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the bill (MM. Koenraad Degroote and Franky Demon and Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu) amending the Act of 7 December 1998 establishing an integrated police service, structured on two levels, Nos. 2945/1 to 7; - the bill (MM. Koen Metsu and Franky Demon) amending the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, Nos. 2970/1 to 3. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose that the discussion of the proposals and draft laws begin with point 5. I also propose that you start the discussion of the proposals and drafts with point 5. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u8	As I have often said in the past, I do not make accounts as an apothecary, but I must remind you that our Rules provide for a two-minute time limit to ask the question, two minutes for the answer – which can become five or six minutes in case of multiple questions – and finally a minute for the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to begin by quoting a question I raised on 16 January this year on the same dossier: 'We have opted for a transparent procedure. That is a clear choice, including with a role for and information to Parliament." Prime Minister, for three years I have been asking questions to the Minister of Defence from your government. Over and over again, the Minister of Defense replied that our F-16s were worn out in 2023 and that there were no studies on a possible extension of the lifetime of the F-16s. Ladies and gentlemen, this week we have learned that aircraft can fly six years after 2023 and that there are not one, not two, but three studies dealing with the lifetime extension of the F-16s. There are many questions, but I would like to concentrate on one question. Is it justified to spend EUR 15 billion on purchasing thirty-four F-35s? For me, that's the key question. I am really disappointed at what happened yesterday in the Committee on Defence in the course of the work. The current situation is that none of us, neither the Prime Minister, nor the Minister of Defence, nor any of the Members of Parliament, can rely on the accuracy of the information we get from the military summit. Nobody. I'm reaching out to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, I ask you to have these studies examined together with Parliament. I propose that the figures of the military summit should be checked by the Court of Auditors, which my group has been asking for for three years. Let us look together at whether there is no more advantageous option besides that to spend EUR 15 billion on aircraft that are most expensive in purchase and use, namely extending the lifetime of the F-16s. I ask the Prime Minister, but also all colleagues: please do not abdicate. What you did yesterday was make yourself unemployed for a month. I think there's work on the shelf for the Chamber. There's no way this file's gonna stay uneducated for a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, are we facing a state scandal? That's the question I'm asking you. Mr Prime Minister, replying here at the beginning of the year to a question by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you said, I quote: "We have opted for a transparent procedure". Today, nothing seems more manipulated and obscure than your procedure! Let's do it! You have in your government a Minister of Defence who is completely undressed! Reports on the extension of the F-16s circulate without his knowledge in his department – at least that's what he says – and lead him to present to the government and parliament a file of 15 billion euros clearly manipulated. There are also senior army officers who – this is an established fact today – deliberately made information retention, manipulation. Soldiers who, obviously, have forgotten that in democracy, it is not the army that decides for the government or for the parliament. We should add to this already busy picture a former Chief of Staff of the Minister of Defence who is now working for the builder Lockheed, the same builder who is competing for this market of the century and who is at the heart of the controversy. And as if that were not enough, the international image of your government, which is already affronted, is still damaged with what can be described today as a state scandal! Above all, Prime Minister, it is clear that because of the weakness of your Minister of Defence, the chaotic management of this issue and the proven manipulations of the army, your government has to decide on deceptions. You find yourself once again coming to Parliament giving explanations, making a number of statements on false grounds. Prime Minister, this is also your responsibility! The question we are asking ourselves is very simple! Are you going to accept it for a long time? Are you going to suspend the procedure for the time to be clear? Above all, are you going to unload your pseudo-Minister of Defence to deal with this issue, which, from polemic to polemic, undermines the country's image and does not honor those responsible for managing this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u11	Prime Minister, the situation is bad. We have been asking for information on the F-35 contracts for months. We have always been told that there is no problem and that we have all the information. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that Members and the people have not been given all the information about the future of our F-16s. That is very bad, because it has been said here on the right in Parliament for months that it must be the F-35. For that, we have 15 billion without a problem. However, if we have to find 1.5 billion to raise all benefits in Belgium to the poverty line, there is no money for that. However, 15 billion for the F-35 is not a problem, we will find money for that. Colleagues, we are trying today to make us believe that the minister knew nothing. Allow me to express doubts. Various members of his cabinet were clearly linked to Lockheed Martin's military-industrial lobbying. Your former deputy secretary, Simon Put, comes to you and says he's going to work for Lockheed Martin: in the pocket, in your own cabinet! Claude Van de Voorde was the chief of the air force and we have to accept here that you say you didn't know anything. Come on, Minister! As they say in our house, minister, there is no more blind than the one who doesn't want to see. You were so focused on the F-35 that you refused to take into account any information that could go against your position. From a political point of view, it is very serious because the democratic and financial stakes are immense. The question is therefore very clear, because this desire to acquire F-35s has led three manufacturers not to even offer. Even they thought the dice were punctured. Colleagues, Prime Minister, the conditions are not in place to resolve such a matter calmly and democratically. That's why the PTB is asking you to stop this F-35 purchase process and look at another solution that would cost a lot less. A sum of EUR 15 billion could mean something in the social field, but not before the war.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u12	Colleagues, Mr. Maingain has a little setback. I will come back to his question later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are commemorating today, in pain and sorrow, these 22 March attacks and we have learned that we have not been able to protect our people sufficiently. That is why many of us in this Parliament support the objective of strengthening our collective defence and security. Our pilots courageously led this battle in Syria and Iraq. We trusted, even my group and the opposition, in the government's words, when he told us that we had to replace these F-16s quickly because we needed new planes, effective weapons to carry out this struggle and to be able to better protect the population. Our trust has been betrayed. Parliament's confidence has been betrayed. Some people, senior military officers, manipulated information, misinformed parliament, damaged democracy. Even yesterday, a report was sent to us undated, telling us that one of the reasons why the F-16s had to be stopped is that they were no longer produced since 2017. That's not true! F-16 chains continue. New countries continue to acquire F-16s. We continue to be told misconceptions in Parliament, again yesterday. Prime Minister, that's enough! The entire political responsibility of the government is engaged because on such a matter, it is not just the Minister of Defence. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Budget and the whole of Kern must be able to pilot such a matter. Mr Prime Minister, I would ask you to inform Parliament fully and transparently of this matter, that finally the public can know whether, in budgetary, military and political terms, aircraft must be renewed today, because it is an enormous effort that is being asked of it. It is therefore important to know whether this enormous effort is justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to step up and give us a more comprehensive analysis of this replacement of the F-16s. Indeed, you are not the Minister of Defence. You're the Prime Minister. I am not a member of parliament who follows the defence and military procurement files. But we are facing the public market of your government's century. Today, this public market is flawed because of false information or, worse, hidden information. Prime Minister, I would like a clear response from you on three points. First, a quartet of officers organizes the detention of information. In doing so, they are undermining the foundations of our democracy. The army is at the service of the state, not the other way around. I would like you to reaffirm here this principle of the place of the army vis-à-vis the State. Secondly, Ecolo-Groen defended a bill to establish a transparent register of military purchases, contracts under way and documents attached thereto. Your majority rejected this proposal. If she had been accepted, you would have known. Your Minister of Defence, the entire government and Parliament would have been aware of these studies. Are you going to go back to your position? Thirdly, we are talking about a market of 15 billion over 40 years, at a time when austerity efforts are being demanded of citizens in terms of mobility, social policies and access to health. We are faced with a government that chooses $15 billion for Defence by failing to comply with, or putting into difficulty, public procurement procedures, while critical needs are to be met with the public. Are you going to come back to your senses, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u15	Colleagues, Mr Maingain withdrew his question because of a mobility problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u16	Mr.President, Prime Minister, on May 11, 2017, Parliament passed a military programming law that was the first in its history. This law is based on the strategic vision 2016-2030. Both documents are contained in the Government Agreement. They are to be recorded, Prime Minister, on the record of your actions and that of the Minister of Defence. In both documents, the government chose to maintain an air combat fleet with the primary mission of ensuring the safety of our airspace. It's important. The government, Prime Minister, has found it necessary to renew the aircraft for this purpose. The maintenance and renewal of a fleet of fighter aircraft are and have always been the choice advocated by our political formation, the MR. That remains our choice. I note, by the way, that other parties did not have a sense of political responsibility at the time they should have had it. This sense of political responsibility characterizes your government. Prime Minister, I say this by remaining on the bottom of the file: the priority for our group is the replacement of our fleet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u17	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u18	Mr Laaouej, do not try again to interpret what I am saying! You are not the Sigmund Freud of the assembly! You're not here to explain what people mean. I have made it clear what the MR Group thinks of this issue. We want to replace the fleet of the current F-16s. Prime Minister, the procurement process under way for the renewal of the F-16s is in its final stage. Will the two audits, internal and external, have an influence on the audit and its timing? Do you think that military personnel involved in the non-transmission of information can still have your confidence and that of the Minister of Defence in managing this matter? Will they be replaced, or permanently excluded, in the management of this file? What sanctions can these military personnel, who, at the present stage of their knowledge of this case, have received of the retention of information? This applies to any member of a federal or federal government vis-à-vis his or her minister. Finally, the studies that come to light concern only the aging of the F-16 cell, which is completely reducing in comparison to all the components of the aircraft, all of which are of importance, if the missions are to be properly completed by our air force by ensuring the safety of our pilots – it is also a detail that deserves to be recalled. On what criteria did the government use in its 2015 study to make its choice to withdraw F-16s?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what a turbulent week. Open Vld has always been in favour of a strong air force, an air force defending our airspace, but also an air force ready to move abroad to carry out combat missions. We believe that missions such as this against IS should continue to be able to be carried out as a loyal ally. Yeah, sooner or later, our F-16s need to be replaced. However, it must be possible to decide in all transparency, with all the cards on the table. We are deciding on billions of taxpayers' money for the next 30 to 40 years. This week it appeared that essential information in this file was deliberately withheld from the Minister of Defence. In this way, the image is created of an army summit which prefers to decide for itself rather than let the minister decide and even withhold information. The Minister himself speaks of manipulation. This is unacceptable in our democracy, ladies and gentlemen, and we are calling for an in-depth investigation of the report on this matter. Who knew? Who's been hiding what? Those responsible will have to bear the consequences. However, it is also about the content of the report. Is a lifetime extension still an option? At what cost? And above all, what do we buy in terms of the employability of our aircraft? Prime Minister, this dossier is very important for the future of our defence, for the credibility of our country at international level, but also for the security of our country. It is therefore crucial that the Minister has the necessary authority. What steps will you take in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, this week the Wetstraat was spooked by a leak in the army. The leaked notes show that our F-16s could fly for a few more years. It is important to know who was aware of this note and who knowingly withheld it from the Minister of Defence. Every stone has to be turned around in this case. Our democracy deserves answers. I have the following questions in this connection. Firstly, was the decision to replace the F-16 dynamometers taken into account a possible extension of the life of our current appliances? Was that an option that was on the government table in 2015? Secondly, in relation to the two leaked notes of 2017 and 2018, the Minister has already announced two audits that should clarify the situation. In addition, the Defence Committee has decided to hear those involved. However, there are people here who call for an unfounded lynching. We are not in favour of this. I would like to hear your views on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have a problem. The Secretary of Defense doesn't know what's going on in his department. So in your government, you have a minister without a wallet. That's what it's called: a minister without a department. You're making history. Indeed, the last minister without portfolio was Théo Lefèvre, in the Eyskens government in the late 1960s. Apparently, top-level military officials determine the political policy on Defense. There's only one word for that, especially a junta. It cannot be that information does not flow to the representatives of the people. That is a democratic problem. The fact that your Minister is not aware of what is happening in his department is a serious problem. Wouldn't you think of a redesign of your government? The redesign is also a competence of Minister Vandeput. What happened to that? Nothing. You now have not only a gap in your budget, but even a pit of half a billion. That is the result of the redesign. I suspect, however, that an employee did not send a note to the Minister in this respect either. Ministers used to take responsibility in such a case, but in your government there is no political responsibility. That is where political responsibility has been replaced by: it is the fault of the sossen. Prime Minister, while you are here, have you heard anything about all the civil service plans that we negotiated together in 2014? Have you heard from that? Minister Vandeput is also the minister responsible for this matter. I recently heard a trade unionist at RTBF state that the Michel Government is the first government without a Minister or State Secretary for Civil Service. That can count. Prime Minister, I have one question for you. What will you do to fill the pit in your government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the file on fighter aircraft is an important dossier for the defence industry, but also for our people. After all, this is an investment dossier of several billion euros. It is important that the decision is made in all transparency and objectivity. The citizens of this country have every right to do so. Today we see that this is not the case. A 2017 study with important information was withheld from the Minister as well as from this Parliament. The study states that the fighter planes can fly longer and take part. Colleagues, I believe that together we can say that withholding such crucial information is unacceptable in a parliamentary democracy. The key question remains: quid with the slope of the extended lifetime of the F-16s? There is also a study conducted by Defense itself in 2015. It states that a possible extension of the lifetime of the F-16s should be examined or further investigated and a feasibility study carried out. This note, which I have with me here, also contains many additional questions. For my group, it is essential that we have all the information and all the elements in this crucial dossier before we can make a sound, well-considered decision. Can the F-16 gliders fly longer? What's that gonna cost us? What about our air capacity? Prime Minister, why does the 2015 note contain outstanding questions? Why haven't these questions been answered yet? What about the study that now shows that our F-16s can fly longer? What will you do, together with your Secretary of Defense, to make the right decision, in the interests of the citizens of this country, but also of defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u23	Mr Prime Minister, in recent days there have been doubts about two very fundamental things: our compatriots wonder whether they can still trust what is on their plate and whether they can still trust the military summit. In both cases there are institutions opposite each other, in both cases there are doubts about the functioning of the institutions and in both cases you are absent, you are lost. You order an investigation, but you're mostly waiting to see what the N-VA and Bart De Wever decide. Prime Minister, at a time when people have doubts about the functioning of our institutions, someone has to turn up and take control of the cockpit. You have to do that. I have three very specific questions for you today. First of all, you can send this message straight away, and I ask you to look into it and get it sorted out, because yesterday the majority in Parliament, your majority, did something completely incomprehensible: it was decided to study the matter only after the Easter holiday. People's representatives can only do one thing today: take immediate control of the matter and start digging it out today. You must tell your majority today that she made a mistake yesterday. If people have doubts about the institutions, the institution of the institutions, the Parliament, must stick to them. This is my first question: give Parliament a very clear mandate to commit itself to this from tomorrow. Second, get your shit together with the Defense Department. A minister who is lame will not be able to do that. A minister who doesn't know his department and doesn't know what's going on, won't be able to clean up that department either. Send a very clear signal to the Defence Summit today that this does not fit in with a democracy. Finally, take the matter into your own hands, Prime Minister. Taking control of the hunting aircraft is the record of the hunting aircraft on hold places. It would be totally irresponsible, especially in these budgetary times, to decide on a billion-dollar dossier in such a way. I have three questions for your government, three questions which the Minister of Defence can no longer answer himself, but you, as Prime Minister, as a pilot of our country, at least in principle, must do so today in Parliament, which will have to stick to the dossier from tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many have rightly said that, in a democracy, Defence is at the service of the State. Democracy demands that Defence serve the security of our fellow citizens. Three years ago, the government agreement specified a commitment, an ambition to modernize our army and behave as a loyal partner in the European Union and NATO. There may be differences of opinion between us - democracy - on the budgetary priority to be given to a given theme. The question of mobilizing our capabilities for our security through Defence must, I believe, prompt us to assume our responsibilities. This is the direction that was taken when we decided to take note of a strategic vision for Defence and launch about ten investment programs. Now, I would like to set some chronological benchmarks. In November 2015, a study was made available to the government. It analysed the different scenarios relating to air capacity. Moreover, I think it was transmitted yesterday by the Minister of Defence to your assembly. At the time, the document envisaged several scenarios, including the one for the total or partial extension of F-16s. It then gave rise to a decision-making, a government direction that resulted in the formal choice in March 2017 to launch an RfGP procedure. I would like to stress that we have made a strong and clear, but not an easy or clear choice for a transparent procedure with a call for competition. , a call for competition, a call for competition. We have made no choice, as is possible under such circumstances, of negotiating with a single partner. The RfGP procedure presupposes that independent bodies analyse incoming bids - the ACCaP in this case. This also requires that Parliament be regularly informed of developments and developments in the procedure. Where are we today, given the latest information? In principle, regardless of this week's information, the ACCaP must work on the two validated offers, so that before the summer, during May or June, a decision is taken. It was the initial timing. That is the first clear point. Based on the information we have received today, there will be no decision without complete clarity on the decision-making process and also on the analysis of the different options. To be very clear, there will be no government decision until clarity is made on the decision-making processes and on the various options available, in relation to this topic. It is in this spirit - I ask everyone to take this into account - that two audits were immediately requested: an internal audit and an external audit. It is an internal audit and an external audit. After all, we need to know who took the initiative to ask for an additional study, and who knew what. Who was informed of what? Clarity on this issue is important to check whether or not there has been contamination of the procedure and to see what consequences we need to draw from it. As has been said, precautionary decisions have been taken; some military personnel have decided to step back from their duties in order to ensure a fully independent investigation. The subject is difficult. The financial stake is heavy and extremely important. Strategic issues for our security, our defence, our geopolitical vision are essential. I would also like to be clear, and I confirm, Mr van der Maelen, everything I have said about the dossier in question over the last few months. I will always argue for good cooperation with Parliament on such an important dossier. It is also in that logic that a new hearing is planned, at a committee meeting on 18 April, because we will have the audit or evaluation at our disposal by then. Then it is possible for both Parliament and the government to draw political lessons from it, on the basis of objective information. I realize that some people always want to solve everything immediately and learn lessons, but experience has taught me that it is sometimes necessary to draw political lessons with a little distance and with the necessary objective information. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I reaffirm with the necessary solemnity that democracy requires Defence to be at the service of the State. I reaffirm with the necessary solemnity that Defence is a fundamental instrument for our security. It is within this forum, in Parliament and in the government, that the democratic debate must be conducted. I also reiterate that democracy requires fair and correct information so that deliberations can take place with full knowledge of the facts. It is a requirement for maintaining the trust of citizens, for our democratic institutions and for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer, but it does not satisfy me. There has not yet been a thorough debate here in Parliament on the purchase of 34 aircraft, the most expensive in purchase and the most expensive in maintenance. That has not yet been discussed here. In its coalition agreement, your government immediately closed the door to such a debate by stating that it would choose to replace it. That was in 2014. In 2016, so two years later, there was the Defence Note of Minister Vandeput, in which, o surprise, the choice was made to replace the fighter planes. There has been no discussion in Parliament, in our country, as to whether it is strategically the best choice. By choosing the F-35 we are hanging our cart on the cart of the United States and we are not choosing a European defence. No debate has yet been held on whether a replacement budget is the most sensible decision. There was no debate on what to choose: 15 billion for new aircraft, or an amount four to five times less than the lifetime of the F-16. No debate has yet been held on whether it is wise today, in 2018, to opt for a manned fighter aircraft, while drones are in development. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, stop abdicating! This is the largest military purchase file. It's full of problems. No one can trust the numbers anymore. The 2015 figures came from the same army top, which absolutely did not want to extend its lifespan and which absolutely wanted new aircraft. Parliament must assume its responsibilities. If I were a member of the majority, I'd be ashamed in your place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u26	Prime Minister, it is very clear that you have chosen to let yourself be swallowed up by the mismanagement and mismanagement of your Minister of Defence. You're talking about transparency. Should I remind you that yesterday, in committee, your majority rejected our requests for a hearing? We are therefore, at this stage, very far from any concern for transparency. You're also talking about an audit. But it is here in Parliament that we need transparency, and now, Prime Minister! It is also, Prime Minister, the entire F-16 extension scenario that is under debate. It is not because a few military personnel manipulated the file that this possibility must be ruled out. It is not because the Minister of Defence has lost all credibility that you must personally pursue an irregular procedure. Prime Minister, for the past four years you have cut the railways by 3 billion euros, you have made social security your cash drawer to close the holes, you explain to us almost every week that there is no more money for pensions, but for a file of 15 billion euros, you are ready to hire the country for several decades on faked and manipulated bases. This is the real problem, Prime Minister! No one can understand it or admit it. Prime Minister, take your responsibilities: stop the process and discharge your Defence Minister, who is clearly neither large nor credible in managing such an important issue!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u27	Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, you have been driving for Lockheed Martin since the beginning of the procedure. You're trying to make us believe in transparency, but right from the start, and that's why three other manufacturers didn't submit a bid, everything is done to make the F-35 buy. We already knew that in parliamentary democracy, the government did not have much to say. But here we are in a situation where ministers and the government are under pressure from the military-industrial complex of the United States of America. [[It's very, very serious!]] We must reopen this debate, including what we need. Did you ask if this fleet should be renewed or not? For the PTB, the answer is no. Let us clearly see the role of these so-called planes that are supposed to serve in the defence, but which, for some 20 years, have been primarily used to attack. What did our F-16s go to Libya, where we learn that it was mainly about settling the personal affairs of a French president? They also intervened in Iraq, Syria. What is the record of all these interventions? They have nothing to do with the Defense, except for the imperialist interests of our country. Today, it's time to move on to the attack. We don't like to hear about it. These are strategic issues! For oil and money, we step in. The question that you have not taken a position on, Minister, is: are you going to stop the procedure, which is completely tainted by irregularities? Stop the acquisition of these F-35s and stop the costs!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u28	Mr Minister, when we are about to ask the Belgians to spend EUR 3.5 billion on the purchase of combat aircraft, to which 10 billion must be added to make them fly, the Belgian people must be certain that this expenditure is indispensable. You talked about a transparent procedure. She wasn't! Not only was it opaque but it was biased and manipulated. I ask you to stop the current procedure for choosing our future combat aircraft, because it is the very ones who have deceived us who are continuing to examine this procedure. It is completely unacceptable to entrust these officers who have deceived us with the choice of the future plane. After asking the Minister of Defence several times before the House and writing to the Chairman of the Defence Committee, I am indeed asking you to hold a public and in-depth debate on the possibility of buying combat aircraft and other heavy equipment, because we are about to buy new frigates, drones, anti-mine fighters, tanks, all in total opacity and the most complete silence. This week again, 360 million euros had to be spent on military equipment, without any debate. We had to postpone the commission until next week. The procedures are opaque and vary all the time. That's enough! It is time for us to take over our democratic prerogatives and to hold these debates here in Parliament and now on the appropriateness of these facilities which bind Belgium and its loyalty at the international level, as well as our security and, largely, the purse of Belgians who will have to make sacrifices in other areas, social security, mobility or education, in order to finally benefit from the security to which they are entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u29	Mr Prime Minister, transparency, in order for it to be at the service of democracy, means having access to all documents, at any time, but also that parliamentarians in charge of these matters and assessments have real access to them, in a clear and systematic way. It is not just a expressed will, a simple promise, or giving access to partial information from time to time. Your commitment is not sufficient in relation to this objective and the desire for transparency. On the other hand, documents show that the replacement of the F-16s is not justified and that, as a result, the decision taken loses its legitimacy. Nevertheless, you do not decide to reconsider your choice, to review your budget choices for the benefit of social policies, health policies, people with disabilities, mobility and public services. It's time to choose and orient your choices differently. Prime Minister, all of this shows that the security needs of our citizens are not being properly addressed. We spent hours in the Health and Economy Committee: food safety is not guaranteed. There is a lack of sufficiently effective coordination between your various ministers concerned, between ministers, ministries, administrations and agencies. In doing so, we face the same organizational and governance challenges between the Minister of Defence, his department and senior officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, I cannot help but note that either Mr Hedebouw has not understood anything on the file, or he is blinded by the denunciation of imperialism. But to say that the government is subdued in Lockheed, while it is precisely documents of this company that have been revealed, this week, etc. It's an exaggeration. Mr Hedebouw, I assume that you have not fully read the minutes of sittings in which you never take part, by the way. Prime Minister, I thank you, first of all, for answering my question about the influence of this week's revelations. "The government," you said, "will not make a decision until there is full clarity about the risk of contamination of the process." Secondly, I would like to thank you for reminding you of a truth which may seem self-evident, but which, in the present circumstances, should be recalled, namely that Defence is at the service of democracy. Thirdly, you have said that you want full information from Parliament, after having received the results of the two audits (internal audit and external audit) under consideration. This is an important part of your answer. Finally, for our group, the need to renew our air fleet with high quality and high safety aircraft remains a major objective of this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u31	Prime Minister, I have just said that these F-16s need to be replaced. Our party also supports that replacement program. It reassures us if you say here that no decision will be taken until the decision-making procedures have been clarified. We are therefore waiting for internal and external audits. Parliament must also wait for these results to reach and question the military summit in question in committee on 18 April. We are talking about manipulation here today. I'm asking if there's an investigation going on. If such heavy words are used, then action must also be taken. Prime Minister, we are counting on this dossier not to crash and on the Minister to get the entire Defence apparatus back in calmer air layers so that we can safely land the replacement file on the government table.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u32	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we already knew in 2015 that the F-16 could fly a few years longer. That option was examined. However, making these devices operationally relevant would require an investment of EUR 2.2 billion. That's what it takes to keep those planes in the air for a few years longer. After that, we'd still have to replace those planes. It would therefore mean an additional cost of EUR 2.2 billion. That report was passed on to the members of the committee yesterday. The government has not only based itself on a report from the Defence Staff. NATO standards have also been taken into account and what other countries are doing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the last country to replace its F-16s. Prime Minister, we certainly want to continue with the reconstruction of our army and with the file on the replacement. We've been saving on Defense for far too long, we're already the rise of NATO. If we stop this regular purchasing process, we will really lose all our credibility. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u33	In fact, I have never seen some of the speakers in the Committee on Defence. We have held numerous debates and hearings on the replacement of our fighter planes, on the resolution on the future of defence, on the programme law and on the specifications, and also on the special Committee on Army Purchases. Colleagues, I would like to ask for a little more serenity, here real chaos is created, a real hetze. We also want the truth, but in a correct way, after the internal and external audit. I don't know any court that condemns people on the basis of anonymous e-mails. This is where people are publicly killed and dragged through the mud, without a chance of defense or investigation. Mr President, I must say that I find it a disgrace that on the day of the commemoration of the attacks the PTB says that we should not invest in our fight against IS. I find that a disgrace. [[Rumor]] Finally, our Minister will certainly blow away all the fog with that audit and will create complete clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is good that there has been a whistleblower in this case. At least that woman or man helped democracy. If the F-16 can be kept in service for longer, we should at least consider that option. If this option is not considered, it will be at the expense of the defence staff and at the expense of all the citizens you have requested. One can ask people to make efforts, one can ask them to do so, but then one has to deal with public money carefully, and that is clearly not happening here. A minister who does not know what is happening in his department is a democratic problem. That's not the opposition's fault. That's not the fault of the sossen. That has nothing to do with Agusta. This simply has to do with a lack of authority on the part of the Minister, because the military summit does not take him seriously. Should this man continue to accompany the military purchase of the century? Is he going to spend the 15 billion? Is he gonna do that? Mr Prime Minister, if you think about a redesign of your government, you will have achieved one redesign in this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. Firstly, together with you, we look forward to the results of the audit on who withheld information and why. On the basis of this information, we can hold the debate here in Parliament. I urge the government to come to Parliament as soon as possible. Secondly, Prime Minister, the element that the F-16s can fly longer is, of course, an important element. I hope it will be included in the final decision the government will take. That is why the government must study in depth all the studies that have been carried out on this subject. Mr Prime Minister, for my group it is crucial that all information on the dossier is examined and analysed and that we can take a final decision on that basis. I am pleased that you have just confirmed, on behalf of the government, that there will be no decision on the dossier for the time being. In conclusion, Prime Minister, I would like to say that the key words in the dossier in question are transparency and objectivity. Otherwise, the kite won't go on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, I asked you in my question to show leadership and to ensure clarity. I very much regret that you are completely rejecting that outstretched hand. You do wow about our democracy. You are, however, totally unbelievable in this respect because you make it impossible for Parliament to work on this matter for a month. A crisis like the current crisis does not tolerate uncertainty. A crisis like the current crisis is longing for clarity and leadership. You report that the government will not decide too hastily. You're refusing our request to suspend the decision. You don't want to go too fast. However, the index jump, the savings made by SNCB and the extension of Objective 1 and Objective 2 were decisions that could be taken on one-two-three. I have one final point. Mr De Roover still does not understand. Mrs Grosemans is concerned about credibility. Mrs Grosemans, Mr Vandeput has already lost all credibility. He's already lost all credibility to run a billion-dollar file like this. I can only conclude that today the N-VA is a party that wants to shop hasty and rashly with taxpayers' money. The most important question, Mr De Roover, is not who leaked. The most important question is why Steven Vandeput didn't know about it. Why didn't he ask for those studies himself? It irritates the N-VA that we continue to ask these questions. However, our group will continue to do so. In this way, taxpayers' money of all 11 million Belgians will not be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u37	Minister, there is another debate through the media, this time on the return of the wives of IS fighters. Apparently, a lot of them are still trapped in camps in Syria and Iraq. Those sympathetic ladies seem to have come to their senses. With one of them, Mrs Haniefa al-Belgiki, I have a very personal connection. Three years ago, she announced on Facebook that she hoped that "there would be a Mohammed B. who would deal with this pig, as our brother handled with the boar van Gogh." That was about my person, but that was completely aside. You will understand, however, that the problem concerns me literally and figuratively. Not only the ladies concerned have come to their senses and want to come back, but also their children, almost 140, who are under 18 years of age. The majority is even younger than ten years. The policy rule says that they can come back to our country if they are younger than ten years old. I don't understand that very well. I call for the most humane solution, namely to leave the children with their mothers. That seems to me to be a much better solution for the future of these children and, above all, for our future, because that is what we should be most interested in. We do not forget that these children were also raised in the practices of IS. I remember children barely five to six years old who learned how to decapitate people by cutting off their teddy bear's head. Those videos are circulating on the Internet. I'm sure you've heard of it. It is very doubtful whether we are doing them and ourselves a service by reintegrating them in any way into our society in Europe. Mr Minister, my question is obvious. What will you do in response to the plea of those so-called converted mothers and women of IS fighters? What will happen to their children? What is the state of affairs and what does the future bring?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u38	Mr Dewinter, let me say first of all that the messages of the ladies concerned do not impress us very much. They are now trying to wallow in a victim role, but as far as we are concerned, they have deliberately chosen to go there and choose the side of a terrible organization. That organization has caused a lot of misery all over the world. All this does not relieve them of their guilt and their conscious collaboration. That is what they will be charged with forever. The government will not actively track down Belgians who want to return to Belgium, either in Syria or Iraq. When people of Belgian nationality present themselves at a Belgian embassy, international law applies. We will look at return assistance on a case-by-case basis, based on safety analyses. Not every case is the same. As far as minors are concerned, the government's policy is that we will also consider return assistance for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u39	You will understand, Minister, that I can only appreciate this arrangement moderately, because it offers too much uncertainty. Moreover, it will give rise to many attempts by wives, mothers, minors of 10 years or less to try to enter our country via the embassies. Through this unclear arrangement, they will try to're-integrate' again into our society, with all the risks involved. Whoever lived there, in those circumstances, with Islamic State, Al Qaeda or others, was born and raised, lost to our European society, no matter how old they may be. I do not think we should allow any ambiguity, especially on the second anniversary of the attacks in Brussels. We do not forget that many women and children who have been victims of the attacks in Europe would also like to return to the situation before the attacks. Those people didn't get that chance, and they never will. Let us be as hard on all those who have collaborated with IS, whether they are child, woman or whatever.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u40	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for a long time there have been no words to describe the suffering of the Syrian people, either in eastern Ghouta or in Afrin. Especially in Afrin, this invasion of Syria by Turkey - because it is indeed an invasion! - is totally unwarranted. I told you about it a couple of weeks ago. At no time did the Syrian Kurds threaten Turkey's security. By doing so, Turkey is, of course, flouting international law, but also the North Atlantic Treaty and the Charter of the United Nations. According to consistent evidence, war crimes are committed in Afrin. Along with Turkish troops are Daesh soldiers who have been enlisted as substitutes for the Turkish army. Concordant information comes to us in this regard. Minister of Foreign Affairs, how long are we going to look at this without doing anything? How long are we going to let Turkey and what we must consider as ethnic cleansing in northern Syria? How far will Turkey be able to carry out its offensive without reaction from the European Union and NATO? Will she be able to carry out her offensive beyond the Euphrates without us moving? Will we continue to let her commit war crimes? Will we continue to tolerate this ethnic cleansing? Are we going to continue selling him weapons? Will we continue to conduct negotiations with Turkey on its inclusion in the EU? Will we continue to regard it as a partner in NATO? Is it still a partner in NATO when it risks meeting, at some point, with American troops, but also with the Belgian special forces present there? Is it still a partner when it flouts NATO's fundamental values at this point? Let me remind you briefly: "The States parties to the Treaty are determined to safeguard their common heritage, based on democracy, individual freedoms, the rule of law." Is that what Turkey is doing right now in Syria?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u41	Mr Dallemagne, we have already had several debates in plenary and in committee on this subject, in which I affirmed how the activity of Turkish forces in northern Syria was unacceptable, as in eastern Ghouta with Syrian forces. Acts of barbarism are committed on the spot. What I can't accept is that nothing is done. We have had the opportunity to intervene on many occasions, first directly for the Belgians to the Turkish authorities. I did so again in Sofia during meetings with our Turkish colleagues in the context of the meetings of the European Union's foreign ministers. We have also had the opportunity to do so within the North Atlantic Council and, of course, within the European Union. So far, we have obtained a United Nations Security Council resolution, resolution 2401, which calls for a ceasefire and humanitarian access. It is true that this resolution allows for exceptions which, in my view, are misinterpreted by Turkey. According to this resolution, a number of terrorist groups can continue to be hit on the spot. It is clear that Turkey is abusing this interpretation of the resolution. We are trying to ensure that, through the Atlantic Alliance, as well as through the European Union, we can put pressure on Turkey. I do not hide from you that the analysis is indeed very pessimistic about military evolution on the ground. Whether in eastern Ghouta or in northern Syria, and probably tomorrow also in Idlib. Earlier, a debate will take place at the European Council on this subject and we will try to develop a new approach by the European Union to the Turkish authorities. On 26 March, the President of the Council and the President of the Commission, Mr Tusk and Mr Juncker, will meet in Varna with President Erdogan. What we are calling for is an immediate ceasefire, full humanitarian access on site and respect for international humanitarian law. Belgium will not get it alone, it is trying to do everything within the European Union and NATO to go in this direction. We are also trying to do so in the United Nations Security Council, but from outside. We hope that, as of next year, we will also be able to do so by being a non-permanent member of the Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u42	Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, you are obviously not the only one responsible among the diplomats and foreign ministers of the European Union. But it must be admitted that Turkey laughs at the European Union's efforts because they are not up to the gravity of the situation on the ground. What we are doing today does not allow us to stop the ongoing savagery in Syria, especially in the north. I ask you to question Turkey's entry into the European Union; to stop the negotiations, clearly, firmly and officially; to ask the European Union for an embargo on the sale of arms. In 2016, we still sold at least 21 million euros of weapons to Turkey. Unfortunately, Turkey's place in an alliance must also be called into question. What further meaning does such a partner, Turkey, which weakens us so much, endangers us, violates international law, crushes civilians, probably commits war crimes? Are we not seriously weakening the values that founded the North Atlantic Treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u43	Mr President, Minister, for decades the problems of internment have been severely criticised, often justified. Previous efforts to reverse the tide, already in 2007 and 2014, have unfortunately not been able to come to fruition. That is why this government has taken immediate action and taken a number of initiatives which have now been taken. In this context, I am thinking of the two forensic psychiatric centres opened in Ghent and Antwerp. Finally, there are also facilities for long-stay patients and for interned women. The potpourri III was also a major legislative step in the right direction. It addresses pain points such as inhuman care and lack of care for interned people. The objective was to better establish the accountability by focusing on the quality of the psychiatric research, but also by setting up a clinical observation centre. These two important cases were the subject of criticism in the press this week. Minister, the first point of criticism is the lack of a clinical observation centre. We agree that there is indeed a need for such a centre in order to be able to make a proper assessment of the accountability. The importance of this is shared by us. The coalition agreement is also clear and provides for an observation and diagnosis in a specialised centre. You mentioned earlier that this will actually happen in Haren in 2020. A second point of criticism is the poor quality of the psychiatric reports of the experts, which would not be sufficiently substantiated. This would be due to the lack of appropriate training and to the limited resources that go to forensic psychiatry. Mr President, why have these points not been implemented, even though they have been included in potpourri III? How will you implement it as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u44	Mr President, Mrs Uyttersprot, my recent visit to Strasbourg and my discussions with the Committee on Torture have shown that Strasbourg is more satisfied with our policy on this matter than before. So we are moving forward, but not fast enough, of course. As you said, two centres were opened, in Antwerp and in Ghent. In collaboration with colleague De Block, three longstays were also opened and there will be more. In addition, masterplan III provides for an internment centre in Aalst, one in Paifve and one in Waver. These, too, are in the process of rapid preparation. As far as your question on the POC is concerned, it is true that in Haren we are in the final stage of the award procedure. We hope, therefore, that construction can be started during this legislative period and that the POC will be there in a moment. You ask why it takes so long to take the pricing decisions and implement the internment law. Everything is relative, Mrs Uyttersprot. Usually people don't think it's gonna take long enough these days. There are reasons why it takes so long, namely consultation and a lot of work. By summer there will be a KB with the implementation of Articles 5, § 3 and 5, § 5 of the Internment Act. The first will provide a new model of psychiatric expert report, which will guide the training our universities and professional associations are required to provide. Paragraph 5 deals with the new charging that will be made for forensic psychiatric research in the context of internment. Summer should be able to provide the long-awaited solution in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u45	Minister, as has been said, there has been a great catching-up movement to improve the fate of interned people, and there are still a number of issues ahead, such as the POC, the FPC in Aalst and other places that will respond to this. However, we must not ignore the criticism of forensic psychiatry and its training, but in the summer there will seem to be a solution, which is good news. We must indeed ensure that legal psychiatrists are adequately and properly trained and that they are properly and effectively paid, because that is where the shoe is often wringing. We must ensure that we are able to keep those people, which will improve quality. The quality of the reports is indeed essential, because the assessment of accountability makes a world of difference for the person concerned, of course, because it is just that assessment that decides whether or not someone is interned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u46	Madam Minister, at the beginning of this week the figures of the number of doctors who will not respect the agreed tariffs for consultations in the coming years were published and will therefore charge patients more, often much more. Unfortunately, with the specialists, that's one in five already. In some specializations, people in their own environment can no longer even find anyone who adheres to the rates. Half the women end up with a gynecologist who charges what he wants. That's as bad as last year, Madam Secretary. So, like last year, I am calling for savings to be stopped and to work together with the doctors on this problem. This wasn't funny news, but it could be worse. An open letter came with an appeal from physicists to their colleagues to stop following tariffs. Last year, the number of physicists that didn't follow the rates doubled. Now it may get even more, because a survey shows that more than 70% would be inclined to follow that call and would therefore start charging what one wants. Colleagues, who's the big victim here? Exactly. The patient. No security of care for those who have it a little harder. Madam Secretary, you pretended to fall out of the sky, but we have warned you about this several times. We have said several times that this would happen. This is the direct result of your savings. Damn, I often get the impression you're organizing the free market. Madam Secretary, have you already requested interim figures from the RIZIV? Should we fear a massive exit? You've been pissed off at the beginning of the week. You have indicated that you would personally register the kinesis if necessary. Did you do that and when? If there is a massive retirement, what will be your actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u47	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u48	I don't know anything about that, so I'm assuming it's not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u49	Mr President, a written question had been added from the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u50	Written?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u51	No, an oral question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u52	I have not been informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u53	We were told that an oral question had been added. Mrs. Jiroflée, I'd like to dot the i's and give you a scoop. We have just received the figures. After all, the kinesis were allowed to deconvent until midnight. What matters is that 80% of the kinesis remain conventionary. That is far from the 70% refusals you are talking about. Eight out of ten kinesis of the more than 23 000 kinesis continue to congregate. With them, the patient, as before, will no longer have to pay. This is in the interests of the patient, despite Facebook actions and all kinds of actions and a very deloyal appeal from the association Axxon, who had made an agreement with the RIZIV. We have to do it. [[.]] They conclude an agreement, they turn around and they say that they will not keep to it. Despite the difficult budgetary context, and having first ensured that the patient would not have to pay more brake money, so after considering the patient's interests, we have taken steps towards better compensation for the kinesis. Let's look at the budget. You are always talking about savings, but the kinesis' budget has increased more than the global budget of medical care in recent years. For 2017, there was an increase of 3.17 %, i.e. more than twice the growth standard of 1.5 %. For the new convention 2018-2019, this meant an increase of 6,15 % in the budget. So the government gives 19 million more to the physicists to get the patients well cared for. There are still many positive measures. I invite you to read them. There is the quality premium of EUR 2 000 and there is the increase in fees for, among other things, the first five current treatments to EUR 24. In short, Mrs Jiroflée, this policy, and certainly I myself, does not require anyone to stand in the cold, certainly not the patients, but also the kinesis. They understood that, because 80% of them have been in agreement and I thank them for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u54	Mr President, Minister, these figures are indeed not as bad as the questioning suggested. I am particularly pleased with that, along with you. However, I note that, as with the doctors, they remain the same as last year. There's no progress. I continue to regret that. You are talking about an increase in the budget, but apparently that does not come across to the kinesis when I see the constant calls. I imagine this is not a pleasant message for you. Madam Minister, when I look at the deconventions, the doctors and the kinesis, which are as bad as last year, I think people are becoming particularly insecure. People are afraid to have to go to a doctor or physicist. We are really heading towards a society with no security of care. And that security of care, Madam Minister, must be one of the pillars of a civilised society for us as socialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the Belgian-Mexico section, I would like to welcome the colegas Diputados de México, who are here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the colleagues from the Mexican Parliament. I got to meet them earlier this week. Welcome in the House of Parliament!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u57	I do not know if it will please the delegation, but I would like to talk to the Minister about football. Madam Secretary, not all footballers are big-time earners, far from it. Some are fortunate, and we grant them this, that they receive very high and sometimes exuberant wages. The question of the politician must then be whether they also contribute sufficiently to social security. If you calculate this, you will find that they sometimes contribute less than 1% of the wage to social security, whereas for an employee it is sometimes almost 40%. Madam Minister, of course we encourage all kinds of sectors and of course we want an attractive competition and it is a fact that good players are needed for this. If the contribution from 1 % to for example 10 % is raised, we will not suddenly turn a good player into a bad player. The average annual wage in first class is 337 000 euros. The law, which is long before us, stipulates that social contributions are payable on a fictitious salary of EUR 2 200 per month. That is, of course, very far from reality and basically means that the taxpayer actually sponsors more than EUR 120 000 per player. Combined with the fact that a pension can be taken up from the age of thirty-five and the benefits for clubs, that might be too much of the good. Madam Secretary, I ask the government to look into the matter. Also the football association would make a study on the payback effects and football and economics. I believe that a small but slightly larger contribution to social security is more than being discussed here today. Surely that can't turn the Belgian football world upside down? Madam Secretary, can we continue to defend the existing regime? Or is there going to be a design? Are there gonna be any extra studies? Can we actually continue to allow large-scale workers to contribute hardly anything to social security? That is not explained to the cashier of the supermarket.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u58	It is true that professional footballers pay less social security contributions than many workers. This is because the contributions are calculated on a flat-rate amount, which is often lower than what they earn. It is a 1977 arrangement, created by the late Jean-Luc Dehaene. It is true that we are wondering whether this arrangement can be justified today. It's the clubs that have to pay for social security. It is a good thing that a debate is taking place on this subject. However, we must ensure that we do not throw the child away with the bath water. Firstly, the regulation does not apply only to footballers, although that is thought to be the case. The scheme is there for all professional athletes, which is very important. After all, in athletics for example, the reduced contributions are not luxurious. For those athletes, the scheme is a way to start their sports career. Soccer players are very good and even more than well paid. You shouldn't ask me why that is, because I don't know anything about football. In any case, other professional athletes deserve much less than is thought. We have to watch what we do and investigate everything. After all, our country is supposed to have athletes who can benefit from social protection thanks to their professional athlete status. I don't know anything about football, but supporters tell me that they see good footballers playing better games. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u59	Mr President, Mr Calvo seems to know everything about football. The RSZ discount was introduced in 1977, because it was considered that it is indeed different times now that this measure could help our country to attract young players from the youth categories that flow to the top sport. So I am prepared to enter into the debate, albeit not just about the football players but also about the other sportsmen. There are several possibilities. The flat-rate amount may be increased or the scheme may be abolished.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u60	Madam Secretary, you are already giving concrete thought. I welcome the start of the debate. You say that a fair contribution would involve the risk of the child being thrown away with the bath water. You should say that to a low-wage worker who is taxed 50% and who pays 40% of social security contributions. The whole family would drown. Perhaps next weekend the government will look at how savings can be made, and some of them already sounded like social security. Well, it is no longer explained at all that those who are lucky enough to earn a lot do not have to contribute, while everyone else is asked for a rather large contribution. Madam Minister, I am very pleased that you are addressing the debate with open eyes. I hope that there will soon be a legislative change and that a fair contribution will be imposed, not on a fictional wage based on 1% of real income, but on an amount that is closer to reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u61	Minister, this week, European Commissioner Pierre Moscovici presented the European Commission's proposals to create a new tax for digital companies. The aim is to ensure fairer taxation for all businesses in the European Union. There is no need to recall here that these companies, whether they are active in the social media sector, collaborative platforms or online content providers, are booming. Today, it is estimated that nine of the twenty largest companies in the world are digital, and that they benefit from tax regulations that are currently in force, from taxation that is more advantageous than those of the traditional economy. According to the European Commission, this would pose a risk to Member States' public revenues. They therefore propose, in order to remedy this, to introduce a tax of 3 per cent on income from the sale of advertising and data. Moreover, according to the Commission, tax revenues have been estimated at around EUR 5 billion per year for the Member States. We must also recall here the particular context in which these proposals are based, since the European Union's multiannual budget proposal will be presented by the Commission within a month. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions. How do you view the European Commission's proposals? According to your information, what is at this stage the state of European discussions and the position of our country? Finally, has an agenda already been communicated at this stage for the completion of this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u62	Mr Calomne, indeed, we are dealing here with an important issue, namely the fair contribution of the major digital players, the GAFAs (Google, Facebook, Amazon, Apple and others, as you said). Belgium was and still is in favour of a truly international solution. This means preferably at the OECD level, but it must be noted that at this level an agreement is not currently possible. The Commission has just formulated a twofold solution: a short-term solution with a long-term proposal. In the short term, the Commission wants to establish a digital tax services, a kind of VAT, and, in the long term, these are rules to be established in order to determine a well-defined taxable basis. Belgium can recognise itself in the principles put forward by the Commission, namely that a solution at 28 level is preferable to 28 solutions at national level, by definition distinct. Large digital companies, like all companies, must make a fair contribution. I take the opportunity to refer here to another fact, which in itself has nothing to do with taxation, namely the problem of the quasi-monopoly of these companies, which must also be examined closely. The Commission proposal has just been formulated. The next step is to analyse this proposal in a thorough and technical way. This will take place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for the answers you have just given us. I am pleased to hear that our country's will is to achieve a fairer tax for all companies in the 28 Member States, whether they come from the new technologies sector or from the more traditional industry. It is also clear that this new taxation will have to be in strict compliance with European rules. Belgium, and in particular Brussels, have an important place in the digital sector on the international stage. Care must be taken to strike a balance between this just taxation, to which we are attached, and the desire not to stifle innovation and the spirit of undertaking economic actors who wish to develop. Our group will not fail to follow the development of this debate and the discussions that will take place in the European fora. We have no doubt about Belgium's position of balance and consensus in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u64	Mr President, Minister, you have decided to link two important issues: the compensation of ARCO's co-operators and the sale of Belfius. For you, the price to be paid to compensate the injured co-operators is therefore to separate from Belfius. As you know, my group deplores this strategy. On January 11, I told you again. For us, selling a bank with good results is a bad budget operation. Moreover, to have a public bank, Belfius, is to impose strong ethical rules. It is to support the real economy. It also means having a bank at the service of citizens, municipalities and businesses. But that's not the ideological choice you've made! Today, we learn a few things in the press. First of all, that 400 million euros would be blocked at Belfius for the ARCO deal. Then, that ARCO sold its shares in Auxipar. Finally, that the divestitures of assets allowed ARCO liquidators to recover more than 800 million euros, or 230 million more than expected. Minister, it is therefore necessary to re-examine the matter. When are you going to compensate ARCO's co-operators? What solutions do you envisage to compensate the municipalities, which are also damaged in this case? You mentioned a figure of 49% of shares publicly traded at the Belfius level for this year. Do you confirm that it is this year and 49%? Finally, the European Commissioner for Competition told us a few weeks ago that she had not been contacted on this subject. Do you confirm that you will take the steps only now?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the dossier on the table, the sale of Belfius and the debate we are having today are the result of a forced takeover of Dexia, which was to avoid the collapse of the entire banking sector and our entire economy. We saved that bank twice with taxpayers' money. Ten years after the first rescue and several billion more, the question is what we will do with that bank. It was already clearly stated in the government's declaration that they wanted to go to the stock market. In the multiannual budget, dividends were registered until 2017. When I referred to that and asked about the timing of the IPO, you replied that it was merely a coincidence that the dividends were registered until then. With the Summer Accord, together with CD&V, you swore an expensive oath to go to the stock market with the bank and thus partially privatise the bank, in combination with a solution for ARCO. The deadline for this IPO, or for coming out with that communication, was last week. Last week, together with Johan Klaps, I tabled a question in committee because there was still no news and because my group has been trying for several years to get a debate on the future of our public bank Belfius and on whether sales are socially the best option. In response, we received: "I will not answer any questions." That is quite unseen in a Parliament. Mr Johan Klaps of your party has, of course, simply cashed in. You received a question with several supplementary questions to which you, as a minister, could have given a perfect answer here and there, but you chose to remain silent. So on 14 March we did not receive an answer. On 18 March, Minister Jambon apparently found it worthwhile to speak to the press and give an answer that you did not want to give in committee: "We will take Belfius to the market. The IPO must be established." That is more than what you have said to Parliament. It is also about someone who should not answer directly about the dossier, because that file is actually with the Prime Minister, through you. Minister, Mr Jambon seems to be able to communicate easily, but where are we now? What's the status? Are you going to the stock market? If so, when? Will you also go public without a solution for ARCO? That's the expensive oath you swore.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u66	Mr President, Mr Daerden, Mrs Almaci, first of all, the government agreement provides for the optimal and judicious valuation of participations in the financial sector. At the request of the government, in the spring of 2016, I requested a pre-study on Belfius' participation. The analysis was carried out taking into account all stakeholders and, first of all, the taxpayer, the timing and the most appropriate method for partial valuation and the best possible preparation of the transaction. This pre-study concluded that the file is mature for a partial stock exchange of Belfius after which the authorities will remain majority shareholders. On this basis, last summer, on my proposal, the government decided to partially privatise Belfius, up to a maximum of 49% of its capital, in the form of an IPO to be prepared by Belfius' management with the support of Belfius' advisers and, of course, with the support of the government. This preparation has so far been smooth and, technically speaking, the planned partial admission to the stock exchange before the summer recess is certainly still possible. During this preparatory process, for quite obvious reasons, I will not make any statements regarding the exact timing, the valuation and the percentage of the participation that may be brought to the market. As far as the link with ARCO is concerned, that dossier is now being discussed on the government table and it is being discussed further. It would be completely irresponsible to give more details at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u67	Minister, I can hear you. Nothing new since my previous question. It's been four years since you let ARCO's co-operators go down, you sell and sell the deal to your CD&V partner, you turn around the pot, without a solution for the other shareholders who have been victims of Dexia's defeat. At the risk of weakening our public bank. That's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u68	Mr President, Minister, the sale of Belfius at the moment is stupid and shortsighted. I would remind you of your own statement on 14 November 2013, when you said about the sale of BNP Paribas Fortis that it was the government's gratuitous day politics, which would in no way ensure that the sale of crown jewels would structurally reduce our public debt. Well, that's right. And it's exactly the same case with Belfius. That's how fast the tide can turn, Minister. Changing seats and the N-VA that is very clear about the technicality around Belfius, but meanwhile is very unclear about that other file. Both files deserve better. It is very stupid and short-sighted when a government bank is set up in Scotland to invest in a country that is crying out for investment, like ours, to sell out the only government bank. So I repeat what you said at the time: gratuitous day politics. You will not be able to save the budget or public debt in a structural way. We finally need that debate, but you do not want it. It is as the N-VA does in every file and it is as with the powerlessness of the Prime Minister, who has just been re-emphasized: bending or bursting. It is clear in which file you will bend who and how you will go to the market with Belfius.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u69	Maybe we can be friends on Facebook, Kristof? Colleagues, I have an important question about Facebook. The data of fifty million Facebook users were simply thrown too gibberish through a data breach. I think this is important. Our privacy and our fundamental freedoms are at stake here, Mr Calvo, and that is why I am asking this question. Many responded with compassion when Open Vld advanced a Secretary of State for Privacy in 2014. Today we see why it is important to have someone who stands up for our privacy. What is privacy? We often don't know that. We post a lot on Facebook and Instagram. We share photos with each other. In fact, we give ourselves as a product to those social media companies in exchange for their free services. Our data is used by all these companies to resell the large GAFAs of this world. I believe that the privacy rules in Europe are very strict, Mr Secretary of State. We can't understand what happened. It remains to be seen whether European and Belgian profiles have been hacked and what has happened to them. Mr Secretary of State, this fundamental freedom is extremely important to us. Our privacy must be guaranteed. What will you do about this on the Belgian and international stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u70	Mr President, Mrs Lijnen, thank you for this question. Indeed, it is scandalous how 50 million profiles came out and what happened afterwards. Facebook's reaction over the past few days has been below all levels: one tries to shift the blame. The way Facebook reacted is absolutely insufficient. The problem lies with the company itself, there and with others who simply collect data, without explicit consent, without clear purpose, and who simply sell the data further. First of all, there is a need for full transparency about how these companies collect data, what happens with it and how these companies ended up with a company like Cambridge Analytica. That is why action is being taken at European level. We have asked the Belgian Privacy Commission to take action together at European level at the Article 29 Working Party. Meanwhile, its leadership lies with the ICO, which started an investigation. The Irish Data Protection Authority has also started an investigation. The results of this study will be examined for the first time on 10 and 11 April. At the same time, I have written a letter to Commissioner Jourova, who has already indicated that all digital players should be covered by consumer legislation, which means that consumers are much better protected. It just can't be that Facebook is totally non-transparent about the algorithm it uses. I compare it with Coca-Cola: the recipe is secret, but that does not remove the company from food safety controls and the like. Facebook will also have to be much more transparent. There lies the link with the GDPR, the new European privacy legislation. Once again, there are clear rules of the game that give the consumer more control over his or her own data. Social media itself are very positive, because they allow us to have contact with friends and family, to exchange things, but the debate is only just starting. For weeks and months it is clear that the big players do not handle our data carefully. It is absolutely clear that more transparency is needed and that companies who know us so intimately, but who at the same time develop algorithms to guide our behaviour, absolutely must be subject to more democratic control. We cannot allow Zuckerberg to act as a thought police: not in Europe, not in America, nowhere in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u71	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State. Mr Zuckerberg's apologies are indeed just too little. We support you on the barricade for our privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u72	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u73	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: David Clarinval, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Stefaan Vercamer, Jan Spooren.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u74	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Ms Lanjri, Mr Raskin, Mr Deseyn, Mr Piedboeuf et M. Flahaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u75	Mr President, we are referring to our written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u76	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u77	Mr President, will Minister Peeters be present in the discussion of the bill on economic growth and social cohesion? That is why we have put the point forward. I think it is important for the Minister to be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u78	I understand the Minister has informed me that he can and will come if you ask for it. I understand he'll be here in five minutes. I'm suspending the meeting until the Minister arrives. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u79	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u80	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with the exception of the €6,000 measure which institutionalises black work, this bill incorporates the measures contained in the controversial bill on economic recovery and social cohesion. First of all, I would like to mention the contempt shown by the parties of the majority for social consultation. In this case, as in many others, the government has conducted a pseudo-conciliation. From the outset, employers' representatives knew that the government would support their line, they did not make any effort to reach an agreement. Overstepping consultation has become the rule with this government and this majority. We regret it all the more because the title of your proposal refers to social cohesion. Beyond this first fundamental criticism, I will return to three themes addressed in this bill. First, the reduction of the notice period. We are opposed to reducing the notice period during the first six months of occupation. During this period, the government decided to reduce the protection of workers. At a time when massive redundancies are widespread in our country, facilitating redundancies does not seem to be a desirable step. In fact, you are reintroducing the trial period de facto without the approval of the social partners. However, the abolition had been the subject of a comprehensive agreement following difficult negotiations. You sweep an important compromise from a back of your hand through a back door and without measuring its impact on the workers. That's unfortunate. Secondly, temporary work. Your proposal for a law provides for the abolition of existing sectoral prohibitions, provided for in collective agreements, on the use of temporary workers in certain sectors of activity. You continue to generalize temporary work in the labour market. More precarious, more precarious, this is the leitmotif of this government! By preventing all collective agreements which provide for a general ban on the occupation of temporary workers, the government once again interferes with social consultation and issues a real motion of distrust towards the social partners. The third theme I will address is the first jobs for young people. This theme is fundamental to our group. In this text, it is planned to reduce the wages of young people under 21 years of age without experience. The previous government had decided to put an end to the discrimination that existed on the basis of the age of the young person. This government has restored it. You decide to reduce the wages of young people below the minimum wage, making it appear that this would help to combat youth unemployment. I would like to point out here that, thanks mainly to regional policy, youth unemployment is declining. For example, in Brussels, youth unemployment has been decreasing for nearly 60 consecutive months. So we don't need your measure that pre-categorizes and discriminates against young people. Even if you do not stop saying "no panic, the drop in the net wage will be offset by a lump sum supplement paid by the employer, who will be able to recover it by means of a tax measure," let me be worried. First, by reducing the remuneration of young people, you will also reduce their holiday money and this will not be compensated. With your measure, you also reduce the social rights of young people who are calculated on gross wages and not on the net. You are creating a new form of discrimination between workers. In this regard, I refer you to the enlightening opinion of the Council of State. Secondly, how can we be sure that the lump sum supplement you promise will actually compensate for the loss of the young person's salary? In the explanatory memorandum, you acknowledge that there may be a difference. In fact, you indicate that you want to match the supplement as much as possible to the loss of salary, but you refuse to provide us with the draft royal decree that would allow us to ensure that the young person will not suffer a reduction in his net salary. A second reading had been requested in order to be able to dispose of the document. We didn't get it. Perhaps we can get it today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u81	As long as it's written!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u82	Is there indeed? The reality is that today Members are going to vote for a measure that reduces the wages of young people without knowing whether this reduction will be fully compensated. The majority will therefore vote blindly for this measure, without knowing its true impact. It's irresponsible! In the end, with this government, it's always the same method. He passes in force with always the same argument that does not hold the road: to do harm to do good. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I see once again, in the majority, a lack of understanding of the experience of the workers. We will therefore vote against this proposal. Are you surprised, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u83	The legislative proposal on the strengthening of economic growth and social cohesion, the former Relance Act, contains a number of measures that are worthy of its title. I'll get some points out of it. The first is the change in the notice period and the reintroduction of a trial period light. Those are Articles 91 and 93. This is a very good measure, which was much needed, because after the end of the probationary period in 2014, we were able to conclude on the basis of several studies that many employers had become more reluctant to offer employees a contract of indefinite duration immediately. The new measure, with a reduction in notice periods, is a pity in this respect and may lead to employers abandoning their reluctant attitude. We hope that, in any case, and I even think that the measure will be a step in the right direction. A second point, which has caused some criticism from the opposition, concerns the starter jobs. This is a particularly good measure, because the reduction in the gross wage of start-up jobs will encourage employers to recruit low-skilled people who do not always have easy access to the labour market in our society. The reduced gross wage will not reduce the income for young start-ups, but will act as an ingrowth wage and will ensure that these young people are taken from under mothers' skirts. Low-skilled young people often stay at home at parents' expense or enter the system of living wages. This reduced gross wage will result in them getting into the labour market, as a certain work attitude is being learned and will continue to grow into a serious and well-paid job. That's very important. Recent studies show that there is still work to be done on this very point in our labour market. The measure will provide an answer to this. In view of these two measures, linked to the measures for the construction sector, for which the government is also making a serious effort to increase employment, we have no choice but to adopt this proposal. Minister, you can count on our support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u84	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, finally, the recovery plan and the strengthening of social cohesion are on the agenda of this plenary session. You will remember that the government decided this plan at the heart of last summer and that, unfortunately, the timidity of some groups forced us to have to use this technique of bill, in order to be able to arrive at a text particularly important for the employment and the economy of our country. The text has three parts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u85	Barely his speech started, he has already said the word too much! Mr. Clarinval, excuse me for interrupting. I heard "flibus." I felt targeted. I'd like to draw your attention, Mr. Clarinval. How do you think we've committed a libouste? Why are we here today with this bill? It is sometimes interesting to remind him. That's because you've been blocked on the issue of the 6 000 euro defiscalized and "unparafiscalized". I warn you right away: on this issue, as far as we are concerned, we will go to the end of what we can do! I can assure you, Mr. Clarinval, that this is not just because we are in opposition. We have behind us the non-market sector, the voluntary sector, the self-employed and employers, and SMEs in particular. All these are extremely delighted today that you have not yet been able to move forward on these famous 6 000 euro defiscalised and "unparafiscalized". We'll hold to the end because you're introducing incredible unfair competition with this mechanism. You are really dumping intra-Belgian with many jobs hurting! Mr. Clarinval, if that's what you call the libuste, I can assure you that it will continue for a long time to come. I am pleased to remind you here that we have major sectors of the economy behind us, whether commercial or non-market, and that they fully support our approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u86	Mr President, an ambiguity must be removed on this point. I will repeat what my colleague Mr.Daerden said to the minister about the bill. If I read correctly, the agenda contains the following: Clarinval, Van Quickenborne, Vercamer and Spooren. But Mrs Kitir did well to ask for the Minister's presence. We know that he is the main editor of the text. Mr. Peeters is the biological father of the text and Mr. Clarinval is the parent of the text. In fact, there are three porter fathers, because there is much to wear! Mr Clarinval, we are not going to draw up the history of this issue for a long time. It's kind of like TV shows, which are very fashionable. We're in season five. There was the summer deal, then the sausageing. There will be more seasons. The series has even subreptitiously changed its name. It is now "For the strengthening of economic growth and social cohesion". We found him a little bit more sexy and sellable. Tréve de jeurie, it was a kind of program law or a tote law, in which the majority had not always shown the greatest consistency either. It is not surprising, therefore, that the matter had to be watered and voted on at different times. You started your speech, Mr. Clarinval, with the word "Finally!" Finally, for this part, you will succeed. We will be able to examine it and express ourselves differently on the content of this project. I just wanted to redo this little history and lift the ambiguity between the biological father and the portant father who is in the gallery.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u87	Mr President, the word "flibus" means misuse of the Rules of Procedure and other procedural techniques to drag things on. We are not far from this notion here. I have not yet touched upon the substance, but only the form. You're right, Mrs. Fonck, to say it's not over. There will indeed be one last episode, Mr. Delizée. This will be the arrival in parliament, in a few weeks – I hope – of the text on the 500 euros. You're right, it's not a bill anymore, it's a proposal. In order to get around the timidity, we had to make use of a bill in order to be able to vote quickly – if I dare say these words – "the recovery plan". In fact, I never hid from it; I went to present things in this way in the three ad hoc committees. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u88	I thank you for reminding you of the wording, but to be shorter, I will still talk about the "relaunch plan". It consists of three packages of measures: an employment package, a purchasing power package and social cohesion measures. As far as employment measures are concerned, Mr Daerden was very quick when he pointed out that we are indeed going to expand the possibility of using temporary work in the shipbuilding and moving sector. A second measure is to extend the period within which the social partners can conclude collective agreements on training. You remember this case went through a lot of ink. A royal decree on the subject had been broken. Today, we allow the social partners – you know that we are very committed to social dialogue – to conclude collective agreements on training. The text gives the social partners more time to conclude agreements. The third measure concerns the right to disconnect. With technological change, it sometimes becomes very difficult for some workers to disconnect. We are therefore going to allow companies, if they wish, to set an internal framework to regulate this new phenomenon and to allow workers to breathe when the time comes. The fourth measure relates to the trial period. Mr Daerden, I am sorry to have to contradict you, but you will remember the debate we had when the social partners, a few years ago, reached an agreement which cancelled the trial period. From the start, we pulled the alarm bell saying that what might appear as a good measure would ultimately have a perverse effect. Employers, who can no longer use probationary periods, simply use temporary work or fixed-term contracts. They no longer give contracts of indefinite duration because they are afraid of having to pay far too much notice, and because they have not been able to carry out a trial period. Although this is a decision of the social partners, from the outset the employer's bench was, I believe, not very enthusiastic. I even think that on the union bench there is a half-word recognition that there have been perverse effects. They probably won't say it publicly. A change should therefore be made. We do not re-register trial periods. We will reduce the length of notice required in work periods of less than six months. We are therefore somewhat softening this measure. It seems to me that this brings more sustainable jobs during periods of activity. I come to the fifth measure, and I also disagree with you, Mr. Daerden. It's about starter jobs. I'm still going to give you a few figures because I fell out of my chair and heard you earlier! In the Walloon Region, 28% of young people are unemployed and 38% in Brussels. On average, this represents almost one in five young people in Belgium. It seems irresponsible to us not to have a specific measure for that audience. You may not like the method, but it has demonstrated its effects. See the number of job creations that have been achieved since the introduction of the tax shift and the reduction of social contributions. In this case, this approach is being pursued in favour of young people. Certainly, Mr. Daerden, there is a reduction in gross wages, that is the truth. But, as you know, the government is committed to making a tax compensation that will ensure that the workers concerned (the youngest workers) will keep a net wage the same as it used to be. We will thus put a whole series of young workers back into employment. We believe that this audience really needs to be targeted; it is an important issue for the years to come. I now turn to the second package, which deals with fiscal and financial matters. First of all, we introduce a scheme in which a citizen has the possibility to pay up to EUR 1,200 per year as part of his pension savings. More than two and a half million Belgians subscribe to it. For our group, encouraging the creation of pension capital is essential. Secondly, we support growing businesses. The proposed measures make it possible to mobilise savings to provide venture capital in unlisted growing companies with a financing deficit. Growing businesses play a key role in job creation and are an important factor in economic development. The third tax measure, which I believe is important, is intended to provide discount exemptions on a global basis rather than on an individual basis, as in the past. This will enable more people from the sectors concerned to benefit. In addition, measures are being extended to the construction sector. Mr Daerden, you spoke earlier about this sector. You know very well that the latter is particularly affected by social dumping. A whole series of measures have been in place for a number of years to combat it. Let me remind you of point 1 of a resolution which we voted here three or four years ago unanimously, if my memory is good and relating to the fight against social dumping. In this respect, it is pointed out that care must first be taken to reduce labour costs so that jobs are simply more competitive. With this measure, we will be able to reduce the handicap in the construction sector. Disability will not be completely eliminated, but we are taking a step in the right direction. This will, in any case, make it possible to "contrary" the social dumping which is currently present in our country. The third package of measures submitted to you today relates to the promotion of social cohesion. These are particularly important measures, since they aim in particular at providing supplementary financial support to single parents, who have a limited income resulting from a work activity. It is therefore an additional financial supplement that is provided through the tax-exempt income quota. The target audience is the lowest income group. It is therefore undeniable that this is a social measure. In my view, it is only fair to provide these people with a particularly welcome financial complement. Finally, the second measure on social cohesion aims to extend access to the Maintenance Claims Service to legal cohabitants. As a result, discrimination between spouses and cohabitants is eliminated. Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, for several years now our government has embarked on a strategy to revive our economy. The recovery law is in line with this strategy. Even more so, today we are committed to accelerating and strengthening the economic activity of our country. For our group, it is important that the government continue on this path. We have already demonstrated the relevance of the solutions that have been put in place. The figures that come out every day also show us that. Therefore, you will not be surprised that the MR Group is voting with enthusiasm and conviction in favour of this penultimate series of the recovery plan, Mr Delizée. I have no doubt that the enthusiasm will again manifest itself to vote the last (episode of this series) in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal before us contains a combination of measures aimed at strengthening economic growth, on the one hand, and improving social protection, on the other. I would like to draw your attention to three measures. Firstly, the more gradual build-up of notice periods at notice by the employer during the first six months. The Group of Ten had already considered this and they were close to an agreement, but that was stranded just before the finish. The majority has built on some prelude to the Group of Ten. We want to encourage the employer to give new young workers an open-ended contract from the start. The existing cancellation scheme often put a brake on this. By reforming the cancellation scheme, we want to eliminate the improper use of temporary contracts as a kind of trial period. Moreover, workers who have been employed for five or six months also receive better protection than before, namely five weeks' notice instead of four. The second measure I would like to mention here is to strengthen the employment opportunities for young people. Mr Clarinval has just quoted the figures on youth unemployment. There are still too many young people with short-term skills who are struggling to find a job in the labour market. With this proposal, employers will receive a reduction in gross wages if they offer this group of young people a contract of indefinite duration. The reduction for the employer does not affect the net wage of young people, so they continue to earn the same amount. The lower wage costs combined with the first step towards the gradual build-up of notice periods should encourage employers to give young people an employment opportunity with an indefinite contract rather than having them start short temporary contracts. The third measure I would like to draw your attention to is the provision of additional resources to prevent burn-outs. These additional resources make it possible to implement a policy on burn-out tailored to the company and the sector. It won't be too soon. A final study, which I read yesterday, indicates that 20% of workers are at increased risk of burn-out. According to all experts, the problem of burn-out should be addressed mainly at company level, together with employees and managers. This legislative proposal provides for the possibility and the means to do so effectively at company and sector level. In this sense, therefore, we are continuing to pursue the same path not only to create jobs but also to keep the work sustainable for the people we are asking to hold out for a little longer. That is why, of course, the legislative proposal before us can also count on the support of our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u90	Minister, I think it is important for you to be here. It is not often that an agreement is negotiated in the summer and that agreement has to go through all the seasons of the year before it reaches plenary. So I think it is a special moment for you too; therefore I think it is important for you to be present at the meeting. Mr Vercamer and Mr Clarinval have explained what the proposal says. Under the circumstances, the bill was passed into a bill. I will come back to that later. My party believes it is important that you pay attention to the burn-out and the deconnection. That is not happening this time from a punitive point of view, but from a negotiating point of view and at company level. That is very important and we will support it. It is a first step in the right direction and the sp.a will follow that. However, there are three points that the sp.a does not agree with. The first is the change in notice periods. You know that it was historic, Mrs De Coninck is in the Chamber when an agreement was reached on the period of notice. It was a major step, in which the differences between workers and servants were completely eliminated. There's still work on the shelf. No one believed that this would ever happen, but in the previous legislature we managed to overcome these differences. I very much regret that this compromise, which was very difficult to reach between employers, workers and politics, is now being changed unilaterally. You are using the argument that no agreement could be found in the Group of Ten and that you are making a unilateral decision, but that is a little short-sighted, especially in view of the history of the dossier. Perhaps today you can also explain how far you stand with the further elimination of the differences between workers and servants. I do not hear much about this, but it is important that one day the differences between the two categories have been completely eliminated and that everyone is an employee. Perhaps you could also give some explanation. Secondly, this proposal abolishes the ban on temporary work, particularly in the transport sector and in inland waterway transport. I shall return to the criticism that has just been made. I very much regret that this is being imposed unilaterally and that there is no consultation with the social partners. I am thinking in particular of whether this measure will create additional employment. There was a reason for the ban on temporary work in inland waterway transport and the relocation sector, in the sense that safety is very important in both sectors. The requirements for working there are much higher than in any other sector. During the discussions you indicated that temporary workers there will have to meet the same safety conditions as those who work there. However, I doubt whether your measure will effectively increase employment. If an employer has to make as much effort for a temporary worker as for a permanent worker, why would he choose a temporary worker? I therefore regret this measure. I am also concerned about the safety of temporary workers in this sector, where safety is very sensitive. Thirdly, the starter jobs, and that is what the previous speakers have been talking about. You argue that you want, above all, low-skilled people to get a job and that start-ups facilitate the way to the labour market. When you submitted your draft on workable work to the Chamber, you tabled an amendment on the salary of young people in start-up jobs. You withdrew that amendment, however, and there was quite a lot of commotion at the time about the fact that the dossier was not yet ripe and that you wanted to discuss it further. You then came back and added this element to the bill on economic revival. Actually, not much has changed. In your first proposal, young people had to knock on the door of the RVA for the part they would lose. Now you turn it around; you now place the responsibility on the employer. The employer pays a reduced gross wage, but the employee would not notice this in the net wage. But, first of all, the younger one will be in a weaker position. If he loses his job, his benefit will be calculated on his gross wage and not on his net wage, which will result in him receiving a lower benefit than if he was employed in a normal situation. Secondly, we have fought very hard for a long time to eliminate this discrimination. We do not want young people to receive a different wage than adults. However, you are re-introducing this discrimination. Thirdly, this measure will cost a lot of money. A first calculation led to a cost of 40 million. You're talking about a 20 million-dollar return. The figures are therefore still under discussion. In particular, there are doubts as to whether the measure will create so much employment. If around 800 additional jobs are created through this measure, then 40 million is against an immense amount. I hear several colleagues arguing that the measure is intended to give extra opportunities to low-skilled people. However, the measure now before us is being implemented for all young people. So no distinction is made, it is not true that it gives the low-skilled additional opportunities. The measure also applies to young people who would have found their way into the labour market from a normal situation. I am therefore against this measure and I would very much regret it if it were implemented. We cannot support this measure at all. Mr Minister, I come to the last measure that has not yet been included in the proposal. The reason why this proposal has been delayed is that there is another measure, in particular an arrangement of EUR 6 000 untaxed additional income. We have held hearings on this subject and all ten guest speakers have been very destructive about the proposal before us. In the meantime, you've bought time. I therefore very much hope that you will use the time that you have left, and which you have obtained because of the delay in the draft, to take it to heart, so that we will not be faced with an identical proposal. In fact, you have changed the Relance Act into the law on the strengthening of economic growth and social cohesion, but if you put it to the vote again, as initially tabled, you can change the title in one movement, because then it will not be about strengthening but about disrupting economic growth. If you do not believe me, I suggest you read the testimonies of the ten speakers on the Social Affairs Committee. So I hope you will take that to heart. Unfortunately, we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u91	Mr President, that is what remains of the package received at the end of December, which was called the Recovery Act. We then said that the government's method was not the right one and that it was going into the wall. This led to the fragmentation of the text into different parts. Corporate tax reform was voted before the end of December, to apply on 1 January. Part of this revival law is being analyzed today. The third part has already been discussed, with the aim of enabling citizens to earn 500 euros a month, 6 000 euros a year, without insurance, without social contributions, without paying taxes. This is the element that was mostly stuck in December, when socio-economic interlocutors, including representatives of the community, were invited to comment and said all the bad they thought of this bad idea. The bad job is a good job. This is something that you must remember and that has been seen in our recent history. There is a conflict of interest procedure. I invite the government to review its copy, and even to forget it completely. Otherwise, I promise you a lot of resistance from the Ecolo-Groen Group and other opposition groups. Because the arrangement is really bad. Mr Clarinval, if we come so late about a text that was already on Parliament's table in December, it is because of the majority. We are ready to work, but in good conditions. When all the socio-economic and associative interlocutors say of a text that it is bad, it is probably not very good. The government has a little too much tendency to go into fog. What remains of the December text in the proposal before us today? There are still provisions that pose problems for us, some that challenge us and others that we can finally support. Among the problematic measures are those relating to the first young jobs. Mr. Minister of Employment, we obviously share your concern about youth employment. In fact, at the end of their studies, too many people are unable to participate in working life and thus dequalify themselves for long periods of unemployment. However, it seems to me to be incorrect to consider that paying them less than their elders is an answer to the issue. You will be able to reply that this is only a reduction in the gross wage, which will be compensated to the extent that the net wage will be equivalent to that of an older worker. First of all, we are waiting to obtain evidence of this, as the government has not provided us with the royal order it is preparing on this matter. Secondly, it is to ignore that the gross part of the wage is an integral part of the worker's remuneration and generates rights in terms of social security and pension. When savings on social contributions are realized without compensating them for the allocation of certain rights, young people are given an under-status and society is given a bad signal. Just now, I was telling you that the wrong job is chasing the right one. In my view, you should also ask yourself why too few young workers have an indeterminate job with a correct salary. This is partly because you put them in competition with student workers. The indiscriminate extension of student work by this majority and the previous one has created competition between workers. Similarly, this measure on young jobs, which is time-limited, will create competition between very young workers, those who leave school and those who are a little older and whose costs will be higher, so that they will be less easily engaged by employers. What is needed in terms of access to employment for young people is more structural measures. Mr Minister, I have often spoken to you about our proposal for a "Tandem Plan" which would allow workers over 55 years of age to gradually lift their feet, to be replaced for the period of work abandoned by young workers, in order to offer a flexible transition for both young people and older workers to the pension. There are more innovative and dynamic ways to promote youth employment. Another problem is the extension of access to temporary work to sectors protected by collective agreements. On the one hand, you are in contradiction with agreements between workers and employers in specific joint committees and, on the other hand, you are part of this logic, which means that if there are more workers working today than yesterday - which we are happy to see - too many workers have uncomfortable temporary statutes. I am thinking of temporary workers of one day or of fixed duration, who do not have job security, for example, allowing them to enter into a mortgage or to have a certain security of existence. We cannot support this provision. Minister, to follow up on a provision on which our opinion is more nuanced, when you consider fighting burn-out, to offer workers a right to disconnect, the best of the measures is that which contributes to the quality of the job. When the burn-out is there, it is too late and insufficient to put in place mechanisms to support those who are victims of it, because, in this and other areas, prevention must be promoted. The concept of disconnection, which you bring for the first time in a legislative text, is interesting. It corresponds to a new technological phenomenon, this hyperconnection, which is a chance but also a pressure on workers. You will admit, however, that these provisions are very light in that they involve opening up the possibility of financing pilot experiments or encouraging concerted action on the subject. We do not want to set this initiative on fire, but we call on you to work on the quality of employment issues ahead of the burn-out phenomena and to do more on the subject. On the question of the return of a form of trial period for workers, I will have a more nuanced opinion than the colleagues who have already spoken. Yes, indeed, the abolition of the trial period was the subject of a comprehensive agreement by the social partners, which must be respected because we believe in social consultation. But no doubt this idea was not excellent and it hindered the ability and willingness of employers to make a commitment, since they did not see in concrete terms how they could act if the person they had chosen did not fit the intended function. We can accept that reforms resulting from social dialogue must also be evaluated and, if necessary, corrected. What is disturbing here is that you are doing this against the opinion of the social partners, without allowing them to amend their reform themselves. The new system will have to be evaluated, but objectively the abolition of the trial period has had unintended effects, in particular that employers have been forced to hire new workers. We therefore have a nuanced opinion on the matter. With regard to a final positive opinion on the Social Affairs component, we welcome measures to improve the situation of lone parents with low incomes. We believe that this public of single mothers, sometimes single fathers, should be given special attention in social matters because there is a great social pressure and a high risk of dropping out. I now come to the Finance provisions, Mr. Minister of Finance. We do believe that we need to be able to develop new mechanisms for financing the economy, including innovation. My colleague, Gilles Vanden Burre, here, is very attentive to this dimension. Nevertheless, it is necessary - and I am mainly aiming at the new mechanism of private pricafs - to ensure that the reforms envisaged do not create a boon effect, reward economic actors who do not make a special effort to develop the economy and employment and are fiscally sustainable. I must say our concern about that. A precise monitoring of this measure will be necessary, on the one hand, to see whether it achieves the declared objectives of boosting the financing of enterprises and, on the other hand, to see whether it is financially sustainable. In the same text, Mr Minister, you propose the transposition of a European directive on the fight against tax evasion. You are presenting this measure as a measure initiated by the government with regard to tax evasion, but, unfortunately, this does not stand up to analysis since the government has chosen a minimum transposition of the European directive. Only another EU Member State, the United Kingdom, made this choice. You are showing too little ambition in the fight against tax evasion, as we have already pointed out on several occasions. On the other hand, in the "revenues" section, you are announcing maximum revenues. Mr Van Rompuy, I know that you are paying attention to this in the context of the budgetary debate. Translating a directive at a minimum and announcing maximum revenues means making the big gap. It is a very remarkable gymnastics service, but I think that in political, financial and budgetary matters, it is taking the risk of a new slip that is known to whom your government wants to make it pay. We have said in committee, in the context of the first reading of this text, at the time of the draft, our whole scepticism on this subject. I can only repeat it here. Finally, Mr Finance Minister, on a good financial point, we voted in favour of the measures concerning the Maintenance Claims Service (Secal/Davo), because they do correspond to a request from the Committee on Support, of which my excellent colleague Mrs Gerkens is a member. The aim is, in particular, to assimilate legal cohabitants to married parents in relation to advances that may be granted to families in which one of the parents does not fulfil his obligations to contribute to the upbringing of the children. It's a step in the right direction. The sector has been listened to and legislation has been evaluated and adapted. I can only encourage you to practice more systematically in this way, particularly on this issue of concern to us, the question of maintenance debts, the question of single parents. We believe that it is a matter of society that deserves more attention, I have already said, and also more resources for the service concerned, which is somewhat the poor parent of your administration, Mr. Minister of Finance. We will therefore continue to ask you about the subject and encourage improvements, as is the case in this text. We stress this positively. That is why we will not vote against this text, despite our criticism. In view of the provisions on maintenance claims, we will abstain, even if other provisions of the text pose major problems for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u92	Minister, I will speak primarily to the government. In any case, Mr. Clarinval is no longer there to answer technical questions. I'm not going to get lost in this, but I'm just going to do a reminder shot, which I've already done earlier. I can only encourage you to listen to civil society on the project of the €6,000 defiscalised and deparafiscalized. I know that this is not the purpose of today, but if we talk about this proposal today, it is first and foremost because of the EUR 6 000 defiscalised and deparafiscalised. That is why your bill, which is now many months old, has been blocked. It may seem sexy to have 500 euros this month, without taxes. Yeah, it's sexy, but the perverse effects are huge. All the social partners, regardless of the bank to which they belong, have done exactly the same analysis. This creates intrabelgian social dumping. This creates real unfair competition. This project will be the basis for the destruction of jobs. It needs to be fundamentally reviewed. I'm not one of those who don't want it at all. I'm saying, why not? But I put the condition in it that the project be circumscribed and limited to one or the other small sector, such as that of sport. I think he was a plaintiff. I am also thinking of culture. Designing and applying it in an extremely broad way, from all sectors, will create unfair competition with the self-employed and even more so with the complementary self-employed. It will pose real problems in the non-market sector. It will create problems for small and medium-sized enterprises. That's an absolute no. If you come back with this project of the 6 000 euros defiscalised and paradiscalized as you designed it, we will fight in a way to the botist. Bring him in, make him evolve, narrow his sphere! We do not want it at all in its enlarged dimension. I take the moment to do this reminder: you must not play the sorcerer apprentices with this project. For us, this is fundamental. For the many sectors concerned as well. We must remember everything that was said during the hearings. Besides, a few days ago, I still had contacts with the middle classes, the Neutral Union for Independents, with the non-marketer. They told me that we had to fight with them against this project. The bill, which is a part of your bill, if it proposes interesting things, it proposes others that are blurred, not to say harmful. I will let my colleague Benoît Dispa intervene on the tax side in order to devote myself to the issue of employment. Among the interesting things on this part, there is disconnection. When I introduced my bill, no one moved. The government and some members of the majority had even made it clear to me that I was proposing anything. So much the better if, at the end of the day, it will have given thought to the point that today the government is taking it back. You're going a little further, but it's a step in the right direction. It is therefore part of the text to which we are in favour. The prevention of burnout is in itself a positive aspect, particularly with regard to reintegration into the workplace. Without wishing to reduce your involvement in a matter that is of particular interest to you - this initiative comes from the social partners - I am disappointed that you have not adopted the whole of their proposals. On the "innovation in the prevention of burn-out", interesting proposals had been made. It's a shame you didn't agree to take the full package. This way of selecting certain aspects of the file is somewhat regrettable. In addition, what may seem interesting is the training component. However, I have a few small questions to ask you, because since you developed your bill, time has passed. Minister, I would have wanted to know where we are in this area. Indeed, - I will not recall all the history - but a royal decree was published very late since, if my information is correct, – and I think they are – the famous royal decree that executed one of the articles relating to the formation of the law of 5 March 2017 was published in December 2017. I recall that this section amended the entire provision that set the effective date. But the law will only be passed. What about this royal decree on the training component that was published in December 2017? Is this tenable in terms of timing, given the telescoping of the evolution of the law and the delays you have taken in this respect? Can you enlighten us on this point? I would point out that the social partners had to take note of the Royal Decree before they could table their CLCs on the training effort at sectoral level. I would like to make sure that this is truly feasible for all sectors and the social partners. This is, I repeat, the subject of the CTC filing section. I would now like to focus on two measures contained in your bill, which I believe is very vague. [[The first measure relates to young people's first jobs.]] Any employment that can be created constitutes an added value. It is estimated that 670 jobs for some, 1,000 jobs for others are expected to be created. Recognize that 78 million public money to create between 670 and 1,000 jobs is expensive for jobs. But if this gives young people access to employment, I am not necessarily negative. You have not forgotten that this measure has been rectified several times. We had obtained from you the commitment that, even if the crude was greatly reduced, the net would be compensated. You had made this promise, and I still do not see it clearly, since this one, in the analysis, cannot be kept since a royal decree must be made in this matter. What's the status? Are you clear about its content? Its technicality must not be simple unless you have found the magic formula, since a whole table will be indispensable to fix the lump sum supplement according to the age and minimum wage used as the basis for the reduction. I had the opportunity to discuss with the CSC youth who made projections. Do you have them at your disposal? Recently, these young people have projected losses or not, with figures, estimated secondary to starters jobs. I understand they sent them to you. I don't know what analysis you draw from this work done by these young people. They cited the following example: "An 18 - year - old worked in electrical mechanical metal construction for one year (CP 111.01). The net losses are as follows: 147 euros net of end-of-year premium less; 319 euros net of holiday money less; an impact of sick days (which bothers me very much and I will therefore come back later) as well as on the unemployment side. They calculated for the employer a savings of EUR 5 000 per year per young worker. I'd like to hear your reaction to that. First of all, what I am concerned about is your promises of compensation, the promises of compensation and the reduction of the gross to the level of the net. To see these projections and the immobility in which the royal decree is located, will there be, yes or no, a real compensation at the level of the net? I would remind you that the Prime Minister, himself, had committed himself when we rescheduled you for the first time. Then everyone will say that, if someone loses part of their vacation money, it won't be very serious since they have a job. Yes or no, Minister, can we get a clear commitment that if young people in such particular jobs fall ill or are victims of an accident at work, they will not be left on the side? We can still discuss holiday pecules or end-of-year bonuses endlessly, but I find that we must be intransigent in defending protection against illness and an accident at work. This is our collective responsibility. We cannot therefore agree to widen the gap between professional activities. The importance of this issue is such that I would like you to engage very clearly in this area. I believe that I have thus gone around what we believe to be positive measures on the one hand and problematic provisions on the other. I'm obviously waiting for your answers. If you can make firm commitments - and you will have understood what issues - we will abstain from this bill, which includes part of your stimulus bill. If, on the contrary, you could not reassure us of the points I have raised, then we should oppose them. Nevertheless, I dare to hope – since I am beginning to get used to your positions – that the aspects that seem to me to be a problem also seem essential to you and that, therefore, you can commit yourself to tarnishing them. In this case, we will abstain from voting on this text, but – and I could not say otherwise – by giving you this reminder for the case of the 6,000 euro defiscalized and deparafiscalized. We are reaching an alternative proposal, the scope of which would be limited to sport and culture, but there is absolutely no question of extending it to all professional activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u93	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to go back to what my colleague Frédéric Daerden has said, which has done a rather synthetic but essential analysis on the substance. Nor will I address the issue of EUR 500, since it is not the draft text that is before us. It will be for seasons 6, 7 and 8 no doubt. I wanted to speak on one aspect of the case that has not yet been much discussed: the articles which envisage tightening the conditions for granting an income replacement allowance for persons with disabilities. According to this project, the disabled person must have had his residence in Belgium for at least ten years, of which five years must be uninterrupted in the month. It is rather paradoxical to see that this measure is included in a project entitled "In favour of strengthening economic growth and social cohesion". I have asked Mrs De Block this question several times without having an answer. I would have asked Mr.Clarinval, the first author of the bill, but I note that he is not here. I am not going to ask for his presence in court, but as a father carrying the case, he might have tried to answer that question. Is he likely to think that he is only the carrier of suitcases and that he does not necessarily have to attend all the discussions? With regard to preventing individuals from filing a file on the basis of residency conditions, we were told that it was a matter of combating abuse. When we said that, we said everything. There's no more argument behind it, it's really the leitmotiv. The Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities told us that the number of fraudulent cases was not important and that that was not the reason why the system should not be changed. No credible figures or answers were provided to our questions. In one of the previous seasons, 3 or 4, there was a strong tension in committee between Mrs Lanjri and Mrs Demir on this issue of numbers. Mrs Lanjri rightly said that we must be able to judge objectively the extent of the phenomenon. We could only approve his request. We have only had a vague answer that was to say that the current system would be too "performing". It is very difficult to know the system of access to allowances for disabled people. The 1987 Act is a true journey of the combatant for those who introduce a file. There are conditions to be met: administrative records, medical conditions, financial conditions. In addition, it is a system that does not lack controls or sanctions. There are revisions, amounts that are recovered. We're already in hyper-control, hyper-sanction, and we're told we still have to fight abuse. In fact, in the original draft, the very reason for this provision was clearly indicated: control of the evolution of the cost of this income replacement allowance, which increased by 30 % in 10 years. If Mr Clarinval had been present, I would have asked him how this tightening of the conditions for granting disabled persons is a measure that promotes social cohesion. Even economic recovery. To this question, I think there is obviously no answer! Apart from the obsession with the fight against fraud, for a few dozen cases, I think there are other obsessions that are more positive, such as allowing people with disabilities to live in dignity, or ensuring that no one is below the poverty line. These are objectives which, in my opinion, are quite noble. In the debate, the Secretary of State told us that finally it is not a big deal if tomorrow, according to this new scheme, people cannot file a file for an income replacement allowance, they will always be able to assert their right to a social integration allowance at the CPAS. It is therefore very clearly a transfer of burdens to CPAS and local authorities. With regard to legal objections, objections raised by the Council of State, and all the points covered by the Council of State, the same were discussed during the debate on GRAPA, the law of January 2017 passed here by the majority, which indicates these same conditions for granting GRAPA. Unfortunately, we have also not received a satisfactory answer to these questions: objection to the principle of equal treatment of citizens within the European Union; objection to Article 23 of our Constitution, which recognizes social rights; objection to the very condition of stay of 10 years to demonstrate a lasting link with Belgium. To none of these, none of these questions, we have received a valid answer or argument, except that fraud must always be combated. As a reminder, the provisions of the GRAPA Act have been appealed by the League of Human Rights to the Constitutional Court. The Conseil d'État says: Whether it is the GRAPA Act of 2017 or the present scheme that is proposed to us, all this can lead to sanctions not only by the Belgian Constitutional Court, but also by the European courts. These measures are in line with this government's policy of reducing social spending. Unfortunately, he is a bit of the poor parent of this policy. For persons with disabilities, there were great projects: the reform of the Allowances Act 1987, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adapting our legislation to the rights of persons with disabilities, etc. I think that people with disabilities have not been delusional for a long time, they know that they have nothing to expect from this majority and this government to be positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u94	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be quite short because the subject is so dense that I will confine myself to provisions on employment. This bill includes measures that we can support, but there are also elements to which we can only partially adhere, and others to which we are totally opposed. I will not review all the provisions, but I would like briefly to express our views on a few aspects, first of all the change in the notice details. Although it is our custom to respect the agreements of the social partners, we have never been convinced that the trial period should be abolished. The risk of a perverse effect seemed too obvious. Employers would recruit much more cautiously and favour fixed-term and acting contracts. Therefore, we are not opposed in principle to this proposal, which aims to reintroduce a period of six months during which the period of notice is reduced, but gradually depending on seniority. We regret, however, that this new system, which is somewhat complicated, has not been drawn up on the basis of consultation with the social partners. On the other hand, with regard to the prevention of burnout, we appreciate the confidence that these provisions give to the social partners. We regret the fact that you would not have a real right to disconnect. The government is asking workers to work longer and more flexibly. We therefore consider it all the more important to grant them the right to have private beaches to distance themselves from their professional activities, but all you propose is a right to discuss a right of disconnection. We are opposed to the concept of the first job for young people. Of course, you create a lever for the engagement of low-skilled young people, but this leverage has too many perverse effects. We fear that this system will put downward pressure on the wages of young people who could be paid more than the minimum. The government is already too likely to make young people a cheap and flexible workforce in student jobs. Some employers already consider these young people to be tailor-made and corvetable to the point of threatening the success of their studies. This proposal is in line with the Government's actions to undermine the guaranteed minimum average income or the equivalent provided by the CTC. This will have an effect on the personal contributions of these workers and on the social rights which take into account the salary received, as is the case with the pension. With this type of measure, a youth turnover is also promoted. The employer will tend to separate from them when they no longer meet the conditions. This is likely to further hinder youth employment. In addition, and contrary to the measures put in place in the Brussels Region in favour of young people, the training aspect is completely neglected here. Young people will probably have a first job experience but this will not increase their chances of moving towards sustainable and quality employment. For these and other reasons, we will not support your project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u95	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on economic recovery and the strengthening of social cohesion is wrong in this title. Even the words "proposal of law" are false, since it is a residual part of a bill that contained corporate tax reform and that has become a bill to circumvent the House's Rules. The words "economic recovery" are a formula that should, in reality, be called "capital gifts" granted to the detriment of the world of work: social gifts, tax gifts, precarization of the labour market. Of course, politically, "economic recovery" is easier to sell than "gifts to our rich friends". Finally, to soften this gift plan, we added "strengthening social cohesion". But, of course, we are in purely symbolic rebalancing. I will quickly pin down a few measures starting with temporary work. We remember the May 1968 slogan: "It is forbidden to ban." That's kind of what we have here. It is prohibited to prohibit temporary work in certain sectors. This is ultimately what is included in this project. The aim is to promote temporary work which would be accepted in particular in the field of moving, inland navigation, while the trade unions have stressed the dangers that this poses, particularly in terms of the risks of potentially fatal accidents at work. I have knowledge which, unfortunately, suffered a fatal accident in the context of temporary work. But we know that this government is a machine for precarising work. Comparing the latest statistics for the third quarter of 2017 with those for the third quarter of 2014, it can be seen that full-time jobs have increased by 1.7%, part-time jobs by 6% and acting jobs by 26.5%. The government's action in terms of the precariousness of the labour market is, unfortunately, working. And remember that almost 70% of interim contracts are one day, one day contracts! We already knew that the right - I include the CD&V on the right, if you don't mind, minister - was hammering us: "Lifetime employment is over." Obviously the future, for the right, it is the one-day employment contract. I'm going to the young people's salaries. The government intends to reduce the gross wages of school leavers in order to better adapt them to the labour market. What attention! We cut your salary, but it's for your own good. It is known that, as a domino effect, when the wages of a class of workers are reduced, this reduction has a downward impact on all wages in the world of work. I'm sorry to say that this is a government text, but I mentioned it in the introduction. The government says in net, young people won't lose anything. They will not lose anything at first sight, but they will still feel the effect of this reduction in gross wages in their holiday pay, in their end-of-year premium and in all the social rights which they accumulate, and which they receive in the event of sickness, unemployment and at the time of their pension. The effect of this measure is also to reduce social contributions. A lower gross wage means fewer social security contributions. Secondly, this majority government will tell us that there is not enough money in the social security funds for pensions. She'll say, "We have to get people to work longer." In short, this government introduces age discrimination and ultimately offers employers a gift without a guarantee of sustainable jobs. Here's another measure I want to pin on, among this quite indigestible arsenal. These are professional prepayment exemptions. This text obviously does not create them. But I will make a small reminder: what are these professional discount payment exemptions? This is the possibility for a boss to steal the taxes of his workers. Normally, the employer takes the occupational deduction from the wages of his workers and pays it to the tax authorities. But for a number of years, he has had the opportunity to keep a game for himself, quite simply. So he steals the taxes of his workers. Initially, I had called this measure "the little brother of notional interests". But the little brother grew up strongly. In 2005, these professional discount exemptions amounted to EUR 200 million in the budget. Today, they amount to EUR 3 billion, or 15 times that amount. We know, because this was voted on a few weeks ago, that an additional EUR 600 million of professional discount payment exemptions will be added by 2020. Here, these professional discount exemptions are extended, in particular once again to temporary workers. This refers to what I said a few moments ago: this government is a machine to create precarious employment. Ministers, unfortunately, we will not be able to vote in favour of this text; we will even vote against it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u96	Colleagues, thank you for your reactions and questions. I will try to give you additional information because we have already mentioned a lot of things in committee. I will try to answer a number of additional questions, even though a lot has already been raised in committee. It is not correct to say that we have not respected the social partners. I said in committee that we asked them for a lot of opinions but that, unfortunately, the Group of Ten had not reached agreement on certain topics. We asked the social partners for maximum advice, but there was no agreement on a number of aspects. That was the case for the trial period. For example, the negotiators of the Group of Ten agreed to the arrangement, but this could happen to anyone who did not honour the negotiated agreement. We have gone very far in terms of the period of notice, in order to draw a line. Some argue that this was already part of the wider agreement of the previous government. All due respect for what the previous government achieved in this respect, but also the social partners, some more than others, were prepared to work on the period of notice, because in practice they put a brake on the recruitment of young people. In short, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the social partners in the Group of Ten have been asked to give an opinion or to reach a consensus. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. In this situation, it is up to the government to decide. That's what we did. A number of Members welcomed our measures on burn-out. We are giving the National Labour Council and the social partners the opportunity to finance some 100 projects and to do so we have a sum of 1.8 million. Mrs Fonck, you pointed out that the social partners are also seeking innovation in this area. I am prepared to examine the possibility of extending the measures to prevent burn-out in support of innovative elements in the work. We will do so as quickly as possible and provide, in a programme law, for the possibility of working in this innovative approach. In short, I hope that we will tackle the problem of burn-out properly. Mr Gilkinet, you are right, we are not just going to tackle burn-out, we are also going to work preventively to avoid it when possible. I'm getting to temporary work. It is correct that we still had a ban on temporary work in a number of sectors, including inland waterway transport and the relocation sector. That ban has come about because there may be a safety issue. In committee, I did say that we will continue to have security monitored by the joint committees. The lifting of this ban must not jeopardise the safety of workers and of those who are close to it. This applies both to inland waterway transport and to the relocation sector. Here, too, we bring with us an important element that has been addressed, namely the safety aspect. As far as deconnection is concerned, we do not go as far as some countries that introduce a right to deconnection. We are convinced that this company must be looked at per company. We do want this very strongly as part of the consultation and dialogue between employees and employers on the agenda. Then it will be agreed via customization on the possibility of deconnection, so that employees know very clearly what is expected of them regarding e-mail and answering messages at weekends or evenings, after normal working hours. There were a lot of questions about the starter jobs. It is important to stress that we want to do everything we can to help young people get into work. Thank God youth unemployment has also fallen sharply in certain regions of this country. However, there are still regions where youth unemployment is relatively high. As Mrs Kitir rightly points out, we tabled and withdrawn a proposal here a while ago, because the net wage of these young people should not be lower, as the Prime Minister stressed here in plenary. We have sought a tax solution which will make it possible not to reduce the net wage of these young people. I am convinced that many young people find it difficult to get a job because employers always ask if they have experience. Young people without experience are not immediately profitable, given the wage costs that an employer has to pay for them. That's why we introduced those starter jobs. We are convinced that with this approach, which guarantees net wages, we will respond to all the sighs that have been expressed here. Ms. Fonck, I did not receive the CSC documents. You mentioned a few examples, and I'm going to ask about them, including the reactions of the administration and my firm. Finally, I have noted some important statements on the measure around EUR 500, which is not part of this text. Colleagues, with the proposed approach, we can further encourage job creation. It is true that this is not just about quantity but also about quality. Hence the text also covers aspects such as burn-out and deconnection, with which we also highlight quality. I hope that with the new measures we will give an extra boost to job creation, which has been going on for a number of years. For the rest, I think I have answered all the questions. If that is not the case, it will become clear in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u97	As far as the start-up job is concerned, we have indeed developed a tax and parafiscal formula, whereby an effective reduction in gross wage costs, which should in principle stimulate job creation, does not result in a loss of net wages. Thanks to this ideal combination, we create the opportunity for young people to take up a job, gain experience and build up social rights. With respect to the tax elements in this bill, Mr. Gilkinet's remarks have been made regarding the private pitfalls and the budget action we are going to take. We must of course check where this leads, but we are sure that it will provide us with additional elements in terms of initiatives and economic growth. The same applies to measures concerning tax fraud, for which we have tried to estimate the budgetary consequences in a correct and realistic way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u98	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u99	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2922/11) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2922/11) The title was changed by the Social Affairs Committee to "legislative proposal on strengthening economic growth and social cohesion." The title has been amended by the Social Affairs Committee to "proposal for a law on strengthening economic growth and social cohesion". The bill has 137 articles. The bill has 137 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u100	Amendments tabled: Amendments tabled:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u101	• 1 – Catherine Fonck (2922/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u102	• 2 – Catherine Fonck (2922/12) Art. 16
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u103	• 4 p.m. Catherine Fonck (2922/12) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u104	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Rules 15 to 17.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u105	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 14 and 18 to 137.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u106	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u107	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u108	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u109	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as I said in committee, our group supports the principle of extending the class action to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are often in a position of weakness compared to large enterprises, a situation which can be compared to that of consumers. We are, of course, in favour of more regulation in order to redress and rebalance economic relations between companies. We therefore fully support the objective of the bill under consideration. I am speaking, as I did in committee, to say that our group will approve the draft, but I will abstain, personally, for a number of reasons. First of all, in this case, Minister Ducrame does not follow the advice of the Conseil Supérieur des Indépendants et des SMEs. It is true with a little embarrassment, but despite our debates in committee, he did not think it was right to change his position. Again this week, the Conseil Supérieur des Indépendants et des SMEs made a very relevant remark by demonstrating that the class action system set up by the minister in this project is very easily bypassable. Indeed, one sentence is sufficient in the contract. It is sufficient for the most powerful trading partner to impose a contractual clause on the SME that promises not to use the system so that it loses the possibility of resorting to collective action. We wanted and still want to remedy this problem by banning this type of clause. Mr Ducrame replied in committee that I was right, but that this was not the time, that the question would be discussed later, that another draft would be submitted to us in June or later. Since we are now legislating, why not make an amendment along the lines of the Higher Council of Independents and SMEs? We have not understood why it was not possible to do so today; this is somewhat regrettable for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is my second point. With this project, the whole class of collective redress litigation will be transferred from the court of first instance to the Brussels Commercial Court, both for the new SME class action and for the old class of consumer action. We have taken note of the information provided by Test-Achats, which has asked to be heard on this point by the committee. Unfortunately, the majority refused to hear it. However, it was not a dilatory manoeuvre, nor a manoeuvre to save time, the objective was simply to address a substantive issue. Like Test-Achats, we believe that the commercial court is not specialized in consumer disputes. By enclosing the whole collective dispute there, the majority shows a conception of the action class confined to the economic domain alone, which is a pity. My last point concerns the lack of ambition of this project. The evaluation of the 2014 law was sent to us at the beginning of the week. A report on the future of the legal profession was also published a few weeks ago. These interesting documents provide recommendations on the basis of which it would have been possible to make collective action a genuine tool for access to justice for all our citizens. Access to justice has become a real problem for both the middle class and the most vulnerable. The measures adopted by the government in the area of legal aid are not alien to it. This class-action reform was an opportunity to facilitate access to justice for all. She wasn't seized. That is why, in my personal capacity, I will abstain. As for the PS group, it was in favour of extending the action class to SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u110	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this action for collective reparation has been in place since 1 September 2014. At that time, it was for the exclusive benefit of consumers. Last year, the law was evaluated to assess the appropriateness of extending it to other categories of litigants. But it was mainly because of the damage caused by the fipronil crisis and the Dieselgate that the need to extend this protection mechanism to SMEs emerged. The proposed reform responds to these considerations. It makes it possible to rebalance power relations by giving additional resources to SMEs suffering from mass harm. While some are still reluctant to engage in lengthy and costly legal proceedings, this bill will facilitate their access to justice. It also contributes to a better administration of justice, on the one hand, by avoiding the proliferation of individual appeals and, on the other hand, by reducing the risk of conflicting decisions. Collective redress also has the advantage of reducing the administrative burden for SMEs who wish to take legal action. Finally, the retroactive application of the law to 1 September 2014 will allow SMEs to act collectively to obtain compensation for the damage suffered, particularly during the fipronil crisis. The interest of such action in the context of harm to a large number of persons is no longer to be demonstrated. Further expansion of the collective redress action to the benefit of SMEs is obvious. That is why the MR group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u111	Mr President, we are also pleased that this draft law has now been put to the vote and that, in the light of the government's views on economic policy in recent years, we are thus moving towards more B2B protection. Not only do we give protection to private consumers through joint collective redress proceedings, but small businesses also have the same opportunities. It has been our question for a number of years to make that possible. This draft law will extend it for the purposes of collective recovery proceedings. In recent months, for example, the fipronil crisis has made it clear that it is very useful and useful for a number of small companies to join forces and to be able to submit one joint claim for recovery. In the committee, there was a brief discussion on the question of which court should have jurisdiction for actions for collective recovery in the case of SMEs. The question was raised as to whether this could not be done by the General Court of First Instance. However, a clear choice has been made to the court of commerce, for several reasons which I will not go into now. In any case, we welcome the design as it stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u112	Mr President, we have tabled two amendments. I would like to explain this right away. The first amendment aims to include in Article 5 the following: "In Article XVII, 42, Paragraph 2, third paragraph, of the same Code, the words 'and/or to SMEs' shall be inserted between the words 'consumers' and the words'shall be granted'." The second amendment seeks to remove Articles 13 and 14. The aim is to remove the exclusive competence of the court of commerce for claims for collective recovery, so that consumers are not deprived of the right to address themselves to the natural court, the court of first instance. I declare. In its opinion, the Council of State expressed a number of fundamental comments, in particular on the procedural implications which the concept that each category could choose a group representative, rather than one representative for all categories together, would entail. In the explanatory memorandum, it may be perceived that this criticism implies that the problem lies mainly in the fact that two different proceedings relating to the same case can be brought before a different court. This problem will then be dealt with by the court of commerce, which will in future be replaced by the company court, exclusive jurisdiction for the action for collective recovery, regardless of the category that initiates this action. In our view, this perception is not correct, since the above problem, as the delegate has already indicated to the Council of State, I refer to page 34 of the explanatory memorandum, is covered by the rules on coherence. Under these rules, the claims for collective recovery brought before different courts will in any event be dealt with by one and the same judge. The introduction of the exclusive competence of the court of commerce is therefore not an added value. Nor is exclusive competence an added value or a solution to the real criticism of the Council of State. I quote from the explanatory statement, page 34: "Unclear what should be done in the event of a discord between the negotiated agreement with each of the two groups or if only an agreement is reached with one of the two groups and not with the other group." For example, the question is whether the division of the group representation could lead to the application of the exclusion option system to one group and to the other group of the inclusion option system. The second argument that this exclusive competence of the court of commerce should be supported is that that court is the natural court on commercial practices. However, in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law introducing Title 2, action for collective recovery, it is clearly stated that the natural court for claims for collective recovery, on the basis of consumers, is the court of first instance. I quote: 'In fact, the preliminary draft does not provide for any change in the substantive competence of the courts. Consequently, if the plaintiff is not an undertaking, such as the consumer in the present case, the natural court will be the court of first instance, unless the plaintiff chooses to bring the case before the court of commerce after the dispute has arisen." Also in the explanatory memorandum of the current draft law, it is explicitly stated on page 8 that the idea that the group of consumers and those of SMEs are represented by another representative is a choice made by the legislator to take into account the individualities of those groups. That rightful choice of individuality therefore implies that the natural judge should be retained for those groups. Finally, the explanatory statement also states that the choice of the exclusive competence of the court of commerce meets the legislator's wish to ensure, in the recovery of the claim for collective recovery for consumers, a specialization among the magistrates responsible for dealing with such cases and a harmonisation of the relevant case law. That argument too fails. After all, only the court of first instance in Brussels and not the court of commerce in Brussels has acquired the expertise on the claims for collective recovery. Moreover, the court of commerce specialises in commercial law and not in consumer law. There is therefore no risk that this expertise will serve businesses rather than consumers to a much lesser extent. So far, the justification for the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u113	Mr President, for the most part, I will repeat the arguments we put forward in committee. First of all, Ecolo-Groen has been advocating for many years in favour of extending the right of action for collective redress (class action) for SMEs and self-employed persons. Several colleagues referred to the current situation, namely the Fipronil crisis, collective redundancies at ING and those of the self-employed working in an agency. The latter had thus regretted that they could not unite to bring an action against the injustice of restructuring. This extension therefore seemed absolutely necessary for SMEs and independents to be able to defend themselves by collectively organizing themselves against the iniquitous behaviour of certain trading partners, suppliers or customers that were larger than them. For the time being, an isolated small business cannot fight against them with equal arms. In short, as I said in committee, we support the principle of such an extension. However, like several colleagues, we asked the question of the choice of jurisdiction, namely the commercial court. However, we know that, since 2014, it is the court of first instance that deals with all these cases from the consumer's point of view. That is why I believe it is essential to retain that jurisdiction which has been conferred upon it for four years, but we know that you will transfer it to the commercial court. This choice raises many questions, particularly on the part of consumer associations. I am thinking in particular of Test Purchases, which deeply regrets this choice and which had wished to be heard in committee. We supported this request for a hearing, which was rejected by the majority. That is really a pity, since I think it would have been wise to extend the scope of the debate by hearing from stakeholders on the ground, including consumer associations. At the time of the vote in committee, I had abstained - on behalf of my group - on the article transferring jurisdiction to the commercial court. However, as we agree on the principle of extending collective law to SMEs and self-employed people, we will vote in favour of this text today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u114	Mr. Chair, quickly, we also passed the bill before us in committee in a positive way. This extension of the class action to SMEs is a favourable element for us. I would like to point out, as my colleague has done, that the text in question has been referred to on several occasions in the Fipronil committees. It seems to us important to allow the grouping of small and medium-sized enterprises for the purpose of redressing crimes, fraud or misconduct committed by a person. This seems to us to be, at first, a good step. The choice is left between the corporate court and the commercial court. On the business side, SMEs are used to it. Everyone knows the existence of consular judges, and in this particular case it seems to me to be a balance, which is why we supported this bill as it is introduced and will support it in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u115	It is a good thing that the draft was almost unanimously supported in committee and also supported in plenary by most groups, both by the majority and by the opposition. This is due to the shared finding that this draft is necessary for SMEs. Mr Vanden Burre, you have taken a number of examples, such as the fipronil crisis. In committee, I also indicated dieselgate and, today, the Veviba case. These are all the elements that show us that the time has come to extend the collective redress action to SMEs, which has so far been reserved for consumers. As a reminder, as far as consumers are concerned, this mechanism was opened in 2014. Several stakeholders then expressed support for the inclusion of new categories of beneficiaries, in particular to cover the self-employed and SMEs. The report of the evaluation of the Act was also forwarded to Parliament. As a result, you will also be able to see that the bill does indeed address the concerns expressed by our independents and SMEs. Mr Delizée, I have obviously met with the High Council of Independents and SMEs in this context; I can say that they are extremely satisfied with this project and that they intend to promote it. The reform will allow SME victims of damage caused by a company, as a result of breach of one of its contractual obligations, to bring a collective redress action through a group representative to obtain compensation for this damage. While the existing mechanism is extended to SMEs, some necessary adjustments have been made to take account of these specificities. I believe that it is now before the commercial court that this action will have to be brought. I would like to reply to Mr Delizée, who tells us that he will abstain, in particular on this aspect, and I would like to repeat what I said in committee in this respect: today the commercial court is already applying injunctions relating to consumer protection rights. To suggest that these magistrates would not have the knowledge of this type of litigation makes no sense. Moreover - and this is in line with what Mr de Lamotte has said - the bill is consistent with the reform carried out by my colleagues the Ministers of Justice and Economy. The commercial court will become the company court. As a natural judge of the Code of Economic Law, this court will become the natural judge of class actions for SMEs. Finally, I am a little surprised by Mr Delizée's remark. The insinuation that protection would be less in the face of a judge of the commercial court than in the face of a magistrate of the court of first instance and that the independence of the former would be less than that of the latter, could legitimately shock the magistrates. I would like to repeat that to Mr Casier too: this transfer is a response to an observation by the Council of State. In its opinion, the Committee stressed that a number of difficulties could arise from separate proceedings before different courts by a consumer organisation and an organisation representing SMEs. Mrs Dierick asked whether the Farmers' Union could be regarded as a group representative. I can reassure her: according to the spirit of the law, the Farmers' Union, like other representative organisations, is eligible for the Statute. This can be done through either a satellite association, or on the basis of the Royal Decree with the specific criteria, which will complete the bill. In conclusion, Mr President, I think this is an essential measure for our businesses. Small businesses will thus be able to come together effectively and work together in situations where defence in isolation was completely impossible. I really think we're meeting a necessity. We offer an additional tool to our SMEs. We have, of course - and I think that it is also in this that the support goes beyond the majority - to set a number of beacons and to build a project that is balanced so as not to suffer a number of drifts found in other countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u116	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u117	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2907/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2907/4) The draft law has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u118	Amendments tabled: Ingediende amendmenten:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u119	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 13 and 14 • 5 - Youro Casier (2907/5) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u120	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u121	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Pehlivan, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015, an OECD action plan was adopted that strongly modified the way in which tax treaties are negotiated. In summary, the tax treaties that are BEPS proof should at least include a principal purpose test. Minister Reynders has assured us in the committee that all the treaties will be BEPS proof in the future. The treaty with Japan is the first one that Belgium signs that can be called BEPS proof. The treaty with Japan goes even further. It not only has a principal purpose test, it also has a limitation on benefits clause. Japan has also introduced such clauses into treaties with other European countries. This clause is important because only such a clause will allow multinationals to avoid their social obligations in an easy way. They are less likely to abuse the grey areas in legislation and treaties to avoid their tax obligations. Unfortunately, there is an explicit recognition by the government that the extra regulation has only come at the Japanese Government's insistence. For the government, therefore, it appears sufficient that there is only a principal purpose test in the treaties. In view of the increasing social inequality and the increasing concentration of power among a small number of international companies, we do not think that this is enough. We will approve the treaty, but ask the Minister to take the Japanese treaty as an example for all the double taxation treaties that Belgium will conclude in future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u123	Thank you, Mrs Pehlivan. The Minister is not here, so he cannot respond either, but I assume he will take note of your suspicion through the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u124	I also discussed it with him in committee. I know his position, but I wanted to make our position clear again in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u125	For the sake of the record, as it is called. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u126	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2946/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2946/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u127	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u128	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Jef Van den Bergh, Roel Deseyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u129	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (539/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (539/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u130	Mr President, I refer to the written report. I will speak later as representative of the MR Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak on behalf of our group. Mr Dumery normally follows up on this dossier, but she participates in a foreign mission for the Council of Europe. First and foremost, I congratulate the initiators, our colleagues Van den Bergh and Deseyn, on their initiative in this resolution. I believe that everyone agrees that the safety of pedestrians and cyclists in traffic, the so-called weak road users, can be increased. Unfortunately, the word 'weak' is often also very literal. Colleagues, when we look at the figures from last year's Road Safety Barometer, we can see a number of developments. The number of deaths on the ground decreased by 17 to 483 for the years 2016 and 2017 in Belgium. This is mainly because there was a decrease in 24 fatalities in the Flemish region. As far as the number of injuries recorded is concerned, the trend in our country is generally negative. The reduction in the number of injuries has been established in all regions with a global decrease of 5.2 %. In the Flemish region there is even a decrease of as much as 6.9 %. Nevertheless, we remain far removed from the targets set by the States General, namely a maximum of 420 deaths by 2020. This government will continue to take measures to reverse the increasing number of victims of pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists. For example, the Road Safety Improvement Act of 8 February was adopted to tighten up the approach of problem drivers. Minister Van Overtveldt recently announced that the bicycle fee also applies to the longer, more secure route. A new Road Code is also being developed, including the possibility of introducing intersections at which the traffic light jumps on green for all cyclists at the same time. The Flemish government is also fully committed to improving road safety, including through additional investments in safer infrastructure, bike motorways and speeding up the elimination of the black spots. Today we are voting in the Chamber on a resolution aimed at increasing the safety of pedestrians and cyclists in traffic. This resolution advocates all kinds of measures that should have a positive impact on the road safety of these weak road users. The NV-A Group also believes that strict control and punishment policies are necessary, as well as, of course, appropriate punishment. A solution to this is still at hand, in particular the driving licence with points. That is one of the requests made by the authors in the resolution before us. My group will always be committed to improving road safety, both at local, Flemish and federal level. The NV-A Group will therefore adopt this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u132	Above all, I would like to congratulate and thank my colleagues, Jef Van den Bergh and Roel Deseyn, for having tabled this proposal which, beyond the subject, obliges us to reflect on those who are the weakest users of traffic. I would also like to thank my colleague, Inez De Coninck, for his speech. Ladies and gentlemen, today the House is about to vote in favour of a text that is particularly close to my heart, as well as to the whole of our group. This text aims to improve the safety of pedestrians and cyclists in traffic. Pedestrians and cyclists are particularly vulnerable road users. According to the various sources of the SPF Economy, it can be seen that, in the context of the evolution of the number of serious injuries and minor injuries, while their number has, overall, decreased considerably for all road users, it is increasing among pedestrians and cyclists, which is extremely sad. As a result, it is a fact that their share of the number of victims continues to increase, even in Soignies. Let me also point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the vast majority of the victims are in the category of pedestrians and cyclists three times twenty years and over, if I may say so! For example, 35 per cent of all killed pedestrians and 40 per cent of cyclists are over 75 years of age. In other words, there is an urgent need and I welcome the fact that this motion for a resolution calls on the federal government to carry out more studies on the causes of accidents involving pedestrians and cyclists and to link them mainly with concrete policy measures to reduce the number of accidents. In addition, it is also essential to be attentive to the development of intelligent technologies for vehicles, including speed adjustment systems or alcolocks. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution is timely because it alerts us to the extreme need for strong measures, not half-measures. These strong measures will now make it possible to better protect these vulnerable users, cyclists and pedestrians.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u133	Mr President, I would like to thank those Members who have already spoken and expressed their support for this motion for a resolution. It is important for the Chamber to give a signal. It's not new. Over the last few weeks, months and years, we have been reading reports in the newspapers about cyclists and pedestrians who died in our traffic. Each of us here can imagine such an accident, as well as its impact on the family and friends concerned and on an entire city or city. With the proposal for a resolution, Parliament wants to send a strong signal that it is committed to the road safety of the soft road user. After all, both pedestrians and cyclists are still overrepresented in the number of fatal and seriously injured traffic victims and their share is unfortunately increasing. Mrs Inez De Coninck has already said that road safety is improving. Fortunately, the number of road victims is falling, but if we focus more on pedestrians and cyclists in these statistics, we see a disturbing story. I'll give you some figures to illustrate that. The latest official figures date from 2016. At that time, 23% of the fatalities were a soft road user. 149 victims were killed, 11% were cyclists and 12% pedestrians. As many as 36% of the seriously injured traffic victims in 2016 were soft road users. These are almost 1 500 cyclists and pedestrians, who have to stay in the hospital for more than a month after an accident and we are not talking about subsequent rehabilitation. In the case of the slightly injured road victims, this proportion is slightly lower, but we must take due account of the under-recording of the number of slightly injured road users in the statistics. This is evident from any study which compares hospital statistics with official accident statistics. If we look at the long-term evolution, we can see that the number of road deaths since 2009 has fallen by 33%, but that this decline is far less common among soft road users. In the case of cyclists there is a decrease of barely 20% and in the case of pedestrians of 23 %. If we add these figures together, the result is that in recent years the proportion of road users in the total number of road deaths, deaths and serious injuries has increased significantly, by 15% among the road deaths and by as much as 52% among the number of seriously injured traffic victims. If we dig deeper into these figures, we can see that in our society older soft road users are particularly affected and that many pupils and children as soft road users are also affected by road safety. Over the past six months, demand from the public for more safety for soft road users, pedestrians and cyclists has increased exponentially. I do not need to remind you of the mood following recent accidents in Antwerp, for example. Unrested parents started petitions for more conflict-free intersections and charters were signed to ban trucks at certain hours in school environments. In the last week the Gemeentemonitor taught us that most Flemings are mainly concerned when they themselves and especially when their children use the bike. Less than half of the Flemings think he can ride his bike safely in his own neighborhood and two out of three parents are not comfortable in sending his or her child into traffic. All these calls for attention and signals point out to us, politicians, that we need to do even more in this area. Of course, every level of policy will have to take responsibility for this: the municipal and city authorities, the Flemish level, the federal level and not to mention the provinces, which have an important role to play in the field of bicycle ostrades. Many measures can be taken, including at the federal level. Mr De Coninck has already referred to the fact that the legal framework for putting the traffic light on the green for all cyclists at the same time still has to be entered in the Road Code. What we can also initiate is, for example, the accident investigation. We can also respond to the recommendations of the States-General of Road Safety for a higher probability of taking action and a better level of enforcement in order to reduce the risks and hazards on the road. I repeat the objectives: one in three drivers check for alcohol, drugs and seat belts in traffic every year and 40 million drivers check for speed. It is also important to have a policy instrument for the proper recording of the number of checks, and that is what is lacking today. There is certainly room for improvement in this area. We are also looking forward to the Vias study on the driving licence with points. This driving licence could also be an important tool for improving road safety, in addition to the development of technologies and safety technology in vehicles, such as intelligent speed adjustment and the alcohol lock. With the proposal before us, road safety will not suddenly become a dream in our country, but above all it must be a strong signal from the Chamber that we consider the safety of pedestrians and cyclists to be very important and that we want to take further measures to ensure that they are safe on the road. I hope for broad support for the motion for a resolution, as in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u134	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u135	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u136	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Conseil Degroote, Franky Demon, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u137	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Ben Hamou, rapporteur, and Mr Van Hecke, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u138	Mr President, the proposal seeks to amend the law on the integrated police service because, with a view to a number of mergers of police zones, along with some mergers of municipalities in East Flanders, we could face complex situations. The municipality of Nevele must in particular dilute from the police zone to join the new zone Deinze. That application was made at the end of December 2017. This means that an RB should be published with new area descriptions of the new police zones. The new police council must therefore be elected within the month. Given that there are municipal elections within a few months and that new police councils should be installed as of 1 January 2019, this would lead to complex situations. This would also require the creation of posts for chief of police, police secretary, accounting officers and so on. To avoid all this, there is this amendment of the law on the integrated police, whereby the existing municipal councils will exercise the powers for the remaining months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u139	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u140	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2945/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2945/7) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee to amend the law of 7 December 1998 on the organisation of an integrated police service, structured at two levels." The Commission's proposal to amend the law of 7 December 1998 on the organisation of an integrated police service, structured at two levels.' The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u141	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u142	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Koen Metsu, Franky Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u143	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u144	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u145	Mr President, as a follow-up to the previous proposal for a law to ensure the functioning of police zones during the merger of communes, it seems logical to us to settle the consequences of these mergers in the rescue zones. Our group will therefore support this text. I would like to recall what my colleague Philippe Pivin said in committee, namely that we do not want the adoption of this text to open the door to a discussion on the key to the allocation of federal funding to emergency areas. As the author of the proposal in committee has expressly pointed out, the question of a possible adjustment of the financing of the relief zones is not provided for in the government agreement. In addition to this reminder, we are very much in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u146	Mr President, we are indeed reading this bill in exactly the same spirit as the previous one, explained by Mr Degroote. It is true that we are talking about another legal personality, namely the areas of aid. I would also like to reassure Mrs de Coster, in the sense that the committee clearly and explicitly stated that the federal donation will not be affected, but only the municipal donations that will be transferred from zone A to zone B. We must be aware that the voluntary merger of some Flemish municipalities at present will have an effect on federal regulations. I am very pleased, because this is very urgent. After all, we must be able to prepare ourselves by 1 January 2019. I was pleased to note that this proposal was widely supported and supported, although it has little impact on Wallonia at this very moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u147	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u148	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2970/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2970/3) The bill has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u149	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u150	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 1 February 2018, a call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 6 February 2018 for the mandates of first and second French-speaking alternate member of the Standing Committee on the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of February 1, 2018, a call for candidates for the terms of first and second francophone alternate members of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services was published in the Belgian Monitor on February 6, 2018. No applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. No applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2018, I propose that you publish a second appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of first and second French-speaking alternate member of the Standing Committee on the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2018, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a second call for candidates for the term of first and second francophone alternate member of the Standing Committee for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u151	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 8 February 2018, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 12 February 2018 for the mandates of member of the Management Committee, of the Knowledge Centre and of the Data Protection Authority's Dispute Chamber. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 8 February 2018, an appeal to candidates for the terms of office of members of the Management Committee, the Knowledge Centre and the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority was published in the Belgian Monitor on 12 February 2018. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: For the mandates of a member of the Management Committee For terms of office as a member of the Management Committee
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u152	- Heer Charles Cuvelliez (F), oprichter ′′CYC2′′, gasprofessor aan de ′′ Ecole Polytechnique de Bruxelles′′ ULB; - Ms Charlotte Dereppe (F), adviser in the cabinet of the Secretary of State for Privacy (in second subordinate order); - Mr Koen Gorissen (N), Member of the Supervisory Body on Police Information; - Ms Hielke Hijmans (N), independent European Privacy Law expert; - Ms Joëlle Jouret (F), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission; - Mr Romain Robert (F), Legal Adviser to the European Data Protection Supervisor; - Mr David Stevens (N), company lawyer (data protection officer) at The Nielsen Company bvba; - Mr Jesse Stroobants (N), group manager of the Human Sciences group at KULeuven; - Mr Brendan Van Alsenoy (N), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission; - Ms Veerle Van Crombrugge (N), Director of Privacy in the Cabinet of the Secretary of State for Privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u153	- Mr Charles Cuvelliez (F), founder ′′CYC2′′, visiting professor at the Ecole Polytechnique in Brussels, ULB; - Ms. Charlotte Dereppe (F), Counsellor in the Office of the Secretary of State for Privacy (in 2nd sub-order); - Mr. Koen Gorissen (N), member of the Police Information Review Body; - Ms. Hielke Hijmans (N), independent expert on European privacy law; - Ms. Joëlle Jouret (F), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission; - Mr Romain Robert (F), Legal Adviser to the European Data Protection Supervisor; - M. David Stevens (N), juriste d’entreprise (data protection officer) chez The Niesel Company sprl; - Mr Jesse Stroobants (N), Director of the Human Sciences Group at ′′KULeuven′′; - Mr. Brendan Van Alsenoy (N), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission; - Ms. Veerle Van Crombrugge (N), Director of Privacy at the Office of the Secretary of State for Privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u154	- Heer Charles Cuvelliez (F), oprichter ′′CYC2′′, gasprofessor aan de ′′ Ecole Polytechnique de Bruxelles′′ ULB; - Mr Dirk De Bot (N), independent consultant and trainer on data protection and e-government; - Ms Charlotte Dereppe (F), Counselor in the Cabinet of the Secretary of State for Privacy; - Mr Koen Gorissen (N), Member of the Supervisory Body on Police Information; - Ms Hielke Hijmans (N), independent European Privacy Law expert; - mevrouw Alexandra Jaspar (F), head of data protection office bij bpost; - Ms Joëlle Jouret (F), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission; - mevrouw Els Kindt (N), titular and lecturer aan het Centre for IT and IP law; - Mr Jan Steenlant (N), Deputy Secretary of the National Labour Council; - Mr David Stevens (N), company lawyer (data protection officer) at The Nielsen Company bvba; - Mr Brendan Van Alsenoy (N), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission; - Mr Eddy Van der Stock (N), Managing Director-President of the Flemish ICT organisation vzw.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u155	- Mr Charles Cuvelliez (F), founder ′′CYC2′′, visiting professor at the Ecole Polytechnique in Brussels, ULB; - Mr. Dirk De Bot (N), an independent consultant and trainer on data protection and governance matters; - Ms. Charlotte Dereppe (F), Counsellor in the Office of the Secretary of State for Privacy; - Mr. Koen Gorissen (N), member of the Police Information Review Body; - Ms. Hielke Hijmans (N), independent expert on European privacy law; - Ms. Alexandra Jaspar (F), head of data protection office at bpost; - Ms. Joëlle Jouret (F), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission; - Mme Els Kindt (N), titular and lecturer au Centre for IT and IP law; - Mr. Jan Steelant (N), Deputy Secretary of the National Labour Council; - M. David Stevens (N), juriste d’entreprise (data protection officer) chez The Niesel Company sprl; - Mr. Brendan Van Alsenoy (N), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission; - Mr. Eddy Van der Stock (N), Chief Executive Officer, Vlaamse ICT organizatie vzw.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u156	- Heer Charles Cuvelliez (F), oprichter ′′CYC2′′, gasprofessor aan de ′′ Ecole Polytechnique de Bruxelles′′ ULB; - Mr Dirk De Bot (N), independent consultant and trainer on data protection and e-government; - Ms Charlotte Dereppe (F), adviser in the cabinet of the Secretary of State for Privacy (in the first subordinate order); - Ms Joëlle Jouret (F), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission; - Mr David Stevens (N), company lawyer (data protection officer) at The Nielsen Company bvba; - Ms Veerle Van Crombrugge (N), Director of Privacy in the Cabinet of the Secretary of State for Privacy; - Mr Peter Van den Eynde (N), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u157	- Mr Charles Cuvelliez (F), founder ′′CYC2′′, visiting professor at the Ecole Polytechnique in Brussels, ULB; - Mr. Dirk De Bot (N), an independent consultant and trainer on data protection and governance matters; - Ms. Charlotte Dereppe (F), Counsellor in the Office of the Secretary of State for Privacy (in first sub-order); - Ms. Joëlle Jouret (F), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission; - M. David Stevens (N), juriste d’entreprise (data protection officer) chez The Niesel Company sprl; - Ms. Veerle Van Crombrugge (N), Director of Privacy at the Office of the Secretary of State for Privacy; - Mr. Peter Van den Eynde (N), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u158	- Heer Charles Cuvelliez (F), oprichter ′′CYC2′′, gasprofessor aan de ′′ Ecole Polytechnique de Bruxelles′′ ULB; - Ms Cédrine Morlière (F/N), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission; - Mr Romain Robert (F), Legal Adviser to the European Data Protection Supervisor; - Ms Veerle Van Crombrugge (N), Director of Privacy in the Cabinet of the Secretary of State for Privacy; - Mr Peter Van den Eynde (N), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u159	- Mr Charles Cuvelliez (F), founder ′′CYC2′′, visiting professor at the Ecole Polytechnique in Brussels, ULB; - Ms. Cédrine Morlière (F/N), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission; - Mr Romain Robert (F), Legal Adviser to the European Data Protection Supervisor; - Ms. Veerle Van Crombrugge (N), Director of Privacy at the Office of the Secretary of State for Privacy; - Mr. Peter Van den Eynde (N), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u160	- Mr Willem Debeuckelaere (N), Chairman of the Privacy Commission; - Mr Dirk De Bot (N), independent consultant and trainer on data protection and e-government; - Mr Koen Gorissen (N), Member of the Supervisory Body on Police Information; - Ms Audrey Henry (F), Counselor of Justice in the Cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs; - Ms Hielke Hijmans (N), independent European Privacy Law expert; - mevrouw Alexandra Jaspar (F), head of data protection office bij bpost; - Mr Philippe Vande Castele (F/N), lawyer at the counter in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u161	- Mr. Willem Debeuckelaere (N), Chair of the Privacy Commission; - Mr. Dirk De Bot (N), an independent consultant and trainer on data protection and governance matters; - Mr. Koen Gorissen (N), member of the Police Information Review Body; - Ms. Audrey Henry (F), Justice Advisor in the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs; - Ms. Hielke Hijmans (N), independent expert on European privacy law; - Ms. Alexandra Jaspar (F), head of data protection office at bpost; - Mr. Philippe Vande Castele (F/N), lawyer at the Antwerp Bar. For the mandates of a member of the Knowledge Centre For terms as a member of the Knowledge Centre - Mr David Baele (N), Head of Mission of the Administrative Simplification Service, set up by the Prime Minister's Chancery; - Mr Christophe Boeraeve (F), attorney at the Brussels Bar (Law right) (in subordinate order); - Mr Dirk De Bot (N), independent consultant and trainer on data protection and e-government (in subordinate order); - Mr Yves-Alexandre de Montjoye (F), lecturer at Imperial College London; - Mr Frank De Smet (N), adviser to the medical board of the Federation of Christian Mutualities, deputy member of the Privacy Commission; - Mr Michel Fourman (F), official at the Foreign Affairs Office; - Mr Koen Gorissen (N), Member of the Supervisory Body on Police Information; - Ms Hielke Hijmans (N), independent European Privacy Law expert; - Ms Joëlle Jouret (F), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission; - mevrouw Els Kindt (N), titular and lecturer aan het Centre for IT and IP law; - Heer Alain Loute (F), reader bij het ′′Centre d'éthique médicale′′′ van de ′′Université catholique de Lille′′′; - Mr Jo Pierson (N), Professor at the Faculty of Economic and Social Sciences of the VUB; - Mr Frank Ponsaert (N), Managing Director of the Ministry of Health; - Mr Bart Preneel (N), Professor at the KULeuven; - Mr Frank Robben (N), Administrator-General at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security and the eHealth Platform in Brussels, member of the Privacy Commission; - Mr Romain Robert (F), Legal Adviser to the European Data Protection Supervisor; - Mr Frank Schuermans (N), Advocate General at the Court of Appeal in Ghent, Deputy Member of the Privacy Commission; - Mr Jan Steenlant (N), Deputy Secretary of the National Labour Council; - Mrs Aurélie Van der Perre (F), data protection officer for the notaries; - Mr Serge Vermeir (N), Information Security Adviser at the Ministry of the Flemish Community; - Mr Gert Vermeulen (N), Professor at the Faculty of Law and Criminology of the Ugent, member of the Privacy Committee; Mrs An Vijverman (N), attorney at the Leuven Bar; - Mr Nicolas Waeyaert (N), Director-General for Statistics at the FPS Economy, SMEs, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Energy; - Ms Séverine Waterbley (F), Director-General of the FPS Economy, SMEs, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Energy, member of the Privacy Commission (in subordinate order). - Mr. David Baele (N), Head of Mission at the Administrative Simplification Service, established in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister; - Mr. Christophe Boeraeve (F), lawyer at the Brussels Bar (Law right) (in subsidiary order); - Mr. Dirk De Bot (N), an independent consultant and trainer for data protection and governance matters (in subsidiary order); - Mr. Yves-Alexandre de Montjoye (F), Senior Lecturer at Imperial College London; - Mr. Frank De Smet (N), medical adviser to the Medical Directorate of Christian Mutualities, alternate member of the Privacy Commission; - Mr. Michel Fourman (F), official at the FPS Foreign Affairs; - Mr. Koen Gorissen (N), member of the Police Information Review Body; - Ms. Hielke Hijmans (N), independent expert on European privacy law; - Ms. Joëlle Jouret (F), Legal Adviser to the Privacy Commission; - Mme Els Kindt (N), titular and lecturer au Centre for IT and IP law; - Mr. Alain Loute (F), Senior Lecturer at the Centre for Medical Ethics at the Catholic University of Lille; - Mr. Jo Pierson (N), Senior Professor, Faculty of Economic and Social Sciences, ′′VUB′′; - Mr. Frank Ponsaert (N), head of the business "ivis4health" sprl; - Mr. Bart Preneel (N), regular professor at ′′KULeuven′′; - Mr Frank Robben (N), Director-General of the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale et de la eHealth-platform in Brussels, Member of the Commission; - Mr Romain Robert (F), Legal Adviser to the European Data Protection Supervisor; - Mr. Frank Schuermans (N), Advocate General of the Ghent Court of Appeal, alternate member of the Privacy Commission; - Mr. Jan Steelant (N), Deputy Secretary of the National Labour Council; - Ms. Aurélie Van der Perre (F), data protection officer for the notariat; - Mr. Serge Vermeir (N), Information Security Adviser, Ministry of the Flemish Community; - Mr. Gert Vermeulen (N), Professor, Faculty of Law and Criminology, Member of the Privacy Commission; - Ms. An Vijverman (N), a lawyer at the Louvain Bar; - Mr. Nicolas Waeyaert (N), Director-General for Statistics of the FPS Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes and Energy; - Ms Séverine Waterbley (F), Director-General of the SPF Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes and Energy, Member of the Commission Privacy (in subsidiary order). For the mandates of a member of the dispute chamber For terms of office as a member of the litigious chamber
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u162	- Mr Christophe Boeraeve (F), attorney at the Brussels Bar (Law right); - Mr Willem Debeuckelaere (N), Chairman of the Privacy Commission (in subordinate order); - Mr Frank De Smet (N), adviser to the medical board of the Federation of Christian Mutualities, deputy member of the Privacy Commission; Mrs Julie Feld (F), Deputy Prosecutor of the King's Office in Brussels; - Mr Koen Gorissen (N), Member of the Supervisory Body on Police Information; - Ms Hielke Hijmans (N), independent European Privacy Law expert; - mevrouw Alexandra Jaspar (F), head of data protection office bij bpost; - mevrouw Els Kindt (N), titular and lecturer aan het Centre for IT and IP law; - Heer Yves Poullet (F), emeritus hoogleraar van de ′′University of Namur′′; - Mr Frank Robben (N), Administrator-General at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security and the eHealth Platform in Brussels, member of the Privacy Commission; - Mr Romain Robert (F), Legal Adviser to the European Data Protection Supervisor; - Mr Jelle Stasijns (N), lawyer at the desk at Dendermonde, assistant N-VA group; - Mr Dirk Van der Kelen (N), Chairman of the East Flanders Court of First Instance, Deputy Chairman of the Privacy Commission (in subordinate order); - Mrs Aurélie Van der Perre (F), data protection officer for the notaries; - Mr Gert Vermeulen (N), Professor at the Faculty of Law and Criminology of the Ugent, member of the Privacy Commission (in subordinate order); Mrs An Vijverman (N), attorney at the Leuven Bar; - Ms Séverine Waterbley (F), Director-General of the FPS Economy, SMEs, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Energy, member of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u163	- Mr. Christophe Boeraeve (F), lawyer at the Brussels Bar (Law right); - Mr. Willem Debeuckelaere (N), Chair of the Privacy Commission (in subsidiary order); - Mr. Frank De Smet (N), medical adviser to the Medical Directorate of Christian Mutualities, alternate member of the Privacy Commission; - Ms. Julie Feld (F), Deputy Prosecutor of the King's Office at the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office; - Mr. Koen Gorissen (N), member of the Police Information Review Body; - Ms. Hielke Hijmans (N), independent expert on European privacy law; - Mme Alexandra Jaspar (F), head of data protection office chez bpost; - Mme Els Kindt (N), titular and lecturer au Centre for IT and IP law; - Mr. Yves Poullet (F), Professor Emeritus of the University of Namur; - Mr Frank Robben (N), Director-General of the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale et de la eHealth-platform in Brussels, Member of the Commission; - Mr Romain Robert (F), Legal Adviser to the European Data Protection Supervisor; - Mr. Jelle Stasijns (N), a lawyer at the bar in Termonde, a university collaborator in the N-VA group; - Mr. Dirk Van der Kelen (N), President of the East Flanders Court of First Instance, Deputy Chairman of the Privacy Commission (in subsidiary order); - Ms. Aurélie Van der Perre (F), data protection officer for the notariat; - Mr. Gert Vermeulen (N), Professor, Faculty of Law and Criminalology, Member of the Privacy Commission (in subsidiary order); - Ms. An Vijverman (N), a lawyer at the Louvain Bar; - Ms Séverine Waterbley (F), Director-General of the SPF Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes and Energy, Member of the Commission Privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u164	- Mr Willem Debeuckelaere (N), Chairman of the Privacy Commission (in subordinate order); - Mr Koen Gorissen (N), Member of the Supervisory Body on Police Information; - Ms Hielke Hijmans (N), independent European Privacy Law expert; - mevrouw Alexandra Jaspar (F), head of data protection office bij bpost; - Mr Jelle Stasijns (N), lawyer at the desk at Dendermonde, assistant N-VA group; - Mr Dirk Van der Kelen (N), Chairman of the East Flanders Court of First Instance, Deputy Chairman of the Privacy Commission; - Mr Gert Vermeulen (N), professor at the Faculty of Law and Criminology of the Ugent, member of the Privacy Commission (in subordinate order).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u165	- Mr. Willem Debeuckelaere (N), Chair of the Privacy Commission (in subsidiary order); - Mr. Koen Gorissen (N), member of the Police Information Review Body; - Ms. Hielke Hijmans (N), independent expert on European privacy law; - Ms. Alexandra Jaspar (F), head of data protection office at bpost; - Mr. Jelle Stasijns (N), a lawyer at the bar in Termonde, a university collaborator in the N-VA group; - Mr. Dirk Van der Kelen (N), President of the Court of First Instance of East Flanders, Deputy Chairman of the Privacy Commission; - Mr Gert Vermeulen (N), Professor at the Faculty of Law and Criminology of the Ugent, Member of the Privacy Commission (in subsidiary order).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u166	- Mr Wim Barthier (N), security officer at the National Bank of Belgium; - Mr Christophe Boeraeve (F), attorney at the Brussels Bar (Law right); - Mr Frank De Smet (N), adviser to the medical board of the Federation of Christian Mutualities, deputy member of the Privacy Commission; - Mr Bart Preneel (N), Professor at the KULeuven; - Mr Frank Robben (N), Administrator-General at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security and the eHealth Platform in Brussels, member of the Privacy Commission; - Mr Serge Vermeir (N), Information Security Adviser at the Ministry of the Flemish Community; - Ms Séverine Waterbley (F), Director-General of the FPS Economy, SMEs, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Energy, member of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u167	- Mr. Wim Barthier (N), security officer at the National Bank of Belgium; - Mr. Christophe Boeraeve (F), lawyer at the Brussels Bar (Law right); - Mr. Frank De Smet (N), medical adviser to the Medical Directorate of Christian Mutualities, alternate member of the Privacy Commission; - Mr. Bart Preneel (N), regular professor at ′′KULeuven′′; - Mr Frank Robben (N), Director-General of the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale et de la eHealth-platform in Brussels, Member of the Commission; - Mr. Serge Vermeir (N), Information Security Adviser, Ministry of the Flemish Community; - Ms Séverine Waterbley (F), Director-General of the SPF Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes and Energy, Member of the Commission Privacy. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2018, I propose to deliver the curriculum vitae of candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2018, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u168	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u169	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Youro Casier on Article 5. (2907/5) Vote on amendment No. 4 of Youro Caser to Article 5. (2907/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[42]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u170	Mr President, I abstained on this vote and I will do so on all the votes today because I am pairing up with my colleague Emmanuel Burton, who is suffering.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u171	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Youro Casier for the omission of Articles 13 and 14. (2907/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Youro Caser to delete Articles 13 and 14. (2907/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u172	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 13 and 14 were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 13 and 14 were adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u173	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2907/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2907/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u174	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2946/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2946/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u175	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (539/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (539/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u176	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 3/1(n). (2922/12) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 3/1(n). (2922/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck on article 15. (2922/12) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck to Article 15. (2922/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u177	Yes [[29]] Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck to Article 16. (2922/12) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Catherine Fonck on article 16. (2922/12) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u178	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck to Article 17. (2922/12) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Catherine Fonck on article 17. (2922/12) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u179	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 17 was adopted. The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 17 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u180	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 75 Yes No. 31 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2922/13) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2922/13) Mr Top voted against, Mr Vermeulen and Mrs De Coster voted in favour. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2945/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1945/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u182	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2970/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2970/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-22-54-plenair-ip200x.u183	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 29 March 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, March 29, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 29 March 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 29 March 2018, at 2.15 p.m.
