ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u1	Minister, I would like to make it clear to colleagues that you can stay until 5 p.m. Joined questions No 22802 and No 24612 by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen, as well as his question No 23515, are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u2	Madam Chair, may I say hello to the chairman of the committee, if you ever see him. Indeed, I haven't had the opportunity in a long time. Maybe you see him more often than I do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u3	I won't miss it, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u4	You never know. That would, in any case, be interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u5	Yet it seems to me that he sometimes makes a fixation on you. That's weird! I mean, be it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u6	Minister, there have been peaceful political protests in Togo and Senegal over the last few months and weeks. Thousands of people came to Senegal to protest what they saw as dictatorial behaviour by the President. The President had several opposition leaders arrested in the run-up to the elections that will take place in 2019. The protesters are also angry, because growing prosperity often does not benefit everyone. Some parts of the country do not have better access to social services and others do. In Togo there have been protests against the regime of President Gnassingbe for several months now, whose family has been governing Togo for more than 50 years. Unfortunately, these protests have already killed a few dozen people. However, the civilian population and the opposition continue to protest peacefully. Tens of thousands keep coming out on the street. It is striking that many women are also part of the protest movement and have a strong influence on the demands for change in Togo. It is often women who are most affected by poor governance and higher social costs. Minister, there are protests in these two West African countries, albeit from a completely different perspective. In Senegal it is about protecting democracy, while in Togo it is about the possible introduction of democracy. In both countries, demonstrators are convinced that more democracy will give them better opportunities in their society. I have some questions about how Belgium responds to all these developments. The protests in those countries combine discontent about social inequality with the demand for more participation and more democracy. How do you see the positive role of Belgium and the EU as the political and economic partners of West Africa for the popular desire for greater democracy and social justice? You have stated on several occasions, including in your policy paper, that you believe in a stronger and greater role for regional organisations in Africa. How do you see their role as mediator in protests for more democracy? Where do you think they're short?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u7	Mrs Pehlivan, the socio-political tensions in various regions of the African continent, such as Togo and Senegal, are often external signs of frustration on the part of their people and, above all, on the part of young people. The demands are different and diverse, ranging from more democratic space to socio-economic greed. For us, it is important that the right to peaceful speeches is guaranteed and that the aspirations of the people are taken into account. In West Africa, the situation developed more positively over the past decade. Citizens now dare to speak out for their opinions and arguments, even though there is always room for improvement. Belgium and the European Union are supporting programmes in various countries in West Africa which are mainly aimed at providing the population, in particular young people and women, with access to economic activities that create jobs, including involving and strengthening the private sector. In this way something is being done about the problems and frustrations of population groups. For questions on specific programmes, I refer to my colleague in Development Cooperation, who was recently in Dakar. The regional organizations, in this case the Economic Community of West African States and the West African Economic and Monetary Union, have an important role to play. I am thinking, for example, of the very constructive mediation of ECOWAS during the crisis in Gambia, which I mentioned last week with the Gambian Minister of Finance. We want regional organisations to play an even greater role; regional institutions must be able to act in the interests of the citizens. Belgium is committed to this, together with the European Union. It is also in this spirit that the EU and the Member States are seeking to refocus the partnership with the African Union and the sub-regional organisations that are part of it. This is part of the post-Cotonou debate and was one of the dossiers that I defended at the ministerial conferences that preceded the AU-EU Summit in Abidjan in 2017. I will defend the same position when I visit Senegal and Gambia at the beginning of April, so next week. Even if there are positive developments, there is still room for improvement. That will be our position in the talks with our partners on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer and for your commitment to tackle the problem. I'm glad you care too. For my group, it is clear that we must establish the link between trade policy and the social unrest in West Africa. We have to acknowledge that. It is also logical that if European subsidised food is dumped on markets of fragile countries, where the agricultural sector is an important employer, which has a major impact on employment. More and more farmers are moving to the cities, where there are not enough jobs. This is a powder keg for conflicts in countries where social inequality has increased significantly. There is another way, Minister. As you have said on several occasions, African countries are organising themselves in regional partnerships. The African Union is also becoming more relevant. Recently 44 African governments have signed a treaty to make the whole continent a free trade area in the long term. That's an all-African initiative. It is therefore best that the trade agreements with Africa are negotiated as widely as possible, no longer between the EU and one African country, but with countries that already cooperate economically and politically. If we want ECOWAS and other regional organisations to have a greater impact, we in Europe must also give them that recognition in economic and diplomatic terms, in addition to the initiatives you will already take.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u9	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns child soldiers. Over the last two years, child soldiers have been deployed in 18 conflicts. In at least 46 countries children are recruited as soldiers. These are some of the findings of the World Index for Child Soldiers, recently established by the United Nations, to monitor the use of child soldiers in conflicts. The World Index for Child Soldiers was concerned about its findings and therefore, in collaboration with Unicef, UNU and the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, investigated how to reduce the number of child soldiers. Their finding was that the great focus on radicalisation is limited and misleading. They argue that, by basing prevention solely on this problem, the problem cannot be adequately addressed. The authors of the report Cradled by Conflict: Children in Contemporary Conflict stress that radicalism plays a very small role in the reasons why most children are involved in a war. This is primarily about choices or lack of them for personal security, access to food and income. These are choices they make in contexts where members of an armed group or an army often seems to be the only realistic choice for desperate children. Minister, I have a few questions for you. In what way has Belgium committed itself to the problem? How often does the fate of child soldiers come on the agenda of the UN Human Rights Council? Is sufficient attention paid to factors other than radicalism as a cause? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u10	The issue of child soldiers is regularly addressed in the UN Human Rights Council and the UN Security Council. Belgium is always very committed to this important problem. In recent years, our country has taken various initiatives to shape this commitment. For example, in February 2017, in Brussels, we organised the international conference for the child in armed conflict, with Her Majesty Queen Mathilde. Also in the context of the UN institutions in New York and Geneva, our country is very concerned about the issue of children in armed conflicts and we regularly organise information sessions, conferences or debates on this issue. In February 2018, I opened an event in New York for the eighteenth anniversary of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which focused on, among other things, a further international awareness building and support for measures on the issue of child soldiers. Furthermore, within the framework of the Human Rights Council in Geneva, our country was co-initiator for the creation of the group of friends that aims to integrate the issue of child soldiers into all the activities of the Human Rights Council. In the framework of the last session of the Human Rights Council, we also support the organisation of a side event on children in armed conflicts, with the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative, on the theme of the rehabilitation of child soldiers with a focus on the needs of girls. In financial terms, too, our country has already shown a significant commitment. Among other things, Belgium finances UNICEF's reporting and control mechanism, which collects information on violations of the child's rights in armed conflicts. For 2018, EUR 1 million of the humanitarian aid budget was released for this mechanism in the Central African Republic, Mali, South Sudan, Somalia and the Palestinian territories. If, as I hope, Belgium is elected to the Security Council on 8 June, our country will have to chair some of the subsidiary committees of the UN Security Council. Given the Belgian commitment to the issue of child soldiers, there is a good chance that Belgium will succeed Sweden as chairman of the Special Committee of the Security Council for Child Soldiers. All these initiatives address a wide range of aspects related to the recruitment of child soldiers and their reintegration. Radicalisation is only a small part of this. At the heart of our approach is the child's vulnerable position, particularly in the event of armed conflicts, as well as convincing both state and non-state actors to stop using minors for armed combat and to apply concrete measures to protect the child, including in the field of education. I said it in committee. For the first time, Belgium is faced with children in armed conflicts, namely the foreign fighters who can return from Syria and Iraq. That is also a very special matter. I asked for an exchange of views with European colleagues, but also with the representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who is responsible for such situations. This is the first time that, in relation to children in armed conflict, it is not just about countries in Africa, for example, but also about our own country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u11	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your commitment and your commitment. As one of the richest parts of the world, it is our duty to help other continents as far as possible, so that children do not take up arms to survive out of despair and hopelessness. It is also our duty not to deny those other continents the means to give their children the best opportunities. The conditions in which children live also determine whether they will listen to radical voices. So the problem is not only abroad, it also has an impact within our borders. After all, children who are desperate or do not see any other way out will be much more easily guided by fanatics and engage in violence. Children who believe in the future, even in their own future, will reject fanatical ideas much more often. We must continue to invest in this. After all, they are the future, not just here for the world. We must continue to invest in children.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u12	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, for many months the Turkish President himself has accused European Union countries of "hosting terrorists". The Ankara regime pushed this infamous logic a step further by publishing in this month of February a list of "terrorists" wanted for their dangerousness and for which a reward "can go up to a million Turkish pounds" is proposed. On reading this list, it appears that the Turkish government, like other despotic states in the world, is taking advantage of this list of criminals artificially sought with the names of well-known political opponents, some of whom are nationals of countries of the European Union and, sometimes, of our country. On 24 February, at a security conference in Munich, Germany, a Turkish-born environmental MP was intimidated by Turkish police officers taking part in the same event. He had to resort to police protection to avoid further incidents with the Turkish delegation. That is to say the state of tension and the seriousness of the interference that Turkey is currently allowing here in Europe. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what are the recent diplomatic initiatives that you and your services have unilaterally initiated with the Turkish government or its representatives to denounce Turkey's unacceptable attitude? How many Belgian nationals are currently affected by this blacklist of false terrorists? I insist on this term because links unite Belgium and Turkey to deal with the "real terrorists" who transit through Turkey to Iraq or Syria. Are you going to ask for the withdrawal of Belgian nationals who have no connection with a terrorist activity from this list? What specific protection are you planning to offer to Belgian nationals who would be affected by these threats – in collaboration with your colleague in charge of the Interior? Have you spoken with your European counterparts in order to coordinate a common attitude to this manifest Turkish interference?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u13	Mr Minister, I would like to address the same issue as my colleague Mr Hellings, but I would like to point out the particular case of a Belgian citizen whose head is put at a price – as is the case for all the other people on this list. It is with great concern that we have learned of the decision of the Turkish State to place the Belgian citizen Bahar Kimyongür on the list of the most wanted terrorists, with the promise of a reward of 214 000 euros for any information leading to his capture. This is a serious matter because, on the one hand, the Turkish State grants immunity in a decree to any civilian, whatever the nature of his actions, when he acts in the name of anti-terrorism to prevent an attempt to overthrow the government – which is tantamount to giving carte blanche for this price, to do anything – and, on the other hand, many opponents of the Turkish State have been killed or physically assaulted in recent years, including in Europe. Let us recall that Bahar Kimyongür was acquitted for the alleged acts of terrorism in the so-called DHKP-C case and that, despite the pressure of Turkey and the assistance given to it by several European States, including Belgium, his arrest and extradition have always been refused by the courts of the various countries where this has been attempted. Justice has clearly established that the information work carried out by Mr. Kimyongür is a matter of freedom of opinion and cannot be equated with acts of terror. On 22 August 2014, Interpol officially withdrew the red notice for this Belgian national. Today, therefore, the Turkish State is returning to the offensive and one can only worry about this measure in terms of democratic rights. Minister, what is the official position of the government following this decision to charge the head of a Belgian citizen? What measures are being taken by the government, not only for its protection, but also for Turkey? More specifically, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, do you intend to formally request Turkey to remove Mr. Kimyongür from this list? If so, what will be the government's reaction to Turkey's refusal? Do you intend to bring this issue to the European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand and hear your concerns about the pressure and intimidation exerted by Turkey on European Union nationals. You also denounce the Turkish authorities' interference in the countries of the European Union, as illustrated by an incident that took place in Munich on 24 February. I have no specific information on what happened at this conference and, therefore, I will refrain from commenting on these facts. However, in general, I am, like you, concerned about Ankara's attempts to interfere through various channels, particularly since the failed attempt of the coup d'état of July 2016, an attempt clearly condemned by the European Union, including Belgium. But since then, Turkey has established a state of emergency and, as you know, my services and I have shared with our Turkish interlocutors our concerns in this regard on numerous occasions. The fact that many of our citizens are of Turkish origin does not, of course, allow Ankara to exert pressure or intimidation on our territory. This message was further conveyed through political consultations held in Ankara in November by my administration. I have had the opportunity to share this with my Turkish counterpart on a number of occasions, and it is clear that we will come back to this issue on a regular basis. With regard to Mr. Bahar Kimyongür, our Ambassador in Ankara took the opportunity of a recent meeting with the Turkish Minister of Justice to also express our concern. Moreover, as the Minister of Justice stated in this case, there is no legal possibility for Belgium to prevent Turkey from criminally prosecuting certain persons. An acquittal in Belgium is not enforceable against Turkey. My colleague, the Minister of Justice, has also already indicated that Belgium would, however, oppose the fact that the measures taken in Turkey have an impact on Belgian territory, apart from the applicable and strictly supervised judicial cooperation mechanisms, in particular by the impossibility for Belgium to extradite its nationals. The question of possible protection to be granted to Mr Bahar Kimyongür concerns in the first place the Crisis Centre and therefore the Minister of the Interior. I invite you to inquire directly with him. More generally, we are working in this context by being in regular contact not only with our Turkish counterparts but also with the Turkish Embassy in Brussels. On several occasions, we have already been able to express our reaction to a number of pressures on European Union nationals, in particular Belgians with dual nationality on Belgian territory. For the rest, I do confirm that we cannot share Turkey's analysis of the distribution of lists such as the one on which Mr Kimyongür's name was taken. This reaction was also communicated to the Turkish authorities. For the rest, I remain convinced that both the President of the European Council and the President of the European Commission, Mr. Tusk and Juncker, have already had the opportunity to share this same reaction with President Erdogan, whom they have just met on the 26th in Varna.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u15	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what Turkey did last 24 February in Munich, it is quite capable of doing one day here in Brussels, against political opponents, who are Belgian citizens but often from the Turkish diaspora. The pressure on nationals recalls the problem of dual nationality. We have discussed this at length in other cases, as in the case of a Moroccan national who also has dual nationality. Mr. Van Hees spoke of a Belgian national who also has dual nationality. These countries, Morocco and Turkey, refuse to withdraw Turkish or Moroccan nationality, as the case may be. In this case, this should not only concern Belgian nationals. A method to be devised at European level would be to ensure that these European citizens, who were born in Europe, are educated there, have the nationality of European countries and are full members of our community, are not subjected to such interference, pressure and threats on European soil, or in general in the world. This is a real problem, and it will have to be addressed. The real answer can only be European. The 500 million Europeans and their representatives can exert considerable pressure, both political and economic, on Turkey, which will always be our neighbour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u16	Mr Minister, I take note of your replies, in particular the fact that the case of Bahar Kimyongür was mentioned personally by the Belgian ambassador to Turkey. The Minister of Justice, who has already responded to this case, says that there is no legal possibility. I understand that the Minister of Justice is disarmed, but this is not necessarily the case of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who can raise the issue with his Turkish partners, as you have done. It can also go beyond that. I asked the question of the reaction of Belgium and the European Union. Obviously, we have simply expressed dissatisfaction with Turkey, without taking any further action. As for the issue of protection, it has been introduced and I should normally ask Minister Jambon tomorrow. Like the Minister of Justice, you're referring to Minister Jambon. It's the classic exercise. I would remind you that this is a serious form of Turkish intrusion into Belgian and European territory. Turkey is making a Far West of our countries, where the heads of individuals who have nothing to blame can be priced. The case of Bahar Kimyongür is an emblematic case because several court decisions from different countries have confirmed that he cannot be charged with terrorism. The case is therefore very clear and Turkey's attitude is all the more reprehensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u17	Madam President, Minister, Salah Hamouri was arrested on the night of August 23, 2017 at his home in East Jerusalem, by the Israeli army who came to surprise him in his sleep. He is suspected, without any evidence, of belonging to an "enemy political organization". On 29 August, he was granted parole. Before he could even benefit from it, he was issued an administrative detention order for an initial period of six months, which was extended for another four months at the beginning of that month. Since then, he has been detained without charge or trial in a Negev prison, like thousands of Palestinians who, for years, have been imprisoned under "administrative detention", without being informed of the reason for their imprisonment, without charge or trial. This administrative detention can be renewed in accordance with the will of the Israeli authorities, and that is what is happening. This prison system has been used systematically by many oppressive regimes such as in South Africa, under the Apartheid regime or in Northern Ireland. Salah Hamouri is 32 years old, he is a Franco-Palestinian lawyer. He had already been arrested several times arbitrarily by his father and French by his mother; that was why he had decided to start legal studies and had become a lawyer. He worked with Palestinian political prisoners. The French Secretary of State to the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, reminded the Senate on 16 January, in response to a question from a parliamentarian that the government "hoped" the release of Salah Hamouri. He reiterated that the French authorities were unaware of the charges against the Franco-Palestinian lawyer under administrative detention. "The discussions with the Israeli authorities on this subject are regular (...) We are still waiting for answers to the questions we have asked," he said. The case of Salah Hamouri, although not Belgian but Franco-Palestinian, is important because it is emblematic of the arbitrariness and intimidation policy of the Israeli State. Have Belgium and Europe already shown themselves in relation to Mr Hamouri's situation and can they help put pressure at diplomatic level on Israel? In general, what initiatives is Belgium taking in relation to this very serious problem of arbitrary administrative detention in Israel?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u18	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, as I have already had the opportunity to tell you, in response to your previous questions, for example on the arrest of Mrs Tamimi, in general, the use by the Israeli authorities of administrative detentions and the extension of such detentions, without any obligation of justification, is extremely worrying. Administrative detention is a measure that must remain of an exceptional nature for a limited period of time and take into account various safeguards, such as the right to respect for the rights of defence of the detainee and the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time. This is a position that Belgium stresses every time we have the opportunity to meet this issue, either at multilateral level, in European coordination or in bilateral discussions. We have contacts at various levels with representatives of the Israeli government to systematically return to this issue. In the course of these discussions, except in exceptional circumstances, we refer to the general situation without reference to specific cases in order to stress that this whole policy is problematic. Mr Salah Hamouri's case is unfortunately not isolated. In this particular case, as you yourself pointed out, Mr Hamouri has French nationality, it is up to France to take the initiative to provide him with consular assistance and decide whether it prefers to use the bilateral track only or to do otherwise. Of course, if France requests diplomatic assistance from its European partners, it goes without saying that we will be ready to provide our support, but for the time being we have not received any indication in this regard. We leave it to the French authorities, of course, to choose how to react.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that, as you have already said in relation to the Tamimi case, this Israeli practice is worrying. I would tend to answer you, as I did for Mrs Tamimi, that at some point we should consider a little more than tearing complaints to the Israeli State. You say you don't refer to specific cases. Indeed, it can be conceived. Unfortunately, we can also see this in the case of the previous question concerning Bahar Kimyongür, sometimes there are emblematic cases that make things move a little more than general mention of a situation which unfortunately affects far more people than the only emblematic cases. I think there are sometimes emblematic cases that deserve to be highlighted. You did, by the way, and you said it for Bahar Kimyongür. This is indeed a Franco-Palestinian citizen. But from the moment that there is a case which, because of its scale, goes beyond the borders of a country, I do not see why Belgium could not intervene diplomatically to insist on this case and see what is feasible at European level. If I hear your answer correctly, at European level, there is no request from France on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u20	That is why I have told you that, except in exceptional circumstances - we are talking in general - when there is a case that we feel should be mentioned, we do so. France has so far made no request. The diplomatic tradition is that the country with consular responsibility should first be left to choose its path, bilateral or working together with partners. We are not going to intervene in place of the French government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u21	I can understand, even if informally, that could be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u22	I note that it is quite exceptional that you can understand one of my answers. I'll write it down in reference. It's historical!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament 24123 by Mr Luykx, Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Debates of the European Parliament 24125 by Mr Crusnière is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u24	Madam President, Minister, the rule of law in Poland is undermined by a series of laws. Following several attempts by the European Commission to engage in dialogue with Poland, the Commission finally launched the procedure in December under Article 7 of the EU Treaty which may provide for sanctions. Poland started a charming offensive, including a newly appointed Prime Minister, but the negotiations have so far produced very few improvements. If no progress is made, the Commission may take sanctions against Poland. This requires a qualified majority within the EU Council, in particular 22 EU Member States. My questions to you are as follows, Minister. What is the state of the dialogue between the European Commission and Poland? How do you estimate the impact of the ongoing procedure? What difficulties do you foresee to enforce the efficiency of the current procedure? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u25	Madam President, Mr Van Peteghem, on the situation of the rule of law in Poland, the Commission has already issued four recommendations on the rule of law. On 20 December 2017, the Commission also presented a reasoned proposal to initiate the first phase of Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union. According to the Commission, there is a clear risk of a serious violation of the independence of the judiciary and the separation of powers in Poland. In its proposal, the Commission makes five specific recommendations to be adopted by Poland within three months of their adoption. Poland also has three months to formally respond to the fourth recommendation, until 20 March 2018. This has not yet been done to my knowledge, but Poland did propose a white paper on 7 March 2018 in which the context in which the recent legislation was adopted was discussed in detail. The General Affairs Council of 27 February 2018 discussed the situation of the rule of law in Poland and the activation of Article 7. Progress in the dialogue between the Commission and Poland was noted. High-level meetings took place between the Polish President and Ministers on the one hand, and the Commission President, the Vice-President and Commissioner Jourová on the other. Meetings at expert level are also scheduled for March. I welcome that. Following my meeting with the new Polish Foreign Minister, Jacek Czaputowicz, in Brussels at the beginning of February, I expressed my appreciation for the improvement of the dialogue between Poland and the Commission. I have also encouraged him to continue this dialogue so that concrete progress can be made in the foreseeable future. I also stressed the importance of the rule of law and respect for our fundamental values and expressed my support for the Commission. I also proposed and stressed the importance of introducing a peer review in which the situation of the rule of law would be discussed at regular intervals in all Member States without distinction and on an equal basis. This political mechanism would add value to the current, often strong, legal procedures. It will depend on the Polish Government, and on the extent to which it makes the necessary changes to the current legislation, how the procedure laid down in Article 7 will proceed. I would remind you that this procedure covers several stages and that there is only a four-fifths majority in the first phase to identify a clear risk of serious violation of powers. I believe that your question dates back to early March. I must say that there has been a new meeting of the General Affairs Council since then. On the last day of the procedure, Poland replied to the Commission's various recommendations. The President of the Commission has said that the Commission will carry out an evaluation of Poland's different responses. Perhaps the Commission will respond to this at the next meeting in April and ask for the procedure to be continued. We are now awaiting the European Commission's comments on the replies given by Poland at the last General Affairs Council meeting in March.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u26	If I understand you correctly, Minister, you say that it is progressing, but not fast enough, and you think that everything is stretching. I believe that we are right to continue to put pressure on them. I would encourage you to continue to support the initiative of the peer review, which you have proposed several times, at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u27	Mr. As Van der Maelen was absent, Mr Hellings would like to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u28	Deputy Prime Minister, this 6 March, the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) delivered a judgment on the arbitration clause contained in the Bilateral Investment Agreement between Slovakia and the Netherlands. This is the first time that the ECJ has decided on the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism, abbreviated the ISDS system. This judgment could therefore impact the 200 investment agreements between various EU Member States which contain this type of ISDS clause. The 'preliminary referral' procedure before the Court was initiated by Slovakia, which challenged the possibility of seeing a private undertaking, in the case of the Netherlands, seeking compensation on the ground that the latter was claiming damages because Slovakia was in part returning to the liberalisation of the health insurance market. In this judgment, the ECJ is clear in concluding that "investment protection is not compatible with Union law" because "this arbitral tribunal may be required to interpret or even apply Union law". Hence, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my questions. How many treaties or other intra-European agreements containing an ISDS-type clause affect our country? On reading this ECJ opinion, what conclusions can you draw on the implications for investment treaties containing this type of clause? Is European coordination envisaged to update the various treaties containing this ISDS clause in order to bring them into line with the case law of the CJEU initiated on 6 March? Finally, the arguments put forward by the CJEU in opposition to the ISDS process also seem to undermine the future ICS system, which replaced the original ISDS system in the CETA agreement. Do you think that this case law gives an indication of the meaning of the opinion that you yourself have asked about the ICS clause of the CETA agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u29	Question No 24627 by Mrs Grovonius was withdrawn. Mrs Grovonius, you have the floor for your question No 24633.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u30	Mr Minister, this 6 March, the Court of Justice of the European Union was called upon to deliver an opinion on the case of a bilateral investment agreement between the Netherlands and Slovakia. This opinion is an important precedent because it was the first time that the EU Court of Justice had ruled on the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism. In 1991, the Netherlands and Czechoslovakia had negotiated an investment protection agreement, which Slovakia inherited at the time of the partition of the country. The latter served as the basis for a Dutch investor's appeal to a panel of private arbitrators. After liberalising its health insurance system in 2004, Slovakia introduced a series of rules limiting the distribution of profits to the owners of insurance companies in 2006. The Dutch company Achmea then received €22 million in compensation using the ISDS mechanism. In order to invalidate this decision, Slovakia turned to the German court, which itself decided to refer a question to the Court of Justice of the European Union for a preliminary ruling. In its judgment, the Court clearly states that, I quote: "The arbitration clause contained in the TBI undermines the autonomy of Union law and is therefore not compatible with it." Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you about this point. With regard to this specific case, are the consequences at the level of our country known? Do you intend to review the model agreement used by Belgium in the light of this judgment and renegotiate the treaties in force or in the process of ratification? And for the follow-up to this judgment, is there an official Belgian position and if so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u31	Colleagues, at present, eleven bilateral investment treaties containing an ISDS (Investor-state dispute settlement) arbitration clause are in force between Belgium and Member States of the European Union. These are Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Cyprus, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania and Slovenia. At the moment, my services are carrying out an in-depth analysis of the consequences of this judgment on investment protection agreements signed and ratified by Belgium. On this basis, and in consultation with the federated entities concerned, our country will position itself in this debate. The 'Achmea' judgment relates only to the specific case in question. Belgium, in consultation with our European partners and the Commission, will analyse the judgment and its possible impact on other intra-European agreements containing such an arbitration clause. There is therefore a whole process, not only in Belgium with the federated entities, but also at European Union level to see how to react in the same way, if possible, across the Union. The Court did not comment on the compatibility of arbitration clauses in bilateral investment treaties with third countries outside the European Union. At the moment, Belgium is not negotiating and does not intend to negotiate such treaties with European countries. The investment treaties currently being ratified therefore concern only third countries, countries not members of the European Union. However, it must be noted that several Belgian companies still use the ISDS clause to ensure adequate protection of their investments within the European Union. It will therefore be necessary to assess what measures may be necessary in order to enable our companies to maintain a level of confidence so that they continue to carry out and, if possible, strengthen their foreign investment within the European Union. The factual and legal context of the Achmea case differs from that of Belgium's requested opinion to the European Court of Justice on the compatibility of the Investment Court System (ICS) and the European Treaties. The ICS is not an arbitration mechanism but a first step towards multilateral investment protection. It is therefore different, including in the legal field, from the mechanism re-established in the bilateral investment agreements. Moreover, the ICS is being rolled out by the EU as a whole in respect of third non-EU countries and not between EU Member States. The Achmea case confirms, if there were any doubt, the need and will of our country to pursue a multilateral investment court. To this end, on 20 March last the General Affairs Council approved a negotiating mandate for the Commission. In the meantime, this mandate has also been published. Negotiations will begin at UN level in the coming weeks. On the basis of the legal analyses carried out by the European Commission, the Council Secretariat and the European Parliament, the provisions of the ICS, which have been re-established in the CETA Convention, are expected to be compatible with the European Treaties. That is why the Federal Council of Ministers decided in July 2017 to launch the ratification process of CETA. After obtaining the opinion of the Council of State, the CETA ratification dossier is currently being finalised. The Court's opinion on the question of advice should undoubtedly be taken into account in the further development of the ICS. To this end, a further proposal from the European Commission is expected. The CETA Convention contains provisions for which the different federated entities are competent. They must therefore decide for themselves when to submit the ratification dossier to their respective parliaments. During the recent state visit to Canada, the political support of the traveling Prime Ministers was shown to further develop our bilateral political, economic and cultural relations with Canada. CETA is an excellent instrument for this. The federal government therefore hopes that, in line with this political support, the respective ratification procedures in all relevant assemblies can be rapidly initiated. I was particularly impressed by the enthusiasm of all the regional and community ministers-presidents present during this state visit to Canada, as they represented, Madam President, all of our federated, regional and community entities. I have rarely heard such an important plea to strengthen our bilateral economic relations, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u32	Madam President, thank you. Minister, very much so that you are Brussels' Minister-President to welcome the excellent relations that Brussels and Canada will have. Of course it's a joke! You announced that you wanted to move forward on the ratification of CETA without waiting for the opinion you had asked the Court of Justice of the European Union on the compatibility of its ICS provision with European law. It's your decision. That's too bad, I already told you. We could have expected to ratify CETA after receipt of all the elements, in particular this valuable opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union. What does it say in the case of the Treaty between Slovakia and the Netherlands? He said that European law within the European Union was sufficient to protect the interests of investors. That is what the judgment in question says. In my view, European law is sufficient to guarantee the rights of potential Canadian investors, if one makes a parallel with CETA. The ICS is obviously not ISDS. I'm well aware of that. An independent court is not an arbitral tribunal composed of arbitrators who are business lawyers. But - and I repeat the opinion of the European Court - this court may have to interpret or even apply EU law, which makes it illegal under European law. An ICS-type court may also be required to interpret or even apply European law. I fear, and the opinion of the EU Court of Justice on the ICS on the CETA will tell us, that the Court is reaching the same conclusion. I therefore believe that we must be very careful and I ask you, even if it is in vain, to wait before ratifying CETA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u33	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for these elements of your response. Everyone can indeed rejoice in good relations with Canada. However, on certain aspects of the treaty, there are calls for caution. Prudence which you do not want to implement, since you decide to move forward even before we have obtained this opinion from the Court of Justice on the ICS. Even if we know that the ICS is not the same as the ISDS, the Court of Justice is already putting forward elements that raise questions. You keep wanting to move forward, before we even get that opinion. We regret it. We will probably have an opportunity to discuss it again in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u34	Minister, at the end of February, a Slovak investigative journalist who was investigating a government adviser was shot dead, while he was also about to publish an article on the alleged links between Slovak politicians and Italian businessmen suspected of being linked to the Calabria mafia – the 'Ndrangheta' – operating in Slovakia. The latter's wife was also shot. This is not the first time such a situation has occurred. A segment of the population is beginning to demonstrate and worry about the potential links between power and organized crime. In addition, following the posthumous publication of the journalist's article, two close collaborators of the Prime Minister left their post and the Minister of Culture resigned in protest. In this regard, in the face of the accusations of corruption and the crisis of confidence in which the State and its institutions are plunged, several voices are raised to demand early elections or a profound overhaul of the government. Deputy Prime Minister, what is your analysis of the Slovak situation? Can we learn a little more about the level of corruption? There must be international studies on the subject. This has an impact on some international commitments. Are we moving towards early elections?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u35	Madam President, the murder of investigative journalist Jan Kuciak and his fiancée has had political effects. Prime Minister Robert Fico resigned on March 15, partly under pressure from ongoing street demonstrations. Tens of thousands of Slovaks demonstrated in different cities, partly under pressure from the coalition partner. However, Mr. Fico remains the president of the ruling government party. Previously, there was the resignation of the Ministers of Culture, Home Affairs and Justice. Former Deputy Prime Minister Peter Pellegrini has been appointed by President Kiska as the new Head of Government. He proposed his government to the president. To my knowledge, a vote of confidence took place yesterday. Coalition partners were satisfied with this solution. I had the opportunity to speak to my colleague Miroslav Lacjak, who presides over the United Nations General Assembly, this morning. He is still a member of the Slovak government and, moreover, left for Bratislava after our meeting. The new elections that the parties in the government wanted to avoid are not on the agenda for the time being. Nevertheless, the situation remains tense. To answer your question, corruption remains a major concern in Slovakia. In its report of this European Semester on Slovakia, the European Commission refers to the limited efforts of the Slovak authorities to tackle this problem. According to the World Economic Forum, corruption is the biggest obstacle to the conduct of business in Slovakia. The mass demonstrations against corruption and the involvement of the Slovak elites show that the Slovak people attach great importance to it as much as they distrust the authorities. We will therefore discuss with the new Slovak government whether there is a possibility of changing the situation in this area – what we can hope for – but that will depend on the positions we will have the opportunity to discover in the coming weeks. The new government received confidence yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u36	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u37	Minister, for 30 years the region of Nagorno-Karabakh has been one of the frozen conflicts in the territory of the former Soviet Union. Since August 2014, there has been a tense situation. At the end of 2015, the Council of Europe has already invited all parties to return to the framework established by the OSCE Minsk Group in order to reach a sustainable solution to this situation. A four-day war broke out in April 2016, and tensions have remained worryingly high since then. In the meantime, it remains awaiting a European Union policy on the conflict that is taking place at its borders. The EU does not really play a role in the peace process. The European External Action Service does not declare itself competent and has limited support for the Minsk Group. The European Union does support a number of NGOs, united in the EPNK, but this has a limited impact on the ground for the time being. The EU can do more at the moment, without entering the waters of the Minsk process. The Minsk process focuses on an agreement on the territory of Nagorno-Karabakh. This leaves enough room for the EU to focus more on the humanitarian aspect. For example, the European Union can help create an area for cooperation between civil society organisations in the region and with financial support through donor programmes for projects for the population in difficulty along both sides of the conflict. Furthermore, the EU can also support demining programmes, but also act as a neutral human rights body. Hence my questions are the following. How do you estimate the situation today? Secondly, what role do you think the European Union plays in the peace process? Thirdly, what is the Belgian position regarding the European role in the peace process in this region? Does the European Union have a role to play in the humanitarian situation in the conflict? If so, what aspects do you think the European Union can play a role in?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u38	Madam President, Ms Van Hoof, the military conflicts in April 2016 led the protagonists of the OSCE Minsk Group to engage in more active diplomacy. High-level meetings between Armenia and Azerbaijan were held in Vienna in May 2017 and in Saint Petersburg in June 2017, with the aim of consolidating the cease-fire and launching a negotiation process. At the centre of these talks was the increase in the number of OSCE observers and the creation of an investigation mechanism. However, tensions on the ground did not decrease and therefore the OSCE Minsk Group encouraged its diplomatic efforts. There were meetings between the Azeri and the Armenian Foreign Ministers and between the Azeri and Armenian Presidents. In November, the Russian Foreign Minister went to Azerbaijan and Armenia to discuss a solution to the conflict. In February, the co-chairmen of the Minsk Group met the Presidents of Azerbaijan and Armenia in an effort to maintain diplomatic momentum. However, all these efforts have so far not led to the hoped-for progress. The fact that elections are taking place in both countries, in March in Azerbaijan and in April in Armenia, is undoubtedly a difficult factor. The EU position on the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict is based on the conviction that the status quo is unsustainable and that a peaceful political settlement of the conflict must be sought in accordance with international law. From this point of view, the European Union fully supports the mediation efforts of the Minsk Group. The EU encourages the engagement of Armenian and Azeri Presidents. The tensions along the border must be reduced and the parties must engage in substantial negotiations on the basis of the proposals made by the co-chairs of the Minsk Group. The EU's concrete efforts focus not so much on the humanitarian aspect but on encouraging confidence-building measures. The European Partnership for the Peaceful Settlement of the Conflict initiative on Nagarno-Karabakh is part of this. The EU plays an important role in promoting people-to-people contacts in order to increase trust between population groups. Belgium fully supports this EU approach. Our diplomatic posts in the region and in the relevant international organisations are closely monitoring the situation in Nagorno-Karabakh. We hope that a new negotiation process will be possible. I repeat that there are still elections in Armenia in April, so perhaps we should wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for updating the negotiation process. The elections will be in the middle of something that cannot now be taken forward or made concessions. Perhaps more will be possible after the elections. I was able to learn about the situation of the population during a study day on Nagorno-Karabakh in the European Parliament. Well, the situation of the citizens there, who have to live in isolation from the rest of the world, is not very uplifting. I have the impression that this humanitarian aspect is rather underestimated on the two sides of the conflict. The European Union could do a little more in this respect and explore the role it can play through the Minsk process. It is perhaps interesting to have diplomacy ask how we can take humanitarian action there with the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u40	Question No 24281 by Mr Peter Luykx is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u41	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, the Prime Minister participated in an official visit to Russia from January 29 to 31, 2018. On that occasion, he met with the Prime Minister and the President of the Russian Federation. This highly supervised and protocoled visit took place even as on 15 January last, Belgian F-16s in charge of the protection of the Belgian-Dutch airspace came to intercept Russian Blackjacks in the North Sea. At the time when the head of the Belgian government landed in Moscow, an opponent of Vladimir Putin, Alexey Navalny, was briefly imprisoned, which reminds us of the deplorable state of human rights in this country. Crimea is still under illegal occupation under international law. Finally, the Russian army is still present in large numbers in Syria, where it lends its hand to the bloody regime of Bashar al-Assad, especially in the Ghouta. Since I introduced this question, nothing has really changed. Meanwhile, the Cambridge Analytica case has been revealed. On this occasion, we learned that the Russian intelligence services were involved in the manipulation of the campaigns for the elections at the time of Brexit in Britain, the presidential elections in the United States and France, and the parliamentary elections in Italy, nothing less. Added to this is this new element, the poisoning of an old Russian spy, Mr Skripal, in Novichok, a substance prohibited by international treaties, especially those requiring the non-use of chemical weapons. It is in this context that on 13 and 14 February you took part in a working visit, this time, where you met again Mr Lavrov, among others. From all this, Deputy Prime Minister, come my questions. Prior to his departure, Mr. Michel, the head of government, expressed common interests between our two countries. Could you explain to me what this implies on the evolution of Belgium's position on the invasion of Crimea, on the ongoing cold war in Donbass, on the war in Syria and on the repeated military manoeuvres in northern Europe? Will Belgium start the same process of warming its diplomatic relations with the Syrian regime? Will Belgium therefore plead for an end to the ongoing economic embargo against Russia? For the sake of clarity, I do not, of course, plead for the end of this embargo. Could you elaborate on how you have approached the human rights situation, in general, and in the areas currently occupied by the Russian army in particular, with your interlocutors, at this time? Which associations of human rights defenders did you meet during your visit? Your visit took place just 15 days after the Prime Minister's visit. What is the political meaning of this dual diplomatic fervour? Could you not accompany the Prime Minister in January? In this very tense international context, do you not consider the risks that the Belgian government, through its Prime Minister and yourself, has taken to remove this regime from the relative diplomatic isolation in which its questionable actions on the internal and external scene plunged it? Do you not fear a manipulation of which this government is the undisputed global expert?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u42	Madam President, Mr Hellings, I should like to point out that since the beginning of the crisis in Ukraine in 2014, and especially since the Russian Federation's violations of Ukrainian territorial integrity in Donbass and Crimea, Belgium has fully embraced the approach of the European Union and NATO. This approach combines deterrence, particularly in the form of sanctions, and openness to dialogue with Russia, which must be frank and critical, as I have said several times before this committee. This is the Harmel doctrine that we commemorated over the past 50 years that still governs this approach within NATO and, more broadly, in our relations with Russia. Neither sanctions nor dialogues are goals in themselves but means to resolve the conflict in Ukraine and restore peace and stability in the neighbourhood of the European Union. As long as there is no substantial progress in the implementation of the Minsk agreements, a review of the sanctions regime is not on the agenda. I recall that these Minsk agreements were achieved through a very direct dialogue between the French and German Heads of State or Government and their Ukrainian and Russian counterparts. My visit to Moscow in February was an opportunity to remind my Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov of this position. I also called on my Russian interlocutors to take a more constructive approach, not only to the Ukrainian issue, but also to other major geopolitical issues, such as the situation in Syria and Iraq and the challenges in the area of disarmament and non-proliferation. My trip to Russia took place in the context of the 11th session of the Joint Economic Cooperation Commission between the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union and Russia, which I co-chair. This biannual Commission with Luxembourg and Russia is traditionally held in February and my visit was therefore set long in advance. There was no connection to a previous visit or to a forthcoming World Cup football. The Joint Economic Cooperation Commission remains a very useful platform for dialogue since it aims not only to identify areas of economic cooperation but also to defend the concrete interests of our companies, in particular by presenting the obstacles they face in Russia, in the presence of Russian politicians. Despite the fact that the programme of my visit was mainly dictated by the economic agenda, I also had discussions with representatives of civil society. In particular, I met representatives of three NGOs active in the field of human rights and the rule of law for an in-depth discussion on the situation in Russia, including in the Chechen Republic. My interlocutors have confirmed that our efforts to address the situation of LGBTI people in this Republic are beginning to bear fruit. In my meeting with my counterpart, Sergei Lavrov, I stressed the importance that my country and the European Union continue to attach to the defence of human rights and our expectations in this area. I would point out that the NGOs present on the ground in Chechnya have been able to inform us of positive developments. This obviously does not mean that the situation is satisfactory, but at least the repeated interventions that we have been able to make, including in direct contacts with the Russian authorities, have clearly had an impact. Contacts have taken place between Moscow and the Chechen Republic. Often in our history, relations between Europe and Russia have been tense and disrupted. On many fundamental issues, our positions are divergent, but Russia is a neighbour with whom relations are, of course, not always easy, as the recent events in England in Salisbury prove, but this neighbour will always be at our eastern border. As I recently reminded one of your colleagues, on a private level, we sometimes see neighbours leaving us, but this is rarely the case with regard to the states. I fear that we are still keeping Russia as a neighbour of the European Union for a long time, even if we can hope that one day it will happen in good conditions. While remaining firm on its principles, Belgium will therefore continue to advocate the dual path of deterrence coupled with dialogue. I would like to add three points. This is what many other partners do. You will have noticed that, whatever the strong reactions in the United States, Great Britain or France, these three countries will continue to sit permanently on the Security Council in confrontation or dialogue with their Russian colleagues. It's the rule that wants that. There is no break in this dialogue at all. We will continue to conduct this dialogue within NATO. I confirm that NATO has just taken the decision to terminate the accreditation of seven Russian diplomats and to refuse the accreditation of three others. NATO has also decided to limit the number of diplomats representing Russia to 20. As a host country, of course, we will implement this NATO decision following a consultation of all member countries. Finally, I will have a discussion with my colleagues just now – which is why I asked you to finish the meeting at 5 p.m. – to see if there are any further decisions to be taken in Belgium regarding our relations with Russia, following the events in Salisbury. I can therefore confirm to you that, as I do regularly, I have contacts with my Russian colleagues and, in particular, with Sergei Lavrov, but with a very firm speech on the subjects where we diverge like Ukraine but also Georgia and Moldova, as well as human rights. I have just explained to you how, sometimes, we manage to change the situation, with others of course, while trying to remain open to dialogue where we can work together, whether at COP 21 in Paris on combating climate change or whether it is on conflicts in other parts of the world such as Syria or Iraq, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u43	You talked about the Harmel doctrine. It should not be forgotten that this doctrine was in response to a geostrategic context which, as you said, dates from fifty years ago. Here we have Crimea, Donbass, Syria and in particular Ghouta, Cambridge Analytica and Salisbury, all of a sudden, and, in this context, two high-level official visits, yours but also that of the Prime Minister. These official visits appear to be true hair in the soup while at this very moment, European states and not least, France, Germany, Great Britain, are expelling Russian diplomats. I believe that your current strategy, which aims to maintain a dialogue despite the sanctions, is not based on the facts. I just quoted them. What an extraordinary gap between your official visit and the decisions taken by our neighbouring States! You mentioned asking Russia for a constructive approach, particularly in the fight against proliferation. In any case, I believe that your visit on February 13 and 14 did not help to ensure that chemical weapons were not used against members of the Skipral family. The test of fact shows you that this dialogue is not useful. We have a clear proposal to make, Deputy Prime Minister. The World Cup is coming soon. I know you like football. We believe that the members of the government can support the Belgian national football team in Russia but I encourage you to take up the language with the members of the NGOs that you met in February and invite them to accompany you to the football matches in the official gallery so that the Russian officials can engage with these human rights defenders and be the facilitator of this human rights dialogue in Russia. It's a great way to counter this huge Russian propaganda machine!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u44	Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, in view of its importance, I had addressed this question to the Prime Minister but it has been reoriented to you; I thank you already for the interesting answers that you can give me. The European Union mediator recently reported the results of her in-depth study on the process of drawing up European laws in the Council. Ms O'Reilly noted that by adopting practices that hindered the consideration of legislative proposals, the Council "saves the right of citizens to hold their elected representatives to account". Among these "bad administration" practices, the Ombudsman stresses, on the one hand, "the Council's inability to systematically record the identity of the Member States which take a position in the discussions on legislative proposals" and, on the other hand, "the widespread practice of disproportionately marking documents as not intended to be disseminated - LIMITED status". The Ombudsperson "recommends the Council to systematically register the positions expressed by Member States in the Council working groups and in the meetings of COREPER ambassadors and, in principle, to make these documents available to the public in a proactive and timely manner". It also calls for the use of LIMIT status to meet defined criteria. Environmentalists in Belgium and Europe can only agree with Mrs O'Reilly in her observation and her recommendations that, in the absence of greater transparency, the attitude of criticising the European Union is unfortunately likely to continue. In my view, the project to build Europe requires greater transparency in the leadership of our representatives. Minister, can you tell me whether the federal government has read the EU Ombudsman's report? What is his analysis? What attitude will the government take with regard to these recommendations? Will it support their overall implementation? If not, who will be supported? What recommendations will they not be and why?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u45	Mr Gilkinet, on 9 February, the European Union mediator issued a recommendation on the transparency of the Council's decision-making process. At the meeting of the Information Group on 13 February, the Secretary of the Council acknowledged the important role of transparency and therefore proposed that these recommendations be carefully examined by the Council. Belgium supports this approach. This analysis has yet to be conducted and discussed at home. At this stage, it would therefore be premature to comment on the content of the recommendations. Having said that, I will certainly come back to you as soon as Belgium's position has been defined and the Council can discuss it. Our intention is to follow up positively on the comments of the European Union mediator.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u46	Minister, could you tell me what the body responsible for the analysis is, and could you also inform me of the time period you consider it necessary to carry it out?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u47	As far as the body is concerned, my department will consult with the federated entities, as they also participate in the European decision-making process. As for the deadline, I cannot inform you. In fact, it has sometimes taken me months to receive legal advice from some federated entities on treaties that seemed crucial to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u48	I have an idea of the treaty you're referring to... This clarification is important, Minister. It will allow my counterparts in the federated entities to ask their minister-president the same question. The transparency of the European decision-making process - as I mentioned in introducing my question - is crucial to environmentalists. I hope that the Belgian State, in all its components, will participate effectively and proactively in the extension of this transparency. I'll be back to interview you in a few weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u49	Minister, the situation in the Kurdish enclave of Afrin is of great interest and concern to my group, and I do not mean only my group. The enclave would have been occupied by Turkish units. Important Turkish sources even say that Turkey would like to go further. There is an offensive, of which we do not know where it will end. I would also like to point out that President Erdogan said to the world yesterday at a party meeting that one is either in all honesty on the side of Turkey or in all hostility against Turkey. His use of words is very confrontational and even aggressive. You said last week in plenary in response to a question, I quote: 'During the debate that will take place today in the European Council, we will try to reach agreement on a new European démarche to the European authorities'. We find the action of the Turkish troops in Afrin against all international rules and unacceptable. What decisions were taken at the European Council to respond to Turkey?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u50	Thank you, Mr Grovonius, for giving us the opportunity to ask this question first. I know, minister, that you have several questions on the subject. You've already answered. I hope there will not be too much redundancy, my questions still dating back about ten days. The Turkish president claimed that the city centre of Afrin was completely under control, explaining that the fighters of the free Syrian forces supported by Ankara controlled the city centre, previously held by the Kurdish militias of the People's Protection Units (YPG), considered a terrorist group by Erdogan. These fighters are supported and armed by Washington and members of the international coalition to fight the Islamic State. According to the Syrian Human Rights Observatory, more than 1,500 Kurdish fighters have been killed, as well as 400 rebels allied to Turkey since the start of the enclave offensive. The same agency, despite Turkey's rebuttals, also estimates the number of civilians killed at more than 280. Minister, what are the repercussions of this takeover of Afrin in Syria? What can we expect? What are the consequences of Turkish interventions in Afrin in the context of our diplomatic relations with Turkey, both for our State and for the international community? Could the impact of this Syrian crisis and Turkish interventions be expanded according to the information we have today?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u51	Colleagues, your questions about the situation in Afrin and the reactions of the international community echo several of my interventions on the subject, including the last one in the plenary of the House on 22 March, as you recalled. First of all, therefore, I can only repeat my previous remarks and confirm to you that we are constantly reminding Turkey of its obligations under international humanitarian law and the need to implement United Nations Security Council resolution 2401 without attempting to misinterpret it, as I recalled at the meeting last Thursday. While the city was taken this weekend by the Free Syrian Army and Turkish forces, the humanitarian situation around Afrin remains very acute. We must remember that the civilian population must benefit from a ceasefire and a humanitarian truce, and that the lootings found at the time of the city's capture must be stopped. We call for the creation of conditions for the rapid return of the tens of thousands of displaced persons. The integrity and rights of the Kurds in the region must be preserved by Ankara, as must the multi-ethnic character of the region. We are also deeply concerned about the Turkish authorities' statements regarding the continuation of the offensive towards Manbij, or even beyond, if an agreement with Washington did not lead to the withdrawal of Kurdish forces from the city. In all cases, every effort must be made to avoid an incident between allies in this context. As you also know, Belgium is an active and operational participant in the fight against Daesh in the coalition. The military operation "Olivier's camel", and certainly an extension of it towards Manbij, threatens to jeopardize the efforts of the coalition as well as the future of a multi-ethnic and peaceful Syria. Indeed, reports have reported transfers to Afrin of YPG troops fighting against Daesh. The evolution of the situation in Syria and Afrin and the possible continuation of Turkish operations are, of course, the subject of debates at European level and at NATO. I had the opportunity to ask a number of questions about this at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council on 19 March, following a briefing by the United Nations Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura. The European Union also had the opportunity to send clear messages to Turkey about the situation in Afrin at the Varna Summit on 26 March, in the presence of President Tusk, President Juncker and President Erdogan. The subject was discussed during the preparation of the summit on 22 and 23 March. At that meeting, Belgium gave the same message, namely that a ceasefire must be declared, so that humanitarian aid can be provided to the people, and that Turkey must stop its offensive against the north of Syria and thus against a number of Kurdish groups. The discussions also take place in NATO, where regular briefings are given to the North Atlantic Council, NAC. A briefing on Syria will take place today at the NAC. I asked our representative in NATO to give that clear message to his Turkish colleague on the subject. However, Security Council Resolution 2401, which was only adopted after a lot of discussion, especially with Russia, was amended so that it remains possible for many actors to take military action against some terrorist groups. It is unusual for Turkey to continue its offensive on the basis of that interpretation. We will continue to react bilaterally, but also, of course, through the European Union and NATO, to obtain a correct interpretation of the Security Council resolution and, I repeat, a ceasefire, humanitarian access and respect for the rights and integrity of the people in this region of northern Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We very much appreciate the fact that last week in plenary you described the events in East Ghouta in Northern Syria as unacceptable and barbaric. Those are also the right words to use. I also appreciate your responsibility on behalf of our government to maintain pressure and, where possible, to increase pressure. We are aware that it is not possible for us to intervene decisively, but the responsibility we have here must be fully borne. I would just like to point out that according to recent reports, ISIS is once again emerging, because the Kurdish militias are currently full of Turkish operations. It goes without saying that we should not only support our allies in the fight against ISIS for reasons of decency, but that it is also a matter of well-understood self-interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u53	Madam President, Minister, for the past ten years, Kosovo's independence has been recognized by 115 countries, but almost 80 other nations, including Russia, China, India, Indonesia or Brazil, have been missing. The European Union, whose five countries also do not recognize the independence of Kosovo - Cyprus, Spain, Greece, Romania and Slovakia - has made normalization of relations between Belgrade and Pristina a condition for their continued progress towards possible accession. But this dialogue, which began in 2011, has been at a standstill for two years. Minister, in this complicated regional context, what about relations between the European Union and Kosovo? What about visas and access to the Schengen area for Kosovo nationals?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u54	Mrs Grovonius, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and Kosovo entered into force on 1 April 2016. It imposes a programme of priority reforms on Kosovo, including the rule of law and the judiciary, respect for fundamental rights, public administration, economic development, education and employment. This agreement is supported by the European Union through the pre-accession funds. Since its entry into force, two Association Councils have been held. The European Union, in particular the High Representative, Vice-President of the Commission, Federica Mogherini, has committed itself, as a mediator in the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, to the normalisation of their relations. Some partial agreements have already been concluded, for example on the integration of Serbian judicial structures in northern Kosovo into the Kosovo judicial system. But it is clear that there are still many challenges. The European Union will ensure the full implementation of the agreements already concluded and the continuation of the talks in this dialogue towards a comprehensive and binding agreement between the two countries. The deepening of the process of association between the European Union and Kosovo will follow the pace of progress in the dialogue. This normalisation is also a condition in the accession negotiations with Serbia. As part of the road map, two criteria remained to be met for Kosovo before visa exemption was granted. On 21 March 2018, an agreement with Montenegro on the final demarcation of the border between the two countries has just been ratified by the Kosovar Parliament, after a long political debate. With regard to the second criterion, the commitment to make sufficient progress in the fight against corruption, we are awaiting the committee's report, which I have very recently had the opportunity to remind my fellow Kosovar on a visit to Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u55	Minister, in various regions of Congo, such as Ituri, North Kivu and Kasaï, the insecurity situation is escalating. In lturi, for example, the ethnic tensions between the Hema and the Lendu have caused more than 33 deaths in recent weeks, and 60 deaths since December. Since December there have been more than 100 000 forced relocations, including 42 000 refugees to Uganda. The army is failing to control the situation. According to the local hospital, politics fails to provide basic services for citizens. A strong response from the international community is needed. In the meantime, discussions are under way on extending the mandate of the MONUSCO. It is important that the protection of citizens should become the anchor point of the mandate. An explicit division with categories of groups to be protected is necessary. On 7 March, the Congolese Foreign Minister argued for the qualitative decline of MONUSCO, with 'less but more specialised troops in the fight against armed groups'. It is not only the security situation that needs to be monitored, but also the humanitarian situation. A conference on humanitarian aid to the DRC will therefore be held in Geneva on 13 April. I have the following questions. Firstly, what is your analysis of the security situation in lturi and other regions such as North Kivu and Kasaï? How can we contribute to conflict resolution in these regions? Is there any thought of an increased MONUSCO presence in lturi? Secondly, how do you respond to the position of the Congolese Minister in favour of a qualitative reduction in the MONUSCO presence in Congo? Thirdly, what priorities on the security situation will be taken into account in the discussions on the extension of the MONUSCO mandate? Is there any thought about the explicit division of protected groups in the renewal of the mandate? To what extent can MONUSCO contribute to the logistical but also political guidance of the electoral process, to guarantee free elections, but also to the humanitarian situation in the country? Finally, has Belgium taken steps to call on the participating countries to provide humanitarian aid to Congo at the Geneva Conference?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u56	Mrs Van Hoof, I am very concerned about the situation in Ituri. More than 60 people were killed, but possibly much more. Thousands of houses were burned down and there are more than 100 000 displaced persons, including 42 000 refugees in neighbouring Uganda. These are the consequences of the violence in the northeastern province of Ituri in the DRC since December 2017. The intercommunal violence between the Lendu and the Hema on the territory of Djugu quickly follows one another, also in the direction of Bunia. On 10 February, representatives of the Hema and Lendu communities in Bunia published a joint communication condemning the violence on the ground of Djugu, with little effect. According to the assessment of MONUSCO, widespread violence on the territory of Djugu can lead to a long cycle of attacks and retaliation and encourage the return or establishment of self-defense militias. The risk is indeed that the violence would expand geographically in the coming weeks. In addition to Djugu, the MONUSCO has opened two temporary bases at Blukwa and Fataki. On Monday 17 March 2018, a humanitarian briefing took place in the United Nations Security Council, including the Deputy SG of the United Nations Humanitarian Office, Lowcock, which had just returned from a mission in the DRC. CENCO has discussed the deep humanitarian crisis and the resumption of the cycle of violence in different regions. For example, in the Kasai alone, 1.4 million people had to flee their village. The CENCO identified two root causes. That is, first of all, the unstable and uncertain security situation caused by armed groups and interethnic clashes as well as manipulations of dark forces, as in Ituri, as it is not known who is behind the revival of violence. Secondly, that is the socio-political and electoral crisis. This is also the context in which the Humanitarian Donor Conference in Geneva will continue on 13 or 14 April 2018. My colleague from Development Cooperation will take part in that conference. For specific questions about that conference, I would refer you to my colleague. Our country has made the success of this conference a priority, jointly organised by the United Nations, the European Union, the Netherlands and the United Arab Emirates. I understand that my colleague had a discussion with EU Commissioner Stylianides at the beginning of February 2018 with a view to involving the European Union in the pledging and additional EU ecofunds in addition to the planned expenditure for 2018. In my recent contacts on the DRC, I myself raised the importance of the conference. According to our representation in New York, the negotiations on the new MONUSCO resolution are now moving in the right direction. Yesterday or this morning, a new mandate was approved, without any reduction in the resources for MONUSCO. The resolution is therefore moving in the right direction. Above all, our country appreciates that the main task of the mission will be to achieve a genuine, credible electoral process and that further efforts will be made to make the MONUSCO more efficient in the area of protecting citizens, not just in relation to the violence of armed groups. The protection of peaceful demonstrators would also be included in the mandate and has also been effectively incorporated into it. It is also positive that it was decided not to reduce the mission. Our country calls on MONUSCO to learn lessons from the reaction of the international community to the violence in Kasaï. MONUSCO should contribute rapidly and appropriately to the protection of citizens in Ituri and should also help to explain the causes of violence. So there is not only a political crisis in the DRC, we are also afraid of a very serious humanitarian crisis. I said that after my visit in November and now it is confirmed at other levels in the international community. There is also a security crisis, not only in Kasaï and Ituri, but also in other provinces.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u57	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your update. It is good that the mandate of the MONUSCO looks better than in the past for the protection of citizens. Hopefully, the MONUSCO can also mean something about the humanitarian situation, in addition to the pledging conference. It is clear to me, however, that there is a distribution and control policy going on in Congo. The existing government thus puts itself above the rabble and continues to rule out the need not to create instability. That's a terrible strategy. It is therefore important to keep an eye on the humanitarian situation and to continue to press for elections at the end of this year. We will probably hear about this again soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u58	Minister, at the end of February Evans Njoroge was executed by a police officer on a protest march against the increase in tuition in the Meru region. That officer later threatened a witness and apparently is still at large. Kenya cannot directly produce good results in terms of investigating and punishing agents for these kinds of facts. This is once again an example of the collapse of the democratic rule of law in Kenya. There are also the controversial presidential elections of 2013 and 2017, on which riots followed. There are also recent revelations about Cambridge Analytica's data company, which involves election manipulation based on Facebook data. Cambridge Analytica would have been hired to manage President Kenyatta's campaign. Minister, what is the government's position on the murder of Evans Njoroge and similar police operations in Kenya? What is the position on the situation of the democratic rule of law in Kenya? Did our country recognise Kenyatta's victory in 2017? Is there such a thing as an official recognition of an election result? And on what basis did that happen? Is the government following the situation regarding Cambridge Analytica? Is there currently any reason to doubt the correctness of the vote in Kenya? Is it possible for our country, if there is such a thing as an official recognition of an election result, to withdraw it if necessary afterwards? What are the conditions for this, if any? Has this happened in the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u59	Madam President, following the death of Mr. Evans Njoroge, a pathologist of the Kenyan government carried out an autopsy on 3 March 2018 in the presence of a team of doctors, officials of the Indepedent Politicing Oversight and officers of the judicial police. This showed that Evans Njoroge was shot from a short distance, with a bullet in the back of the head. The Indepedent Police Oversight Autorithy closed the investigation on 16 March and delivered the file to the Director's office for prosecution in order to continue the investigation. The officer suspected was identified by several witnesses but has not yet been officially charged. Despite positive developments in this area, such as the creation of the Independent Police Oversight Authority in 2011, an organism that exercises civilian control over the policy work, impunity in Kenya is still a real problem. The Presidential elections of 8 August 2017 were annulled by the Supreme Court on 1 September 2017. During this election, Uhuru Kenyatta won with great advantage from his opponent Raila Odinga, who won 54% of the votes cast against 44%. This had never happened on the African continent until now. The new presidential election of 26 October 2017, which was boycotted by Odinga, was won by Kenyatta by more than 98% of the votes. However, turnout at national level was low, 38.8% compared to 79.1% for the elections on 8 August 2017. On 20 November 2017, the Supreme Court confirmed the reelection of Kenyatta and its Jubilee coalition. The various international election observation missions of various organisations: the African Union, the European Union but also the Carter Foundation, and the local mission, indeed found irregularities in the elections. However, they did not question the result. No mission could provide the necessary evidence for this. Like the other EU Member States, Belgium sent congratulations to Kenya. We are following the Cambridge Analytica case closely, but we do not have any more information than we have read so far, as you have read in the press. We could read that the Vice-President of the Jubilee Coalition, David Murathe, would have called on services from a Cambridge Analytica-related company, namely Strategic Communication Laboratories. Looks like this was just for marketing purposes, branding, so to speak. We will try to gather more information on this. Perhaps then we can take further steps. But I repeat, so far we have no more information than those who have appeared in the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic856x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is not only in Kenya but also elsewhere in Africa that young people take the lead in the fight for more democracy and against corruption. That is, of course, a good thing. More democracy and openness are essential for the development of the continent and can also be an advantage for us. We must also be aware of the current technological means. We advocate digitalisation projects. Minister De Croo is also in favour of using that more and more in Africa. It would be a pity that these digitisation projects would be to the detriment of local people. Independent election observation, clear statements and views and short communication remain very important. But you know that better than I do. I would like to thank the Minister once again for his reply and thank him for attending the session in full.
