ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u1	Colleagues, there is an exchange of views on the investment pact, the strategic investment pact on which we had an exchange of views with the Prime Minister in June. We also received a first note at that time. At the beginning of the parliamentary year, we also had an exchange of views with the strategic committee. We now have the honour to have a follow-up and a state of affairs on what is ahead and what our vision and plans are for the future. Prime Minister, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u2	Mr President, I particularly thank you for allowing us to meet at 9 a.m. in Parliament to address a subject which I would call very important for the future, like many Members here. Work on the investment pact has progressed significantly in recent months at four levels. I will try to take stock of this progress as accurately as possible. The first level brings together developments from the strategic committees and thematic working groups that have been set up. The second level concerns the consultation committee and inter-federal working groups. The third level is of course occupied by relations with the European Commission. The fourth level brings together the specific measures of the federal government, which are part of the momentum of this investment pact. I will start with the first point, in this case the strategic committee. A strategic committee was established in March 2017. The Committee was asked to formulate recommendations which will be the cornerstone of the future investment strategy in Belgium. The preparatory work enabled the Committee to define a reflection framework in a first report in September 2017. Work is continuing within this framework. As a reminder, the Strategic Committee submitted this report to the members of the Committee on the Interior in November. Nine working groups have now been set up and are currently fully operational. These are six thematic working groups and three transversal working groups. Each of these groups is chaired by non-political personalities who have been chosen or asked for their experience in relation to the subjects in question, or because of their entrepreneurial experience in some cases. These are the thematic groups Mobility, Energy, Digital, Health, Education, Justice and Security, and cross-cutting groups PPP, Capital Mobilization, Budget Rules and Authorizations for Administrative Procedures. Thematic groups on security and justice issues aim to address cyber security issues first and foremost, in addition to investments related to justice. It is therefore the CWB that will lead the work. The aim of these groups is to promote an inclusive bottom-up approach, in order to probe the various actors representing the sectors, and to collect the maximum amount of information from them. We want to look for expertise where it is located, in the public sector or in the private sector. The aim is to get away from the usual exercises which, sometimes, have remained too theoretical. As soon as possible, we want to take a concrete and operational approach. Each group had to submit a full report to the Strategic Committee by April 2018. In particular, this report will identify the limiting factors for investment and the sub-domains that are the most difficult in terms of economic and social return. The final objective of the Strategic Committee is to draw up a full report by June 2018. This report should contain four to five very concrete, broad recommendations for the political world. The means to launch a public contract to implement these recommendations as soon as possible are allocated at the level of the FOD Chancery. The Staff Plan provides for two persons to monitor the evolution of the work specifically. The selection procedure for one of the two posts is currently being completed. The final report will be submitted to Parliament by the members of the Strategic Committee. This first point shows the first stage of this national strategic investment pact. Work has started and is well advanced. Key steps will take place in April and June. By April, working group reports and strategic committee reports and recommendations will help us identify how to operationalize our investment strategy. First point. The second point is more political, in the noble sense of the word: it is the role of the concertation committee. Each measure is that, in our institutional architecture, the concertation committee plays an important role, while the majorities are, at any rate, not perfectly symmetrical. This means that in the concertation committee, we must, while respecting each other's competences, see how we can synchronize dialogue and coordinate efforts to make investment choices from governments and with the support of parliaments. As a reminder, in this regard, at the request of the government, the Strategic Committee submitted in December a specific report on the budgetary treatment of public investment at European level. This report, presented to the consultation committee on 20 December 2017, was shared with the various government officials of the country's entities. It has two main components. I'm going to be a little more technical for a few moments in order to go a little deeper into the subject. The European budgetary rules and the financing of public investment on the one hand, and the conditions for efficient public investment on the other, are the two main strands of this report of the Strategic Committee under discussion in the Concertation Committee. Here is a summary of the main elements that form the basis for thinking about the strategic approach to public instruments in Belgium. First, the European budgetary rules apply to each Member State as a whole. It is therefore requested that internal institutions and procedures exist and be mobilized to organize financial and budgetary coordination between entities. This is the importance of inter-federal consultation. In other words, for many years we have taken note of the positions of federated entities without being able to approve them. This has allowed us, on many occasions in recent years, to present to the European institutions documents which comply with European requirements. We therefore feel strongly, particularly in this national strategic investment pact, that it is important to take decisions that collectively engage the federated entities. This is a message that we receive systematically and insistently from the European Commission. Moreover, budgetary rules are not unilaterally imposed by the European Commission. Don't forget it. They are decided at the European Council and ratified by the national parliaments as well as by the European Parliament. The Commission does not decide on its own. It is necessary to convince a majority of Member States, although the Commission is the appropriate body to initiate the process. In general, the European Council and the European Commission consider that the European framework for budgetary governance provides sufficient flexibility to support the European Union's growth strategy. So we are starting with a certain disadvantage to these negotiations. The main message that everyone is aware of is that, for the time being, the main reasoning of the European Commission is to consider that there is, today, sufficient flexibility that may need to be used more where appropriate. We have already used it in a number of events, including terrorist attacks or the asylum crisis. In order to be credible, any proposal to adjust the budgetary rules should aim at supporting temporary public investment efforts or promoting the transition to a higher level of public investment expenditure. We cannot therefore ask for an unlimited budget exemption over time. This should aim at a transitional period of raising the investment rate. I would even like to talk about a form of investment shock to provoke a push of the latter in order to maintain, in the future, the ambition to a high degree and the strategy in terms of investment. I now come to the conditions. The increase in the investment of public authorities is likely to generate a double dividend. In the short term, it must allow output by the shock of demand. In the long term, it must increase output through the shock of supply. The choice of projects to be carried out must therefore maximise the possibility of this double dividend offered by public investment. In this context, there is obviously a key point, namely economic and societal return. Economic and social return must be an essential criterion in the choice of investment, both in the short and in the long term. In this respect, the Commission highlights six principles, which should guide the choice of public investment to be undertaken. First, projects must meet clearly identified objectives. Second, they must be part of an investment strategy across business lines and levels of government. Third, they must be adequately funded, taking into account available budgetary margins. Fourth, they must be properly designed, selected and evaluated. Fifth, they must be carefully executed and followed up. Finally, funding sources need to be ideally diversified. In concrete terms, three paths must be taken. First of all, as I said, we must make maximum use of the flexibility offered by the European framework. This requires an ongoing dialogue with the European Commission, as is already the case with several Member States. I'll come back later. Secondly, more fundamentally, the Commission and Parliament have often addressed the issue of changes to European legislation. Two leads seem to us, at this stage, to have to be explored. First, there is a need to reform the regulations on the inclusion of investments in budgetary balances. For example, we could revise the definition of the latter concept by calculating investments based on the rate of depreciation. Secondly, we could change the interpretative rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, namely the investment clause – which applies only to countries in very unfavourable economic situations. At this stage, no State is eligible for interpretation. These are the two main avenues on which we consider it useful to continue our discussions with the European bodies. The Consultation Committee agreed on a two-stage approach in December. The first phase is to propose an amendment to the investment clauses. The main reason for this is that the Treaty should not be amended. Moreover, in the short term, this will meet the financial needs for public investment. The second phase is to advocate an adjustment of the definition of the budgetary balance under the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact on the basis of the results achieved in the first phase. Unlike the first phase, the budgetary rules are enshrined in the Treaties. Its adaptation therefore requires a long process of approval at European level and in all Member States. At the request of the federal government, the Planning Bureau presented the technical possibilities for simulating the macroeconomic impact of an investment shock to the interfederal working group in January. The European Commission model, the QUEST model, was used. This makes it possible to simulate a global shock at national level. Unfortunately, however, it does not distinguish between levels of competence. It nevertheless provides an indication of the effects on the main macroeconomic parameters including growth. The model is likely to be used as part of the plea for the European Commission. As far as the investment clause is concerned, the paper position proposed by the Federal Government aims to allow Belgium to divert 0.5% of GDP from its path towards the MTO, this only once and only for investments with a major economic impact. The conditions proposed by the federal government to support this flexibility are, however, strict. I also have more detailed notes at the disposal of those who wish to do so. We are in close discussion with the federated entities on the subject. Last night, meetings of experts were still held in an attempt to identify a common position. As I note that significant progress has been made, I hope that at the next Consultation Committee in March we will be able to make progress and perhaps even validate this common paper position, which would be a strong and important signal to the European bodies in favour of the advocacy that we want to lead. We therefore find the essence of the policy that the government wants to pursue in terms of economic recovery: consolidation and structural measures to stabilise public finances in the short and long term and, in a second phase, support for recovery by increasing strategic public investments, of course, but also private ones. We will, of course, continue our efforts with this coherence. In addition to these activities, which are vital for public investment in our country, each entity in this country has drawn up a list of priority projects that it considers strategic. This is a very important point. You may recall that, at the end of summer 2017, I announced in Parliament my call to federal departments and federated entities, so that the first indicative and non-exhaustive lists... Is there a translation problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u3	Minister, I am the interpreter's spokesman. Your microphone would be misguided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u4	Mr Laaouej, I always appreciate your wise advice on the microphone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u5	It's an electronic agreement!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u6	Temporary! I was therefore referring to this call made at the end of last summer, so that both federal departments and the governments of the federated entities could mobilize efforts to present indicative and non-exhaustive lists of priority projects corresponding to the axes considered strategic by the various entities. We have made progress in this regard, since these projects by 2020-2021 already amount to more than EUR 9 billion, including more than EUR 1.7 billion at the federal level. The purpose today is not to detail all the projects and certainly not those of the federated entities, since they are competent in their sovereignty to present the details of the implementation and the choices that have been made. As far as the federal side is concerned, you know that alongside the three priorities that I have consistently recalled (mobility, digital agenda, energy transition), there is also this security concern with a particular focus on cybersecurity. This is an extremely important point on which the CWB will be fully mobilised as well. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to the third point, namely the European Commission. In this regard, in recent weeks we have continued the contacts which have increased at both the political and technical levels. The federal government has put forward an operational proposal to move forward. The aim is to organise a technical workshop at DG ECFIN, the Commission's administration responsible for budgetary and economic matters. This workshop should enable all the entities of the country, the governments of the federated entities, the federal government and the experts to present their projects and thus gather the reactions of European technicians. This will allow the list to be adapted as much as possible in order to maximise the chances, in a more formal phase, that the investment package, as presented by the federal government and the federated entities, can be more widely taken into account by the European Commission and be subject to flexibility in the context of budgetary trajectories. The workshop will also provide an opportunity to clarify crucial elements, such as, for example, the definition of an investment, in addition to accounting aspects, since the criteria for selecting investments have already fallen under the flexibility clause for other Member States – other Member States have made reasoning and investments that have, or have not, been taken into account by the European Commission – and, finally, the method of budgetary evaluation of investment projects by the European Commission. As I mentioned earlier, the list of investments in this first package is based on the first elements of the strategic committee within the framework of the two notes to the government, which we already received in September and December. The first list is above all an instrument to show European bodies that our policies are coherent and that, with our intention to change certain rules, we want above all to implement concrete projects that will have a real positive impact on growth in the short and long term. It is of course obvious that this first list, in my view, must be able to be dynamic, scalable and adapted in the light of the report that will be received in June from the strategic committee, which will more precisely identify strategic recommendations, I referred to earlier. I turn now to a few points that relate to the measures already taken for some of them or which are likely to be taken in the near future by the federal government, in relation to investment strategies. In parallel with all this work - the strategic committee, the consultation committee and the dialogue with the European Commission, which must be coherent and synchronised but which are developing in parallel - it is important that progress can also be made quickly on certain issues. Firstly, I had the opportunity to announce, on behalf of the government, in Paris, at the last climate summit on 12 December, that Belgium was going to issue its first Green OLO on international markets in the coming weeks. The procedure was launched at the beginning of the year, as we had committed ourselves to it. Our country, I want to mention, will become the second sovereign issuer of the euro area after France. This is an important point to highlight. These obligations will, in particular, contribute to the financing of green projects which are or will be identified in the framework of the investment pact. Secondly, in terms of the means of financing, the State, through the Société fédérale de Participations et d'Investissement, is endeavouring to set up two large specific investment funds. This is a subject on which I am working personally, in close cooperation with the Minister of Finance. A first fund of an initial desired size of 500 million euros aims to support growing companies, scale-up companies, which are too often forgotten. This is the diagnosis of some investors. The second fund, with an initial size of around EUR 150 million, should aim at financing major infrastructure projects in Belgium. Thirdly, within the framework of the economic recovery law that was recently passed in the House, the financing of growing companies has been made easier thanks to the measures you are probably aware of, namely those relating to the attractiveness and development of private pricafs or the reduction of the minimum investment threshold in private pricafs from EUR 100 000 to EUR 25 000 or other tax measures for certain companies, in particular for starters or other forms of growing enterprises. That, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in four main points, articulated in four areas, is the way in which, in recent months, we have advanced this ambition and this objective of making this investment pact operational. This is also the horizon ahead - the meetings with the European Commission, the strategic committee and the consultation committee - to ensure that this investment pact is a dynamic and as operational work as possible. I am pleased to have the opportunity to hear comments, suggestions and questions from Parliament. As I said, I hope that we can also examine how we can pursue, as far as possible, support, support and follow-up from the federal parliament. Indeed, this pact, which is a little new in its method, its objectives and its conception, will, I hope, go through the conventional majority-opposition currents, will also cross the currents of the public-private sector and will be part of an approach that aims, in the medium and long term, to support a dynamic of growth and a sound dynamic, at the service of the objectives that have been defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u7	Mr President, three questions from myself have been added to the exchange of views. I will integrate them into my speech. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your explanation. You quoted a number of documents. For the moment, we have only received the technical note from the Planning Bureau on budgetary rules. It could facilitate future work if we could also obtain a number of other documents. I am particularly interested in the list of priority projects. We are already seeing a certain impact in the press today, but that is something I would like to ask you. You know that our group is a great supporter of the principle of a national investment plan. That's what happened at the launch. I think we were perhaps the most enthusiastic in the class back then. In the meantime, this has proved to be the case a number of times, including in the presentation of our own investment plan, and this is, of course, still the case. Although there are certainly a number of elements that interest us, I am not under any illusions that I am somewhat concerned on certain points and that the investment plan might even give the critics who were one from day one, the scepticism that existed from day one. Since it is still our hope not to see that happen, I want to focus on a number of concerns at this stage. In the first, smallest order, that is political inclusiveness. This monthly session was part of the trident agreed within the Conference of Presidents. There was also a number of other agreements, in particular the active invitation of all political groups to make proposals and to engage in dialogue at a more technical level. I would like to invite you to operationalize that trident and respect the commitments in that regard. That is one way of working on the political inclusiveness of this plan. It's a long-term plan, let's hope. It is unlikely, especially in our political system, that, as far as I am concerned, coalitions will not remain the same. That is a first point. Second point. I have to say that the figures seem to contradict the discourse. Our group has made the exercise to look up Eurostat's latest figures on public investment. The recently published figures of 2016 show that, despite the discourse on more investments, the share of public investment falls by comparison with the figures of 2015. I'd be happy to share the note. Both regionally, federally and locally, we're pretty much in the middle of the legislature. The legislative cycle can therefore no longer be used as an argument for a declining level of investment. This level of investment is decreasing, both in absolute terms and in GDP ratio. In 2016, there were 9,31 billion euros of public investment. That's 238 million less than in 2015. In terms of GDP, this was 2.35 % in 2015, falling back to a historically low level of 2.22%. And this at a time when everyone is full of investment. The figures for the first part of the legislature show that the promises are not being fulfilled at all. My second, more important comment is that sense of urgency. I don't think it's present enough. In my view, there is insufficient awareness, both politically and economically, that the decline in the share of public investment is a huge problem for our country. With this level of investment, we are just patching up, repairing, without additional investment. Thirdly, if you look at the figures, I am concerned about the share of public investment by local authorities. It can be seen that there is a major relapse in particular. There too, we are talking about the middle of the legislature, so we cannot say that there is a reason why we did not invest. Compared to the previous legislature, the local authorities really have a problem. In 2016, there were net 1 billion euros less investments than in 2012. In part, you are also at the root of this by means of a number of federal measures, i.e. fire zones, civil servants' pensions, etc., which reduce the investment space for local authorities. This is a point I should like to draw your attention to today. We need to look for new instruments to increase the investment space for local authorities. In this respect, I would like to promote an MR proposal recently submitted by the Finance Committee, namely for the creation of a VAT compensation fund for local authorities. In doing so, VAT on investments by local authorities would be offset for the benefit of local authorities for energy efficiency, provided that they have concluded a Covenant of Mayors and have climate ambitions. Local authorities and their investment power deserve much more attention in the investment pact than is the case today. This requires new instruments. It would also be interesting to involve local authorities in the work of the Strategic Committee, for example by involving the VVSG and its Walloon counterpart, also because local investments are often genuinely local investments and are much more familiar with local operators and thus contribute more directly to the real economy. Fourthly, consistency with other plans and routes. You yourself say that there are already nine working groups. You'll understand I'll be a little skeptical by then. One of the working groups is that around the energy transition, but at the same time the Energy Pact is being rolled out, and at the moment I do not see any coherence or political coordination between them. I have always said, both in open meetings and in more informal meetings with you, that the Energy Pact should be one of the central pillars of the Investment Pact for us. We are discussing the investment pact with you this morning and this afternoon we are discussing the Energy Pact with Minister Marghem. This coherence must be brought about as a matter of urgency. My penultimate point concerns choices. My curiosity about the list of priority projects is, of course, based on the content of an article in Le Soir today. For example, I read that one of the priority projects would be Myrrha. That worries me, because that is not the investment pact that we have in mind. Since 2009, the Nuclear Research Centre has been begging all over Europe to raise funds for Myrrha, but we cannot do that for the very simple reason that we live in a post-nuclear world. We live in a post-nuclear world and Myrrha doesn't really have a future in it. However, that is one of the priority projects that you are putting forward, I read today in Le Soir. I am very concerned about the choices that are being made in this regard. For now these are not our choices, while one of the great exercises of the strategic investment pact is where we want to play in the Champions League. I have used that metaphor a few times and Mr Timmermans has taken it over at his passage in the Chamber. In which sectors do we want to play in the Champions League? For us this is not with Myrrha, because with it we will not even play Europe League in 2030. Myrrha is passé, nuclear is passé, so we need to identify new forward-looking sectors, as far as possible at the intersection of energy, digital and mobility. That brings me, for example, to the suggestion that this was one of my oral questions to put your shoulders under the whole idea of the battery factory. One of the proposals we have made in our own investment plan, BE.invest, is to make this one of the spearheads. In renewable energy systems and in a mobility story with electric cars, battery technology and battery production are the new gold. Historically, Belgium has a number of assets, such as Umicore and Solvay. There are also new players, such as EnergyVille, who can put their shoulders on it. One of those Belgian players, Umicore, has the ambition to create a battery factory in Europe. I believe that we must make this a priority. However, that is not in Le Soir today. Myrrha's in Le Soir, but the battery factory isn't in it. I also read, colleagues, that sites such as Genk and Antwerp already consider themselves candidates. Caterpillar's site also has a lot of opportunities to host such a factory and technology. There is an important role for you there, to avoid an idea everywhere, but nowhere at the end of the day there is a plan. For me, that's one of the absolute touchstones. We need to get the battery plant in. She needs to be one of the spearheads. It is a personal challenge for you to get everyone politically on the same page. That is the role of the Investment Pact and the role of the Prime Minister in such an exercise. One final point, Prime Minister, is the investment standard. If we want to reverse the falling figures that I have just faced you with, then we need a political and social agreement on this. As we have also agreed on a standard on labour costs, we also need a standard on the share of public investment, not because that figure is a fetish, but because we need agreements to release these resources in the short, medium and long term and to pay attention to it. Public investment will always be the first to die at the end of the journey in the umpteenth budget round, unless such an investment standard is introduced. It was in our plan. In the meantime, I have read that Geert Bourgeois, in addition to relaxing the budgetary rules for Oosterweel, is also calling for a new investment standard. I think it is a good thing that nationalism is being dosed somewhat, because Bourgeois Oosterweel has to realize. So he is beginning to have an objective interest in getting into that exercise. I also read his suggestion that such an investment standard should be agreed. I think we absolutely need it. For us, this could even be part of a more integrated 1996 law, which considers public investment as an important parameter for our competitiveness. These were a number of points of interest and questions, which are kindly formulated, but which are very fundamental and very sharp in substance. I am not hiding the fact that we are still a very big fan of the idea of an investment pact. I have said it before, but I am a little tired of discussing tunnels that fall apart and the crushing of cracks in nuclear power stations. I think we have more potential in our country than that. For the time being, I do not get the feeling that your pact is responding to these challenges. I believe that a more inclusive way of working and picking up some of our concerns and perhaps those of colleagues is necessary in order to come up with a real future plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u8	Mr President, I have tabled two questions to the Prime Minister in connection with the investment pact. Prime Minister, we share the need, and we appreciate the fact that you are personally moaning in the search for an inter-federal investment pact. Mr Calvo recalled the figures, which are very bad, including in recent years. But we're not here for criticism, we're here for construction. With this in mind, the questions I have put were, on the one hand, a specific sector, which we believe is part of the main orientations of a forward-looking investment pact, and, on the other hand, a financing tool, which you have not necessarily developed in your speech. In addition to the questions I tabled last week, what comes out this morning in the press has something to question us, at least on the energy side. I believe that the multiplication of sectors is not a good idea. I liked it when you assumed that there were three sectors: mobility, energy and digitalisation. We feel like we're dispersing now, talking about cybersecurity, for example. I'm not saying it's not important, but in the context of an investment pact, I'm afraid we're starting to sprinkle, especially in view of what's been presented at Walloon level. But we are here in federal jurisdiction. I do not understand the choice that you have made to highlight an investment in Myrrha and that you are ignoring the aspect concerning demand management and battery development needs, while politicians presented themselves to the European Commission less than ten days ago around this issue and that Belgian private actors have also positioned themselves. In addition, the Commission has just said that there would need to be about 10 locations throughout Europe where large battery manufacturing industries would be installed. In our plan, there is a proposal for the Caterpillar site – where the workforce is available – to accommodate this kind of plant. When we talked about it, you were open. I would like you to take advantage of your presence with us to fill this gap. For having practiced this exercise in the past, I know that these are contingencies. Today, you're not limited by space issues, so I'd like to know what's going on. You may act in discretion, and I can understand it. However, the economic challenge requires clarification, as several national companies are also asking for. This not only responds to energy transition needs, but also to an economic imperative. Secondly, I would like to ask you about one of the financing instruments. We know that private money must of course be mobilised, since we are not talking about a plan based solely on public expenditure. In L'Echo on 16 February, the creation of an infrastructure fund by AG Insurance, SFPI and Synatom was discussed. This is a good idea, which is also included in our plan – which you have had the opportunity to read. However, I am surprised by the small amounts involved: EUR 150 million for these three entities. I'm just taking the case of Synatom. For the time being, more than €9.4 billion has been invested in this facility, coming from the electricity consumers' pocket. Between 2040 and 2140, they will have to be used for the management of nuclear waste. Prime Minister, if you place your investment pact in the perspective of the energy transition, is it not possible to mobilise all of Synatom's resources to finance it, especially as we know the profitability of it? In this way, through the Synatom fund, the nuclear power that has already been used could contribute to the energy transition. Other countries are in the process of imagining such a strategy for financing the energy transition, thanks to the money that is being repatriated to their respective national banks. I feel a shudder in our country, but admit that we could significantly increase the amount planned, in this case 50 million for Synatom, compared to the $9.4 billion raised by the fund. Prime Minister, in order not to have to raise too much public money, do you not think that there is a sufficiently broad fund – including with economic actors, including ENGIE – that would finance the transition other than by simply mobilising 50 million? Nevertheless, I think the door that opens is interesting and you should set foot in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your explanation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to endorse what Mr Calvo said. It is very necessary for an investment fund and a global investment policy of the federal government to be put in place, of course in consultation and in cooperation with the Länder. It is also very necessary to raise the issue at European level, and to look for levers, in order to make investment a reality. When I look at the file remotely, for the sake of clarity, I am not a specialist, we note that we do indeed need to invest. However, we must also consider the challenges for the future. Part of that consideration is taken into account. After all, you state that the federal government will invest in digitisation, energy and mobility and that it will develop tools not only to work with public resources, but also to create levers in cooperation with the private sector. From this point of view, it would be obvious to consider how to achieve integration of the various objectives with the various partners, namely the Länder but also private investors, and with other instruments. I'm declaring myself. One of the main lines is all that has to do with energy. Mr Calvo has already referred to the Energy Pact. It is rather important to ensure that a lot of energy does not have to be used. In the past, attention has been paid to the quality of housing in our country. There are a lot of homes in our country that are not isolated and consume a lot of energy. There is a spatial planning system in our country which does not play a role in the energy field. How can we invest in this in cooperation with the Länder? This creates jobs. For the sake of clarity, employment is also being created for new groups in society. I know that in our country there is a lot of talk about migration but very little about integration as well as about integration into the labour market. This perspective must also be taken into account in investment policy. It is true that there is an investment shortage in the local authorities. In the recent period of government, they have had to turn off many cash taps due to challenges such as pensions. I therefore believe that consultation with the VVSG and similar organisations is absolutely necessary. As far as the Myrrha project is concerned, maybe I don't understand or it hasn't been properly explained. A fund has been created, Synatom, which is responsible not only for financing the closure of nuclear reactors but also for the processing of nuclear waste. Engie-Electrabel is funding that fund. 75% of the fund is intended to make investments in this area, but 25% of the fund should be used for the energy transition, the transition to other energy sources. Now I read that one of the proposed investment projects involves the development of a new nuclear reactor. Perhaps I misunderstood that; I am certainly not the only one. I find this a strange dynamic: money intended to develop other energy sources is put back into the development of nuclear reactors via a detour. So I don't really see much difference. But maybe the communication needs to be changed? Finally, to what extent are public transport investments included in the Oosterweel project? I can imagine, Prime Minister, that you are not very familiar with the Oosterweel dossier, but there is absolutely no need for additional investments in public transport, both at De Lijn at Flemish level and at SNCB at federal level, in order to complete the Oosterweel dossier properly. I do not know if you are following the local news, but if the accidents at De Lijn had happened yesterday in Antwerp in Brussels, the first page of the newspapers would have shown how badly Brussels is run, while Brussels is ten times better than Antwerp in terms of public transport. There is also the SNCB. I suppose you don't take much on the train, but we sometimes seem to be transported in painted and rusted containers rather than in trains. There are therefore many opportunities to create jobs and to meet mobility and energy challenges.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u10	Prime Minister, I will make a few comments about your presentation. The list of things you wanted to communicate includes specific projects. Could we have your memo on these communications to the House this morning? It would be interesting to distribute this document to the members of the Commission. I take it from your presentation that, depending on the European and budgetary constraints, you will have to go through a real race of obstacles in order to try to achieve the objective which is yours, and which is also ours. We are involved in this national strategic investment pact. You will have to convince European bodies of the validity of the pact, in financial and budgetary terms, in terms of standards, etc. We are waiting for your strength of conviction to explain this pact to other European countries. I would like to ask you a question about the necessary coordination work that you mentioned, in terms of the consultation committee, the strategic committee, the federal level and other stakeholders. You have cited four instances in this regard. As far as we are concerned, we are involved in the federated entities and we are working on them. We are pursuing this goal with you, but I would like you, as Prime Minister of the federal entity, and of the country as a whole, to pay attention to projects that involve the various entities of the country in a mixed manner. Indeed, this approach seems important to me. The consultation committee should not be the only one to say what will be done in the North, the South and the Centre. Look at the Belgian companies. They usually have several branches, several subsidiaries in the different entities of the country. This national strategic investment plan should combine all data and all projects, whether they emerge from the North, South or Central. You should be the unifying actor in this context, with the government. Let us take only one example, which the press has recently mentioned: workers from the North work in the South and vice versa. There is a real will for mixed projects. Having said that, you referred to the fact that we are going to have to propose margins that would be subject to the agreement of the European Union. In the negotiations, are structural reforms called for by the European Union? If so, which ones? Can we provide more information on this subject? Could these changes in standards be conditioned by structural reforms? I would now like to go back to the projects that we learned about in Le Soir today. I will not quote them here as they are included in the note you are going to forward to us. I draw your attention here to the risk of dispersion. In my view, a mass effect and a leverage effect are necessary to achieve a virtuous circle effect. I ask you to pay attention to this dimension, which must have repercussions for the citizen. Indeed, if we had a real investment project in the regions - in the North, in the South, in the Centre - we could have a mobilization of private savings. I didn't hear you on the subject. Here we are talking about projects to improve the daily lives of Belgians where they are. Is this mobilization of savings part of your strategic plan? This is how I come to my penultimate comment on investment. You are well aware that investments in our country are largely the result of local authorities working where citizens live and trying to meet their daily needs. We must therefore not disempower these investments, which must be used by everyone. What is your willingness to coordinate with local authorities? Would you like to look at how investments can be made that serve citizens and that are implemented directly where they live. This is about a return to the citizen. Finally, you will continue to work with the four committees discussed earlier. Shouldn't the paper position that you are going to draft and that you will present to the European Union be able, perhaps, like that of the federated entities and mixed projects that federated the whole country, to receive the approval of the parliament after discussion and thus to be able to be carried by the whole political class, of all colours and of whatever geographical location? Prime Minister, we must put on your side, on our side, since this concerns the whole country, all the chances for it to succeed. Indeed, we know the difficulty - as you have said - that we are encountering at European Union level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u11	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that the public investments as presented here are, in my view, part of a Keynesian approach, which I think should be welcomed. Indeed, we cannot say that, so far, the economic policies pursued at European level, with this kind of particularly restrictive budgetary orthodoxy, have proved their effectiveness or their result. Yes, the 2008 financial crisis called for a consolidation of public finances due to the increase in public debt in the various Member States. On the other hand, a number of difficulties in different countries could threaten, let us say, the survival of the euro. Indeed, it can be understood that budgetary constraints must necessarily be tightened a little, but at the same time this may have been done at the cost of a slowdown in the recovery of the economy in a number of States. Overall, in Europe, it is sufficient to compare the observable growth rates in the euro area with other economic areas of the world which do not have the same constraints and which, however, also experienced the negative effects of the 2008 financial crisis. Let us rejoice. Whether it is the Juncker plan, whether it is the plan that is proposed here, let us rejoice that they decide to bring back to the taste of the day the virtues of public investment which combines, as explained in the note, both the promises of support for economic recovery with notable returns – I will return to it because there are two or three elements that I do not understand in the note – and the meeting of a number of needs. We need to improve the quality of our public infrastructure, to invest in a number of future areas such as the energy transition. So there are two effects and two virtuous objectives. My first question, Prime Minister, concerns the place of local authorities. There is a question of consultation with the federated entities, but what about the local authorities? Let me make it clear that this is the first time I have spoken in this debate; therefore, if it has already been mentioned, consider that my speech is overabundant. However, I am asking the question. In one way or another, are local authorities and the financing capacities they may also have, given that they devote a great deal of resources to public investment, integrated into the thinking? If so, how? If not, why? Secondly, you mention this in your note, but I do not understand very well what leads you to ask for a easing of the budget path of 0.5%. I understand the general principle for a number of reasons and consider that you are right to ask for it. However, your note mentions public investment spending alongside capital expenditures, which will be financed largely – even if not exclusively – through debt. This will therefore affect the development of the public debt rate, not the structural deficit. How do you articulate the need for a easing of 0.5% with the need for a non-allocation of the structural deficit by your capital expenditure? Of course, I exclude any additional interest charges. In other words, does this 0.5% correspond to a significant increase in these? That would surprise me, because such a rate would imply 2.4 billion increases in those charges. So that can't be an explanation. My third question is technical and does not necessarily call for an immediate answer. On page 6, the assessments of the macroeconomic impact of investments made by the Planning Office "in accordance with the Commission's methodology" are reported. However, we know that the Planning Office is developing a model in this area that is absolutely unique to it. In the case of a public investment of 0.5% of GDP, there is a multiplier effect allowing an increase in the volume of GDP of 2.77% after 20 years. In other words, a euro invested during this period would yield just over 5.5. Having said that, I imagine we're talking about common prices. Therefore, in the course of future work, it would seem wise to indicate the macroeconomic impacts at current prices and constant prices, in order to neutralise the effects of inflation and to identify the real value added of investments. However, the note presented here is nuanced and recalls that this type of assessment depends on many parameters that are well explained on page 7. It includes the choice of public investment. That is why I would say that if we want to find a balance between the desire to revive the economy and the desire to satisfy collective needs, we must make the variable "budget efficiency", implying economic efficiency, more than influent or even decisive. This question does not necessarily call for an answer today, but it is important to clarify this point. Secondly, why would the Plan Bureau now use the European Commission's model rather than its own? The latter seemed to me to be more advantageous in terms of results. This does not mean that it is more relevant, but its figures were much more interesting. Today's Evening mentions them and recalls the multiplier effects identified by the Planning Office. It seems to me that these are not the figures that are found in the note before us, unless there is a mistake on my part. Fourthly, the press is bringing in a former UCL economist who now works for a large bank. He recommended that attention be paid, as the government was about to ask for a easing of the fiscal trajectory, while the figures of the evolution of that trajectory, announced by the Budget Minister, might be a little too optimistic. A number of identifiable but non-renewable factors would explain the temporary improvement in the fiscal trajectory, which could, on the contrary, be aggravated by changes in the international context and other parameters. Basically, the economist's reasoning is that the fiscal trajectory is not stabilized today. It is not certain enough that it will be able to meet Europe and ask for a precise easing of 0.5. This may prove to be insufficient ex post facto. How are you going to combine the temporarily static approach, that is, the way you're cliching the situation right now, and that moving side, although things are not contradictory? I want the situation to improve, but it could actually get worse. Be careful not to take any steps towards the Commission on grounds which would not be sufficiently certain! You are going to tell me that there is no certainty about the budget. That's right. However, it seems to me that this analysis is important to consider. In conclusion, Mr President, I wonder whether the Committee on the Interior would benefit from meeting jointly with the Committee on Finance and the Budget on this matter. Indeed, the two cases are intimately linked. We see it at the reading of the note. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u12	Mr Laaouej, I will look at the latter and, of course, I will also present it to the Conference of Presidents. We shall then see to what extent this is useful and desirable for which part. In principle, that is not a problem, but it is not up to us to decide on this alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me make a comparison with the United States of America. A few days ago, the President of the United States of America spoke at a conference of local governments and the private sector, where he gathered everyone behind the idea of investing in the States. Perhaps it is a coincidence of circumstances and I will not make any further comparisons because I do not want to embarrass anyone. The idea is at least on the agenda in the European Union and in the United States of America. That is why I think it is right that you have put forward the idea of the pact. For the past few weeks and months, you have worked hard on its content. Secondly, the private sector is particularly interested, of course more specifically in the way in which it will have to be paid, financed and invested. In my opinion, investment pacts should lead to the use of resources in public infrastructure, which is also a concern of the private sector. Recently I attended a meeting where quite a few managers were present. Well, while the last few years have always been the focus of labour costs and competitiveness in discussions with business leaders, this meeting raised concerns about the quality of public transport. This proves, moreover, that the government has made considerable efforts in terms of labour costs and competitiveness. The quality of public transport must improve the attractiveness of our economy and in this respect investment in, for example, De Lijn and SNCB is necessary in the coming weeks and months. In addition to the measures we have already taken, we can still boost the growth rate which is rising if we can present a strong investment pact. Thirdly, it is important to bring all the governments, not just the Länder, around the table. Several speakers have already mentioned the important role of local authorities. To what extent, Prime Minister, will you involve local authorities in the further operationalisation of the Pact? I would like to refer specifically to the budgetary rules which apply, which come from Europe for a short while and which contain limits. In view of our sovereign debt, it is not the time for our country to have the reins celebrated, on the one hand, but we should not be more Catholic than the Pope, on the other. As mayor, I have always had difficulty with the rules of the BBC accounting system, the rules of accounting that apply and which mean that we have to assume investments in one financial year. That doesn't make any sense to me. I remember statements by Professor Moesen, with the distinction between current expenditure and capital expenditure. Such capital expenditure can, of course, be ventilated over several years, just like a private or a company. My question to you is very specific. If we have to take effective account of budgetary Orthodoxy, what can we do to ensure that local authorities, which are necessary partners for the implementation of your pact, are not hindered by too strict a interpretation? It's a bit of a contradiction. I see that the Flemish Government does not include the Oosterweel link in the budget, and therefore keeps the project out of the budget and calls on the European authorities to be lenient. On the other hand, the same Flemish government, as guardian of cities and municipalities, preaches the hard line and maintains the rules of the BBC accounting system. That is a point to be made at a forthcoming meeting. Prime Minister, the last point I would like to raise relates to the challenges of digitalisation. In this respect, important investments by Proximus are coming. And in Flanders, Telenet faces the challenge of effectively investing in the future. The Flemish government has plans and insights to invest in cable networks, as a public government. If we look at the history of the Flemish cable, it was called coax cable then, this was the result and product of efforts of various intercommunals. These were brought together and Telenet started surfing figuratively. However, Proximus' offer has become much more versatile. I would like to warn against a situation in which our operators Telenet and Proximus are going to invest, possibly with an effort by the Flemish government. Where's the connection? We must therefore at some point say that we need a high-quality cable network and ensure that the various operators make agreements. It will then become like a motorway, in the sense that the infrastructure will be built by public authorities and private individuals together and rules will then be agreed on who is allowed to drive on the motorway. It would be a bit absurd, because of the difficult state structure in our country, to enter some kind of competition. These are a few points of interest and questions, in which the question of the involvement of local authorities is particularly important. Contact with the federal governments is a good step, but direct contact with local authorities should also be possible. Once again, they are seriously handicapped in Flanders by very strict rules on budgeting and accounting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u14	Prime Minister, this government has put a great deal of effort into eliminating the wage handicap. It is indeed the challenge of your government, but also of others, to remove the investment handicap. Several speakers have already referred to our delay in relation to the EU and, more importantly, to our neighbouring countries, all of which are making progress. Look at the ambitions of investment in France. If we are going to increase, we may only maintain the existing backlog. The figures you gave, Prime Minister, which I regard as dynamic, may need to be upgraded in the long term, given what the neighbouring countries are doing. The question is what role the federal government should play in this. Prime Minister, you have been the inspirator and the stimulator. That is important and the first role of the federal government. If we look at the investment impact of purely public investment in our country, in various areas of competence, then the Government of Buildings, Public Enterprises and Defence are important federal investors but the big investors are with the Länder and local authorities. We are primarily inspirator, stimulator and co-actor, but not the main co-actor. In that respect, it is important that when we sit at the table with the other governments, we sit there as equals. Other colleagues have just spoken about the local authorities. This is a momentum. I hear some, including in my group, talk about an investment standard. I'm not against that a priori at all. More than that, I believe in appointments. Now that a lot of political parties are preparing local programmes and perhaps regional and federal programmes, it is time, if possible before the summer, to establish an agreement framework with local and regional authorities, not an investment standard that we impose from above as a rule, but an agreement standard on investment. As a result, any local government that will be joining and later any regional and federal executive would feel obliged to meet that standard and there would be a competition to be the best and do the most. Then I think that the federal government and you as Prime Minister have an important role to play in ensuring that they do not stick together and that they all go in the same direction, which is an important and difficult task. In that case, it is not just about pennies. Of course it's about pennies, but it's also about permits, for example. An investment can be planned and provided for in budgets, but if everything is brought to a halt in five or ten years' time, it would be painful. There we are not only actor, but also the regional authorities actor. How can we create a regulatory framework that provides legal protection for citizens, and certainly for entrepreneurs, but that does not create too high a threshold that prevents investment? Prime Minister, you have made choices and we support those strategic choices on mobility, energy transition, digitalisation. However, there has also been talk of health, education, safety and justice. As far as we're concerned, these are transversal. I'd like to point out a case. If we look at the current figures, we are record-holders in job vacancies and our unemployment is falling, but there is still a significant group of unemployed, which is diametrically opposed to the open vacancies. It is a challenge to invest in it so that we could have a multiplier effect if we could match both sides better. I think that there could be a win-win in terms of quality of life and quantity. With regard to the basic principles, Prime Minister, you spoke about growth promotion and multiplier effects. It is not just about financial and economic multiplier effects. It is an incentive for others to invest as well. How can we inspire others to be with the actor? I am thinking of Belfius, pension funds and individuals. In the 21st century is cooperative in. Often one has success, but sometimes not for various reasons. One should never throw the child away with the bath water. I think that could be an important actor. Sometimes people feel a little too little involved in politics, and we may have to plead guilty for that; I am ready to take up the gauntlet in this matter. In any case, when people invest, they feel involved and will be more likely to invest even more. So there seems to be an opportunity there. You also said in December, Prime Minister, that the multiplier effect will be crucial to convince Europe of the need for some budget cuts. What is the result of your contacts in this area? Mr President, it was really not my intention to talk about concrete projects. The newspaper is not always the source of inspiration for me to contribute to the debate, but some colleagues have, of course, provoked me. I am therefore obliged to respond to an article in Le Soir, which had escaped me. Some fellow Members were very negative about the Myrrha project. I myself will always be a liar of that. I believe that an important project, Mr Prime Minister, will be available to our country at a later date on any energy applications. I hope that they will be alternatives very often, if possible, let there be no misunderstanding. But post-nuclear society is never going to happen. We need nuclear resources, at least for non-energy applications. In this respect, we are a global player. In the field of scientific research, too, we are a global player and we must retain this role, which is why future investment in this area is highly desirable in my view.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u15	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for the presentation this morning. Your various ads can obviously please us. I would like to stress the importance of these regular exchanges of views with Parliament. You committed yourself to it from the moment you launched the idea of this national strategic investment pact. Our debates attest to the interest of parliamentarians in this pact, which is intended to unite. More specifically, I had some points of attention on the briefing note. When presenting the last report of the Strategic Committee by MM. Timmermans and Delbaere, the question of European budgetary rules had been addressed and, in particular, the impact of European constraints in terms of public investment. The reading of the information note has therefore caught our attention in several respects, in particular on budgetary rules, but also on the conditions for the efficiency of these investments. These are, of course, two fundamental questions. I think we can, here, all of us and all of us recognize it. As far as the European framework is concerned, you have given us a number of principles that will have to guide us in order to fully appreciate the economic and institutional environment in which this pact will be called upon to take action. We have also taken note of the ways in which the margins for public investment expenditure in European legislation are widened. It appears that the credibility of any proposal to adjust these budgetary rules, aimed at supporting public investment, is conditional on compliance with two criteria. First, adaptation must be such as to support public investment efforts or promote the transition to a higher level of public investment expenditure. Second, these public investments must achieve maximum added value in terms of economic potential or other objectives. We also stress the importance of taking into account the conditions that can promote the efficiency of public investment in our future work. This question must all lead us here: how are we going to select these projects? As indicated in the briefing note, these choices are not obvious. As you said, the Commission highlights a number of principles. They can also serve as a compass. I'm quoting a few of them. Projects must correspond to clearly identified objectives. They must be financed on the basis of available budgetary margins. Both the question of their implementation and their follow-up should not be neglected. Finally, these projects will also have to benefit from diversified sources of funding. On this last issue, the previous report of the Strategic Committee was clearly marked - it had been mentioned here in committee when Messrs. Timmermans and Delbaere came - that the issue is the ambition to create a virtuous circle in which both public and private partners would have their full place. Of course, our group is particularly sensitive to this approach. We have already supported it on several occasions. On behalf of my group, I would also like to highlight the agreement reached on EUR 9 billion by 2020, including EUR 1.7 billion for the federal government. These are significant amounts that bode well for the future. As for the working method, we obviously welcome the setting up of these different working groups on the various topics you have discussed, with a particular focus on mobility, the digital agenda and the energy transition, not to mention security and cybersecurity. We are also at the heart of the news. I also stress the importance of involving a number of experts from both civil society and the private sector, who attest to their serious involvement but also to the anchoring of the socio-economic reality of our country. For all these reasons, Prime Minister, we would like to thank you for the work already undertaken but also for these moments of exchange with Parliament because we have here, all of us, a common objective, that of carrying together, beyond partisan divisions, a vision for the future that is both unifying and ambitious for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u16	Anyone else asking for the floor? [[No, no, ……]] Allow me to say a few things myself, as I announced. Prime Minister, I take note of the state of play and the clear steps taken. You referred to the nine working groups on which Mr Calvo made a comment. Of these nine working groups there are six thematic working groups. Five of these themes are already known from the previous start note. You added Justice and Security to it. Especially in the light of what we have been through and the challenges ahead, I think that is a good thing. What I have certainly voted in favour is that you have announced that you will be presenting a full report by April 2018, including with economic and social returns. To concreteize this, you have added le plus rapidement and des mesures très concrètes. Thus we do not stick in generalities, but we arrive as soon as possible at realizations on the ground. If nine working groups are needed to achieve rapid results, I think that is a good thing, and I would rather see that than one small committee, where implementation takes much longer, because that is not what we are here for. The change we need is too immense. Now I come to the resources that are needed for this. There were general reservations about this. We must also take into account the European context of budgetary rigidity and our enormous public debt. I wonder where the funds will come from and to what extent they will soon be entered in budgets of the federal government or of the governments of the Communities and the regions. Reference was also made to the importance of local government. Well, I would like to refer to the study published in September 2016 in the 'Economic Magazine' of the National Bank of Belgium by four authors, entitled "Should public investment be stimulated?" That article literally states that in 2015, public investment amounted to more than half of the Regions and the Communities. A third comes from the local authorities. Only 10% of total public investment, including social security, which in itself invests little, comes from the federal government. The main focus of implementation is therefore with the local authorities and with the regions and the Communities. From the federal government we have our own coordinating role to play, but the focus is not on our level. It is therefore important to know to what extent regional and local authorities are prepared to participate and to make concrete budgetary commitments. Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois of Flanders pointed out in December, not so long ago, that it would be useful and necessary to impose an investment standard, to determine the percentage of GDP that is actually used for public investment. In several studies, both from the Planning Bureau and the National Bank and others, it has been pointed out how quickly the disinvestment took place. We have once chosen the easy solution to reduce investment of 5% of GDP, as in the 1970s and 1980s among the Dehaene governments, to 2% and less. Now we are really hanging on in Europe. It must be our ambition to achieve at least the European average again, and if it is possible to do a catch-up operation to join the countries that surround us more. France and the Netherlands each invest 3.5 %. We must also go in that direction. There is a demand for a higher standard from the Flemish Region. Others have also talked about what percentage of GDP we should aim for. Are figures agreed in the Global Pact for this purpose? Or should we allow each region to decide for itself how that will happen, without any coordination? I wonder what percentage we will be aiming for in the short term, two or three years, and what percentage we will be aiming for in 10 years' time. What about specifically for the federal government? What are the prospects? Finally, you have announced that lists of priority proposals will be drawn up. You said you can't give them yet. My main question then is from when can you make that list available to the federal section, and from when for the Communities and the Regions, and by extension for local authorities? I also have a thought. You know my deep concern about cyber security. I'm questioning you almost every meeting about that. You have announced, in response to one of my questions, that cybersecurity will indeed be incorporated into the National Pact for Strategic Investments. That is a very good thing. After all, we know the risks we have faced by the WannaCry virus and by what stupid coincidence there was hardly any economic damage at the time, not only in our country but throughout the world. We also knew the Belgacomhack, revealing how vulnerable our crucial IT infrastructure was. In the meantime, everyone is investing heavily, but we cannot be armed enough in this matter. So I am pleased that cybersecurity is part of the pact. That will be one of the strengths of our economy, and hence of our growth.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u17	Mr President, I thank all colleagues for their questions. Without being exhaustive, I will try to answer the main points. Firstly, Mr Calvo, political inclusiveness is an important point for me. I haven't changed my mind about that. I want to make it clear that I am open in this respect to all proposals and initiatives aimed at strengthening political inclusiveness. I am trying to do that within the framework of the Consultative Committee with the other governments. I am also trying to do this in the context of the parliamentary debate and the parliamentary debates. The Strategic Committee has also been available and will remain available for a permanent political dialogue with Parliament. I am also prepared to meet with the various groups to listen to them, should they so wish. I also do not rule out a debate in Parliament on a motion for a resolution with, I hope, broad support. Support from other sectors and actors of our society may make our strategy more sustainable. I would be very pleased, for example, if the social partners were to support this exceptional exercise. That way we can start with this investment pact. Secondly, you're right. Indeed, Eurostat's figures indicate a reduction in investment. We have to stop this! This is exactly what the investment pact is about. An indisputable diagnosis has been made and we must stop this situation. It is crucial to provide a shock, a boost, a turbo in terms of investment. Our methodology and efforts over the last few months, with the implementation of concrete projects under this strategy, aim to achieve visible results as soon as possible. So I am in no way questioning the figures. I therefore believe that this pact is important to reverse the negative trend. Thirdly, a number of Members have rightly pointed out that the federal government has a role to play as an actor, as Mr Verherstraeten says, but we must also be a catalyst. We must play a role in strengthening cooperation and synchronising with the other authorities. I am thinking of the Länder, but also of the local actors, the municipalities and the intercommunals. The role of local authorities is indeed very important in terms of investment. I am reacting to a point that Patrick Dewael mentioned in this regard by saying that in the coming weeks I would like to hold meetings with representatives of local authorities to listen to their concerns. In this context, however, I can see that the division of powers leads to regional governments, which, in our institutional model, have the responsibility to organise the financial relationship between the Regions and local authorities. I will listen to the local authorities, but there is a distinction to be made – as we must stimulate investment in general – between investments that can be considered strategic and of such magnitude that they will be taken into account in order to have an impact on convincing the European Union and investments, of course important ones, which will not be considered by the European Commission to be likely to influence our fiscal trajectory or the Commission's assessment of our level of debt, for example. I am in favour of stimulating investment while measuring that they will not all be considered to be sufficiently important, persuasive, essential or strategic to influence our discussion with the European Commission. Mr Calvo, another point was the Energy Pact and the links between the Energy Pact and an investment pact. In my view, the Energy Pact is an important part of a more global strategy for the Investment Pact. It goes together. There is indeed a parallel exercise, which attempts to achieve results with an investment pact. On the other hand, we are also trying to find solutions to the Energy Pact. That is a strong commitment, which I have repeated in the Chamber. There is no contradiction in this matter. On the contrary, it is a very coherent approach. This is a very coherent approach since in the Energy Pact we want to consider what our strategy will be in the coming years to comply with the Paris Agreements, to be in a position to guarantee security of supply, to measure consumer and business bills in the future so that energy is affordable. These are parameters that are very important to honour the commitments made in the law passed by parliament in 2015 and which foresees an exit from nuclear power in 2025. To achieve this, investments must be made to realize this ability to meet priorities and concerns. Here I make a brief incise on the Myrrha project that was mentioned. I want to twist my neck to misunderstandings if there have been any on the subject and Servais Verherstraeten was right to correct the message. In my view, there is a great difference between nuclear energy and nuclear science. Mr Calvo, nuclear science concerns the treatment of nuclear waste. Myrrha, for example, may provide the necessary solutions on the issue of nuclear waste. In the exit from nuclear power, we will have to address this issue. It also concerns health, medicine and space issues in which our country plays a role with Europe. Mr Calvo, I ask you not to confuse the nuclear energy debate with the nuclear science debate. I know your position. You know mine on the subject. Let us not throw nuclear science, which is crucial for space, for health, and for tomorrow's ability to manage this nuclear waste issue, which must mobilise us! That's the message I wanted to give you! I hope he reassures you as you seem to have been a little worried about it. Mr Calvo, I agree with your comment on electricity batteries, which has already been the subject of many initiatives. There have already been projects by important private companies in that domain, and we can now seize an opportunity in that area. That is why my cabinet has contacted various actors and further contacts will follow. Batteries can therefore certainly be an important element of the investment pact, but that will become clear in the coming weeks. This ambition, which aims to develop a public-private partnership with the aim of stimulating innovation and the production of energy storage in the form of batteries, is receiving our full attention. You mentioned Umicore, Solvay and other companies. We are continuing and intensifying our contacts in this regard. Many of you have rightly asked the question of funding. How can resources be mobilized? How are budgets composed? What about public money, private funds, capital, diversification, mobilization of savings? These are, of course, essential aspects, on which we have already worked a great deal. As I indicated earlier, we are awaiting recommendations from the Strategic Committee in this regard, in accordance with its mandate. Before the summer, we hope for more operational proposals. Nevertheless, without delay, we take several initiatives, including through the SFPI. The press has addressed several aspects, which I cannot confirm yet at this stage. Indeed, some information is incomplete, as the work must continue in the coming weeks. I am thinking in particular of the mobilization of Synatom. That is why I am demining the figures that have appeared in the media, as discussions are still under way to operationalize the capacity of the SFPI to commit infrastructure funds. These ambitions are strong, namely 60 billion euros between now and 2030. This shows that when one isolates an amount – in this case EUR 150 million – it is not representative of a large-scale ambition. Some Members have also rightly warned about saupoudrage. That's not our intention. We absolutely must remain alert and avoid that risk. That is why we considered, at the federal level, even though the Strategic Committee had gone on six axes and six sectors, that there were three main and priority axes, namely energy transition, mobility and the digital agenda. Cybersecurity is directly linked to the digital agenda. This is an important issue that I fully assume. In the consultations that have taken place in recent months, it has become clear that cybersecurity is fundamental. Our ambition for the digital agenda also required this security. One doesn't go without the other. Mr Dewael, on the digital agenda, you made a few comments on infrastructure and on the initiatives of some companies, Proximus on the one hand and Telenet on the other. The decisions of the various governments, including those of Flanders, are certainly a point for dialogue and consultation. It is therefore my intention to continue this dialogue with the Flemish Government. After all, we must try to develop as coherent an approach as possible within the framework of the digital agenda. I share your reasoning. Other colleagues, including Mrs De Coninck and Mr Dewael, spoke about the importance of public transport. This is why decisions on the subject have already been taken by SNCB. As a result, an additional EUR 1 billion will be released for infrastructure. Mrs De Coninck is no longer present, but perhaps there are differences of approach between the political groups. My conviction is that, in the context of public transport - I am thinking in particular of SNCB - the real challenge is to ensure that, in the future, we can better control operating expenditure and devote more resources to investment expenditure. Perhaps, in the past, too much capacity has been given for operation and too little for investment. This will be the subject of the debate that we will have in this Parliament, including in the context of the Energy Pact discussion. Finally, a number of questions were asked about discussions with European bodies. I explained the method chosen: first, an informal approach, a workshop with the senior officials of the European Commission, with the heads of the government departments in Belgium and our federated entities, and then a slightly more formal approach. In this context, is there a debate on structural reforms? Yes. There is a constant debate at European Commission level on structural reforms that place our country in a stronger position to meet the challenges of tomorrow and the day after. This dialogue will continue to develop. Mr Laaouej has made some interesting considerations, as is often the case, on the link between the debate on the Energy Pact and our budgetary trajectories. I am thinking here of his question on the MTO, his question on debt, but also of his proposal to involve the Committee on Finance and the Budget. It is of course with pleasure that I welcome this suggestion. One can indeed consider how to reason in relation to this. To be a little more precise, we have developed a draft paper position, hence from common points of view, federated entities-federal government. This document is already very advanced. It was discussed again last night with some representatives of the federated entities. I am quite available to submit this document to Parliament once it has been finalized and to organise a precise debate on what this represents in our trajectories. You are right: budgetary science is not an exact science, it is a science based on forecasts. It is therefore necessary to see, at every moment, what the starting point is and what the prospects are to be achieved in the context of the reasonings developed directly with the European Commission on these subjects. Mr Laaouej, some of your questions were about the method used by the Planning Office or the European Commission in terms of the model for calculating macroeconomic impacts. According to my information to be checked more precisely, the technicians of the Planning Office who contributed to the note in question drew on the European Commission's method by adapting it to the Belgian situation. That is what we have based ourselves on, but I have a more technical model at your disposal on the subject. A choice was therefore not made between the model of the Planning Office and that of the European Commission. It was the Commission that served as the basis, but with an adaptation to take account of a number of particularities related to our country. These are the few things I wanted to say. With regard to the investment standard that has been discussed by many of you, I find this debate on the investment standard relevant. This is a useful debate since the starting point is that we invest too little in relation to GDP. There is too little investment in absolute figures. How can we take more responsibility structurally, first by causing a shock to recover and, then, by having a more structural investment strategy. However, I do not believe that this debate can be countered. We cannot put the plow before the oxen in this debate. We must start, as we do now, by trying to objectify the type of sector, the type of investment, the amount of investment needed to have this multiplier effect and this positive effect. That's a first point. On the other hand, I am quite sensitive to the argument on a standard that would be a negotiated standard. This should not necessarily be a standard that would be worth once and for all, especially since investment cycles are multi-year cycles. An annual standard that would be valid forever is therefore perhaps not the most appropriate method. And in order to keep this debate open, we have asked the strategic committee, on this subject precisely and in view of its report before the end of the summer, to work more finely than that to fuel the political debate, the democratic debate. In principle, I am in favour of developing, in some form, an investment standard. But I am not sure that it should be, as in other areas, a percentage X of GDP each year for each entity. Perhaps it takes more flexibility, more flexibility to take into account the fact that there are many entities, that the situations are different according to the entities and needs, that the implementation timings are different? Perhaps we should be a little creative about this thinking? Comments were also made on the fact that it was not just a matter of money. It is not just a question of money and financial resources. That is correct and is also one of the objectives of the strategic committee. There are brakes and these are not just financial brakes. There are also obstacles to the legal procedure, administrative procedure and licensing. It is a reality that the strategic committee should have a mandate to develop a few proposals for a political debate on this matter. That, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is a few elements. I consider that this debate is not closed today. It is clear that this is a dynamic, developing subject. I wanted to show today that in recent months we have continued the work more and more operationally and concretely. The aim is not to link theoretical reports for months but to be able, as quickly as possible, to identify dynamically the concrete priority projects that can be implemented and have a real effect for our citizens, for our growth, for employment, for economic development, for attractiveness, for competitiveness. Public transport, for example, is an element of competitiveness. It is in this approach that I wish to be able to deploy. I am very determined to make every effort, in the most open way possible, to ensure that, beyond the majority/opposition divides, we try to join in a project that must go beyond the framework of a legislature and a coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, I naturally agree with your last sentence, namely that it must be a cross-party legislative process and hence a cross-national coalition. First of all, I would like to come back to Myrrha because I do not like that there are any misunderstandings. In our own plan too, Mr Verherstraeten may be reassured that there is still a lot of activity in the Kempen, at the SCK and the IRE. It is true that the medical applications of nuclear will not disappear, they will become even more important. We have a lot of assets in this area. In the post-nuclear era there will still be a lot of employment and a lot of research and development still needs to be carried out. Except Myrrha's a little off on that. But perhaps we should have this debate at another time. It is a mortgage on rolling out a study centre for those sectors because Myrrha is still, and that is why it is not funded, especially about fourth generation nuclear energy. Nor is it a solution for our existing vitrified waste. I would like to discuss this more thoroughly with you or other people. Yes, a lot of nuclear science is still needed, there is still a lot of nuclear work. That is an asset that we must not give out of our hands. But I think Myrrha is more of a mortgage than the big solution. Secondly, with regard to local authorities, the governance story and the involvement of the strategic committee, there is the instrumental story. The suggestion was also put forward following the proposal of the MR on the VAT Compensation Fund. We should invite the VVSG and co in the Finance Committee to make suggestions to us on the financing of investments by local authorities. There are also federal instruments to be devised in this respect. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to repeat the following. There is also the story about the space to invest and the impact of, for example, federal measures. One should look at the impact of the tax shift on the local financial situation, which is quite substantial. There is also the reform of the fire zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u19	(...) [[Not containing micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u20	But you cannot deny that it also has an impact on the financial possibilities of local governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u21	(...) [[Not containing micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u22	I'm not denying that. I'm not gonna deny the sun's shining. However, it has an impact on the financial area of local authorities. The same applies to fire zones and pensions. You're driving your federal policy to close down the investment space for local governments. Thirdly, I am very pleased that the idea of the investment standard is gaining momentum. Finally, one last idea for which I would also like to promote, in the hope of smuggling as much of our ideas as possible into your plan, is the whole story of the private shareholdership of the overall plan. Mr Verherstraeten also mentioned this. That was the reason for some hilarity when Mr Verherstraeten spoke about cooperatives. It would be good and necessary for our investment plan to give every Belgian literally the chance to become a shareholder of that investment plan. There was also the Leterme State Certificate. This could be promoted by means of fiscal incentives. This can be supported by a national campaign. The shareholdership of individuals with the mass of savings there is is an instrument that deserves a place in the final plan. We have a number of suggestions that we want to continue to put on the agenda because we believe that such a plan is important and because it is necessary to raise it a level higher than it is for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-02-21-54-commissie-ic823x.u23	There are no more speakers. Then I'm gonna close the meeting with this. Thank you, colleagues.
