ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 December 2018, I propose that you enter the following items on this afternoon's agenda: 1) the swearing-in of new members; In the case of oral questions, the plenum should begin with the discussion of and the vote on the names of: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne and Mr Olivier Maingain, Mrs Vanessa Matz, Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr Julie Fernandez Fernandez) on the signing by Belgium of the Global Pact for safe, orderly and regular migration, Nos 3385/1 to 7; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Benoit Hellings, Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mrs Sarah Schlitz) calling on the Federal Government to support without reservation the Global Compact for Migration, Nos 3386/1 and 2. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 5 December 2018, I propose that you include in the agenda this afternoon the following items: 1. the swearing-in of new members; 2) to begin the sitting, before the oral questions, with the discussion and the nominative vote on: - the motion for a resolution (MM. Georges Dallemagne and Olivier Maingain, Mrs Vanessa Matz, Catherine Fonck and Julie Fernandez Fernandez) on the signing by Belgium of the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration, Nos. 3385/1 to 7; - the motion for a resolution (MM. Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings, Kristof Calvo and Georges Gilkinet, Meyrem Almaci and Sarah Schlitz) calling on the federal government to fully support the Global Compact on Migration, Nos. 3386/1 and 2. I would also suggest that you enter on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law ratifying the Royal Decree of 15 October 2017 fixing for the year 2017 the amount of the remuneration referred to in Article 14 (8), 16th paragraph, of the Law of 11 April 2003 on facilities for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and for the management of nuclear fuel irradiated in those nuclear power stations, Nos 3104/1 to 3. The report will be distributed as a proof of printing. I also propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law confirming the Royal Decree of 15 October 2017 fixing for 2017 the amount of the allocation contribution referred to in Article 14, § 8, paragraph 16, of the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and for the management of irradiated fissile material in such plants, Nos. 3401/1 to 3. The report will be distributed as a proof. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u3	We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mr Benoit Hellings, who resigned on 30 November 2018. We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate to sit in replacement of Mr Benoit Hellings, who resigned on November 30, 2018. The successor who will replace him is Mrs Véronique Waterschoot, the first successor to the Brussels-Capital constituency. The alternate is Ms Véronique Waterschoot, the first alternate in the Brussels-Capital electoral district. Mrs Véronique Waterschoot's credentials were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. Ms. Véronique Waterschoot's credentials were validated in our June 19, 2014 session. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te leven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen". I would ask Mrs Véronique Waterschoot to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mrs Véronique Waterschoot to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u4	Mrs Véronique Waterschoot will be part of the French language group. Ms. Véronique Waterschoot will be a member of the French language group. We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, who resigned on 5 December 2018. We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate to sit in replacement of Ms.Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, who resigned on December 5, 2018. The first successor, Mr Anthony Dumarey, has waived his mandate by mail of 5 December 2018. The first alternate, Mr.Anthony Dumarey, gave up his mandate by e-mail on December 5, 2018. The successor who will replace her is Mrs Sandrine De Crom, second successor to the West Flanders constituency. The alternate is Ms Sandrine De Crom, the second alternate in the electoral district of West Flanders. Mrs Sandrine De Crom's credentials were declared valid at our meeting on 19 June 2014. Ms. Sandrine De Crom's credentials were validated in our June 19, 2014 session. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I would ask Mrs Sandrine De Crom to take the constitutional oath. I ask Mrs Sandrine De Crom to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u5	Ms Sandrine De Crom will be part of the Dutch language group. Ms Sandrine De Crom will be a member of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u6	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3385: Georges Dallemagne, Olivier Maingain, Vanessa Matz, Catherine Fonck, Julie Fernandez Fernandez. - 3386: Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings, Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet, Meyrem Almaci, Sarah Schlitz.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u7	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3385/6) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3385/6) The title was changed by the committee to "Proposal for a Resolution on the Global Pact for Safe, orderly and regular Migration." The title has been amended by the committee to propose a resolution on the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration". The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u8	Mr President, very briefly, because I would certainly like to give Mr Flahaux the opportunity to start his report immediately. Today, our Parliament is firmly committed to the Belgian position on the UN migration pact. I hope it will be the last time, because this discussion has been dragging on long enough. It is important for our group to do so on the basis of complete information. Our group, like a number of editorial staff, has just been able to look at an instruction paper from our Foreign Minister. In this instruction paper, which dates from the beginning of October, the Foreign Minister instructs our diplomats in New York to support the pact, even more so, to promote it. This is also the question in the resolution before us. I think it is important for Parliament to be able to hold the debate on the basis of complete information. Hence my question to spread that instruction note to the banks, not with the intention of adding more chaos to the chaos, but to add more factuality to the debate. Mr President, I would therefore ask you to have this instruction paper distributed so that the groups know what is going on. It underlines once again the situation in which we have ended up. Our country asked diplomats at the beginning of October to express a certain position, while today, at the beginning of December, there is doubt about that. I do not think that this is a healthy situation and therefore I believe that it should be eliminated on the basis of all available information. That is why I am asking for the instruction note to be distributed to the banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u9	Mr President, I agree with what Mr Calvo said. Before starting this debate, I would like some clarification from the Prime Minister. First of all, Prime Minister, I note that no N-VA minister is here. My question is therefore whether, when you take the floor, you will speak on behalf of the government as a whole or not? Secondly, I take the instruction note of 3 October from our Minister for Foreign Affairs. Prime Minister, did you know about the existence of this instruction note? If so, I feel you've taken 150 MPs by the nose. After all, if that instruction note is there, and it is there, and if you knew that, then you would no longer need Parliament's support to go to Marrakesh on Monday and to join you there on behalf of the government in the consensus. Mr De Roover, your third red line has already been crossed, because with this instruction note the process has been completed. Prime Minister, has Belgium indicated to the UN that it will adopt the text? I come to my final question to the Prime Minister. Mr De Roover announced that the N-VA would place the item on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. Prime Minister, is this item already on the agenda of the Council of Ministers? I'd like to know, because this game of the N-VA has to stop. The sp.a believes that the government should rule and... (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u10	Mr van der Maelen, no preliminaries on the debate, please. It was about the organisation of work. We will include your comment in the debate later. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez has the floor on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u11	Mr President, I agree with my colleagues. During the hearings, we learned that COORMULTI had led to the adoption of the pact on 12 September. Like my colleagues, I learned from the press that, on 3 October, the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself gave official instructions - taken from Mr Calvo's paper - to Belgian representatives in the United Nations to support the pact. Therefore, the procedure is closed, Prime Minister. Can you confirm this information? Indeed, I think they will influence the continuation of our discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u12	Mr President, I welcome the presence of many members of the government and the Prime Minister on such a fundamental issue. If we are here today, it is because the Secretary of State in charge of this competence has expressed his disagreement with the pact. I would like the presence of the Secretary of State, because we have still not heard his objections to the pact. It is time today for him to respect Parliament and his own government and to come here to defend his positions and hear those of Parliament. I will also ask the Prime Minister earlier if he is still speaking on behalf of the government as a whole. Although I welcome the presence of many ministers, I regret the absence of Ministers N-VA. Is the Prime Minister still speaking today on behalf of the entire government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u13	Mr President, I shall speak briefly to support what has just been said. Secretary of State Franken, who is in charge of the matter we are going to discuss today, is still, precisely at the time we are talking about statements on social networks and, moreover, is doing so without interruption. We do not understand that he is not present alongside the Prime Minister and other members of the government to explain his positions and, above all, to answer questions that we would have to ask him. I would not understand that this request is not being heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can assume that, as in all matters, the Prime Minister speaks here on behalf of the whole government, that this is also supported by the whole government and can be seen in that light.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u15	Colleagues, in connection with the presence of the Secretary of State, he had already indicated in advance that he cannot be here because of European obligations. The Conference of Presidents took note of this yesterday and subsequently amended the agenda for this sitting. The second point concerns Mr Calvo's document. I just got it. I am not in a position to judge him, but it seems to me... Mr. Dallemagne has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u16	I can hear the Secretary of State's apology. It has the priorities it intends to have in relation to a situation of acute crisis which it has provoked itself. I'll take note of that. If I understand correctly, he is under the authority of the Minister of the Interior. I ask then that the Minister of the Interior, under whose authority the Secretary of State Franken works, come to attend our work, answer our questions and explain to us any objections he may have to this pact. He has spread his objections extensively in the press. It is important and essential that he come here to Parliament. He must listen to us, he must finally have the courage to come here to talk to Parliament about his objections and he must hear our support for the Migration Pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u17	On this point, Mr Dallemagne, I will take the necessary information and have you carry the message. As far as the document is concerned, I believe it is an authentic document. I propose to copy and distribute it, although this document is only in Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u18	We're used to it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u19	If you ask, I'll ask for a translation. However, this document can be distributed. For the rest, we will see during the discussion on the resolution. Mr Calvo has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u20	Thank you, Mr President, for distributing the instruction paper. I did not intend to ask, but I think Mr Dallemagne's question is actually legitimate. I can understand the agenda problems of ministers very much, but the fact that no N-VA minister participates in this session is anything but ideal in these circumstances. We can start the report by moving forward. I think, however, that you need to take a look at the availability of Deputy Prime Minister Jambon. President: I have just promised, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u21	Mr President, I understand that many of my colleagues are wondering about the absence of Ministers and Secretaries of State N-VA. As a personal matter, it may not be necessary to complain about it. Good riddance, I would gladly say! For once, we will be able to hold a session without these characters who have often undermined the proper functioning of our institutions. I assume that when the government is represented by the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister represents the entire government. To the ministers concerned, if they are not there, to say openly whether they are still in this government or not! We'll know in a few hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u22	As Mr Calvo has just suggested, I propose that we start reporting on Mr Flahaux's report and then start discussing the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, remember, at the plenary meeting on 22 November last, two motions for resolutions had been tabled and the plenary meeting had entrusted the Committee on External Relations with examining them. This was done at the meetings of the Committee on External Relations on 27 November, 4 and 5 December. During its first meeting, on 27 November, Mr Georges Dallemagne, the main sponsor of the proposal for resolution 3385, outlined the main points and, in particular, recalled the reasons why it was important for Belgium to adopt fully the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration. Mr Kristof Calvo, Ecolo-Groen, co-sponsor of draft resolution 3386, said that his group had tabled this motion for a resolution on 16 November in order to encourage the Government to adopt fully the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration. Indeed, he had considered that the federal government appeared to be divided on this issue and that the commitments made by Prime Minister Charles Michel in the United Nations rostrum seemed to be in question. The committee then decided to adopt Mr Dallemagne's motion for a resolution as the basic text for the discussion and to hold hearings. In this context, each group was invited to propose the name of a person or institution to be heard. Mr. Jean-Luc Bodson, Ambassador, Special Envoy "Migrations and Asylum" who negotiated this pact throughout the discussion; Mr. Fernand Keuleneer, lawyer at the Brussels Bar; Ms. Anne Lagerwall, Professor and Member of the Centre for International Law at the Université Libre de Bruxelles; Mr. Pierre d'Argent, Ordinary Professor and holder of the Chair in Public International Law at the Faculty of Law at the Université Catholique de Louvain; Ms. Ellen Desmet, Lecturer in Migration Law at the Faculty of Law and Criminology at the University of Ghent; Mr. Jan Wouters, Ordinary Professor of International Law and International Organizations at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven; Mr. Marc Bossuyt, former President of the Constitutional Court. The interim report of these hearings is available on the House's website. Mr Dallemagne et al.'s proposal was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on External Relations on Wednesday, 5 December, i.e. yesterday. Eight amendments were tabled. On the one hand, those of Messrs. David Clarinval, Patrick Dewael and Servais Verherstraeten, who sought the widest possible consensus on the motion for a resolution. The purpose of these amendments was to delete recitals B to J, to refer to the hearings on 4 December and to replace the operative part with the following text: "supports the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration and calls for consultation with different European States in order to arrive at an explanation of position which explains the support for the Pact." The authors of this amendment stressed the importance for the House of expressing its support for the Global Compact on Immigration. They also recalled that the hearings confirmed, on the one hand, that the Covenant had no binding effect, that it did not create new obligations for States or new rights for migrants, and, on the other hand, that the entire decision-making process had not only been respected, but had enabled Belgium to incorporate a series of comments into the final text of the Global Compact. Throughout the proceedings, no formal objections had been raised by any authority. The Ecolo-Groen Group expressed support for the text of the resolution and the 4 amendments tabled by the three majority parties for the following reasons: they refer to the hearings held on 4 December which clarified the elements contained in the text of the Global Compact; they express the House's support for the Global Compact on Migration; they encourage international cooperation with different States in order to arrive at an explanation of position that explains the support for the Pact. The cdH group expressed support for the text of the resolution and the four amendments of the three parties of the majority, as it preserved the bulk of the motion for a resolution, namely, unequivocal support from the House of Representatives for the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Immigration. This support for the pact gives a clear signal to the government. It will enable Belgium not to break a long tradition of ardent supporter of multilateralism and maintain its leadership on the international stage. The N-VA Group reiterated its opposition to the Global Compact, a symbol of a global governance, and indicated that its position had not changed as a result of the hearings. In this regard, he said that the invited experts had come at the request of the parties that were in favour of the pact and that they could not be considered representative of all the opinions issued by the academic world. In the case of the surplus, the N-VA Group considered that the amendments were too vague and that it was difficult to know their exact scope – consultation with how many States, positions, content of the explanation. He will therefore vote against the motion for a resolution and the amendments tabled by the other majority parties. The sp.a group also recalled that the migration problem could not be solved by a single State and that it required a multilateral approach. He therefore supported the amendments tabled by the three parties of the majority. The PS group expressed reservations about the scope of the declaration contained in the operative part of the motion for a resolution amended by three parties of the majority. He feared that the wording chosen would be deliberately ambiguous, in order to allow the government to adopt the pact with a declaration of position which would contain many reservations. However, "it is important," says the PS, "that Belgium be among the countries that will adopt the pact without reservations". He hoped that the resolution would explicitly state that Parliament "unreservedly endorsed the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration". An amendment No. 6 was tabled to that effect, which will be rejected by 11 votes to 4, with 2 abstentions. Mr. Maingain, co-sponsor of Mr. Dallemagne's motion for a resolution, said that he could support the amendments of the majority parties, since it was a consensus text enabling the House of Representatives to support the Global Compact on Migration. He wondered, however, why the word "without reservations" in the original text no longer appeared in the text. However, it considers that, in order to remove any ambiguity, they should be re-established. He therefore tabled two amendments: Amendment No 7, which is a sub-amendment to Amendment No 5, which seeks to clarify that support for the Pact must be unconditional. This amendment was rejected by 11 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions; Amendment No 8 expressly instructs the federal government to sign the Global Compact. The amendment was also rejected by 11 votes to 3, with 3 abstentions. Mr. De Winter, for Vlaams Belang, explained why he would vote against this motion for a resolution. He believed that the Global Compact was a text that advocated increased migration and open borders, which was why many States had decided not to adopt it. He tabled a comprehensive amendment calling on the federal government to formally reject the pact. The amendment by Mr. De Winter was rejected by 13 votes with 4 abstentions. Mr. Vuye said that the Global Compact for Migration should be seen as soft law, which would ultimately have effects in domestic law when it had not been the subject of a legislative process that could legitimize it. For that reason, he indicated that he would vote against the proposal as amended by the parties of the majority. He also questioned the scope of the explanation of position to be agreed between the different European States. Lastly, he considered that the substantive issue raised by the Global Compact on Migration was whether human rights applied to migrants. Support for the pact must be used to counter the hate speech of the far right aimed at dehumanizing migrants. He would therefore support the motion for a resolution. I shall now vote on the amendments tabled by the three parties of the majority. These amendments were adopted and the amended motion for a resolution as a whole was adopted by 10 votes to 4, with 10 abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u24	I thank the rapporteur for the report. The general discussion of the motion for a resolution has been opened. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that we agreed to limit ourselves to a maximum of 15 minutes per speaker. Mrs Kitir asked to speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u25	Mr President, Mr Van der Maelen is right to point out that no N-VA minister is present. We asked the Prime Minister whether he would reply on behalf of the government or not, but we did not receive an answer. It is appropriate to know the answer to that question before starting the discussion. It is not true that Mr Van Overtveldt is absent, because I have already seen him in the corridors and he must also answer a question today. I would therefore like to know whether a minister of the N-VA will join the discussion of this resolution and whether the Prime Minister will speak on behalf of the government or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u26	Mrs Kitir, let me begin with your first question: twenty seconds ago, I learned that Minister Jambon is on his way here. Secondly, in principle: when the Prime Minister speaks here, that is as always in the name of the government. That's the principle. Mr De Roover has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not have any paper with me to read because we are not talking about a bill or a budget here. In this case, we must look at whether it is Article 13 or Article 16 or whether it is a budget which is the correct number and which page it is on. Today's discussion is much more important, because it is about principles. When it comes to principles, I don't need a cheat sheet. We are talking today about the Global Compact for Migration. Yesterday, I said in committee that I could table an amendment, and I did not do it to delete the word 'Global'. It is no longer a Global Compact for Migration, it is at best still a 'Migration Compact' of a number of countries. A majority, I admit. For Europe, however, I would like to point out that those countries that no longer sign represent 150 million Europeans. That is the group that no longer participates in this Global, or more Global, Compact for Migration. Then there are also a number of important countries outside Europe worldwide that are not taking part. Hence my question to the Prime Minister a few weeks ago that not all Belgian traditions should look for an opportunity to speak with a European voice. Should it have been possible to speak with a European voice, we could have adopted a common European position here, but we could not have ended up there, apparently. It is true that the opinion of so many countries is also relevant in view of the whole idea of a Global Compact for Migration. Secondly, the resolution on which we are voting today contains two points: the adoption of the Global Compact for Migration, which I shall come back to later, and the search for that European platform to determine an Exploration of Position (EOP). (Minister Jambon enters the Halfrond.) The minister comes in here as the opposition has requested, ready and available as ever. I'll give you one of those EOPs. A number of countries have already decided to add them to the text. In fact, we have had a very interesting hearing with experts, which, in the case of a non-binding pact, determines which points are even less binding, less binding than non-binding. One should not be a lawyer, even more so, one should not be a lawyer to feel that this is spielerei, to feel that this is an attempt to appease the fuss that has arisen in all European countries, not only the European countries to which I referred with a butter note, an insert, a pubic patch. The whole discussion of the EOPs has actually shown the following. You know that such documents are usually approved in the darkest pits of decision-making, stripped of any control, so we discover five years later that we may not have made such a sensible decision five years earlier. Now that there has finally been a debate, both in this country and in Europe, about such important documents, it has been discovered that this is not really a high-quality document. This is a document in which everything is written and the opposite. I will come back to that when I say something about the Global Compact. We are now looking for a document to say that a non-binding document is even less binding on certain points. I don't know who you can explain this to; I can't do it, but I'm sure you'll tell me later. Moreover, the resolution as it stands does not say anything about how many countries we need to find, when we need to find them, what text we want to collect them and what the significance of this EOP is. There is no mention of that. In fact, that part of the resolution says that one day you will have to do something with some people. With who, when and what, it doesn't say that. In terms of clarity, it is even more vague than the Pact itself, and you must make an effort to achieve that. In short, what you and we are about to vote on is completely unclear in substance. It is simply an attempt: the less we put in, the more chance we have of collecting enough signatures to be able to lay down here. There is an intention in it, but you have guessed what that intention is. The key point of the resolution is the commitment to adopt the Marrakesh Pact, the Global Compact for Migration. Colleagues, those of you, and many of you are in favour of this, I respect your position. This is a House of many opinions. I do not agree with that, but that is not the point. We will say this here too, we have said it and we will continue to say it. It is an excellent exercise in democracy with which we express our various views to the public. I welcome the debate and the vote, but not the result. As a good democrat, I see what I find and I welcome the debate that has taken place. Technically speaking, and that is not even in the text, it is a suggestion to the government: government, so many MPs, we will soon see how many people ask you to sign the Global Compact for Migration. And then there is something else to be able to collect more signatures for this resolution. The decision whether we agree with it or not, and for that we do not need to be a Constitutional Specialist, we need to look at the Constitution, but we need to look at it in the government. That is determined by the Constitution, not by me, not by you. That's one of the rules of our order. If this motion for a resolution is adopted, as is suspected, and the text reaches the government, we will be happy to hear the decision of who is to take it, namely the government. With all due respect to all levels of decision-making, it is quite clear that the COORMULTI, an administrative body, does not replace political decision-making. I hope that no one here will say seriously that the political decision-making is being taken by the COORMULTI. Mr Peeters, of whom I am perhaps now misinterpreting the body language, will also have sufficient constitutional principles to know that no political decisions are taken by the COORMULTI. As Professor Sottiaux made perfectly clear yesterday in this matter, it is a matter of such political importance that a formal position in the Council of Ministers is absolutely necessary to know what this country will do. We ask nothing more than to follow that logic. The government naturally decides in accordance with the four governmental parties which support the government in Parliament. That too is a beautiful tradition, of which, of course, we should not deviate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u28	Mr De Roover, a discussion on the exact status of the COORMULTI would lead us too far, but I believe that everyone, especially those who have followed the hearings with the experts, knows that it is not just an official body. If one wants to make a point even more political, one must take an initiative, especially when one is invited to the consultation as a State Secretary. But that's what the N-VA left behind. But let me leave the debate on the status of these consultations to the left. What you can't make hard, although you've been trying to talk a lot of crooked things over the past few days, is that a note from Minister Reynder's cabinet is an official document. Minister Reynders is capable of a lot of things, but he's not an official. Mr Reynders is a politician; Mr Reynders is the Foreign Minister. He is part of the same government in which Theo Francken and Jan Jambon also sit, so the N-VA is part of. Colleagues, a copy of the instruction note has now been distributed to the parliamentary banks. That instruction paper shows that in early October the Foreign Minister instructed our diplomats in New York to support the migration pact. So, Mr De Roover, you cannot claim that there has been purely official consultation. That brings us to today's question. Mr De Roover, you refer to the present motion for a resolution. Well, I do not think that a parliamentary resolution is a spielerei. For me, parliamentary politics is something very serious, certainly on the subject. Mr De Roover, your spielerei means that you claim that you were not part of the decision-making process and that it was not a matter for the government. You can't keep that up. Be honest with me about that. How do you deal with that instruction note? Is that politics? I think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u29	Mr Calvo, it seems that you do not consider the Constitution and the rules to be important. I understand that you do not want to talk about the COORMULTI, because if you do, you will be in trouble and you will have to agree with me. (Protests from Mr Calvo) This is how you try to avoid the debate. After all, no decision binding the N-VA has been taken at government level. With regard to the text of Minister Reynders' note, of which we have now received a copy, you must question Minister Reynders. You can ask him to what extent and where he asked for admission to the government. You understand I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u30	Mr De Roover, Mr Van der Maelen is asking for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the interruptions be kept brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u31	Mr President, I cannot blame him, since Mr De Roover is a historian, but not a constitutionalist. (Conversation on the banks) All right, Mr De Roover is apparently an economist. So he's still not a lawyer. Mr President, what I do think is that, after four and a half years in a government, Mr De Roover and his party are not yet aware of the abc of the functioning of a government. When a decision is taken at a meeting of the COORMULTI, it is raised to a higher level at the request of a government partner who disagrees with what was decided at that meeting of the COORMULTI. Mr De Roover, my question to you is as follows. Where and when did the N-VA ask for the decision taken on the COORMULTI to be placed on the agenda of the Council of Ministers? That's my first question. My second question is this. You have just stated that, when a Prime Minister speaks, he speaks on behalf of the government. On 27 September 2018 and not at any place, namely at the General Assembly of the United Nations, the Prime Minister, I would normally call him "your Prime Minister," but I am not sure whether I can say yet, quote: "My country will sign the Global Migration Pact in Marrakesh in December. This text is a huge step forward." If you and the N-VA did not agree with those words, you should immediately have called the Council of Ministers together. Did you do that? No, you didn't. It's obvious. The N-VA has agreed to the migration pact. For three weeks now you have been crippling an entire government at a time when the country is facing numerous socio-economic problems, at a time when 75 000 people are protesting in Brussels because they are afraid of the end of the planet and at a time when people are arguing that they do not know how to reach the end of the month. You are at such a time playing a political game about a text that your party has agreed to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u32	Mr De Roover, you know that we are deeply in disagreement on the substance. We support this pact because it is not a matter of opening borders as you keep telling us, but, on the contrary, of working internationally on a much more concerted, dignified and effective policy. On the other hand, I agree with you on one point in your remarks today. Under article 167 of the Constitution, it is the King and therefore the Government who direct international relations. It is therefore up to the government to define and bear Belgium's position. The Prime Minister announced that he would go to Marrakech to support the pact. This is therefore a position of the government. The Prime Minister is still the Prime Minister of this government. He will therefore go well to Marrakech as Prime Minister of this government. You've made a lot of statements in the media and on social media. You've stood up against the pact while you're still in the government. You also announced that you remain within the government. If you remain in this government, Mr. De Roover, it is that you endorse the government's position as Prime Minister when he goes to Marrakech. You have a lot to say in the media or on social media, if you stay in this government, it is that you and your Deputy Prime Minister completely assume the position of this government. And, in the same way, you support the pact. If this is not the case, Mr De Roover, a minister who disagrees with his Prime Minister or the government is leaving. He's getting rid of himself. It's submissive or quitting! You remain in government, that is, you endorse and support the pact, as the Prime Minister will do on Monday in Marrakech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u33	I will tell you that I understand why this has never happened. We are actually getting to the heart of the matter. The matter has never been discussed, and I do not even see bad faith in it because, according to a bad tradition of this country, we have the habit of automatically participating in this kind of thing. Yes, we want to be an international gray mouse. Yes, we will do our best in the diplomatic process to pay tribute to the diplomats who do so, by the way, but the final result is never an exchange of views. We simply do that and later we will see what the effect is, because we do not think that a decision should actually be taken. That is the case in Belgium. However, I have bad news, because in this government there is a party that does not follow this tradition. In this government there is a party that indeed participates in the whole process. We are prepared to give such processes opportunities. We are guiding and giving input, but at some point we want political decision-making. And it never happened. If there were any misunderstandings about this, I would invite the Prime Minister to remove those misunderstandings by the government by Monday. This is so important that no sneaky decision-making can be accepted as an alternative to a normal debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u34	Mr De Roover, Mr Vuye wishes to interrupt you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we limit the interruptions to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u35	Mr De Roover, you are now pretending to be the party of the disruption, but are you aware of what a traditional party you have become? For two years, you have contributed to the migration pact. Ambassador Bodson has come here to tell us that all the comments made by the government and Secretary of State Francken are included in that migration pact. So you should not pretend to oppose the migration pact; it is your migration pact, it is the migration pact that Mr Francken has written along with. Now you are actually opposing your own texts. Two years of being a traditional party and then suddenly preaching the renewal, I don't think this is credible anymore. Who said "who's gonna believe these people" again?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u36	Mr De Roover, I support you, you know that. My group and my party support you in your opposition to the Marrakech immigration plan. However, I am disappointed by the way you are shaping this resistance right now. You have already announced three times a red line that should not be crossed. The first red line was that there should not be a change-majority, because the N-VA would otherwise leave the government. The second red line was that the Prime Minister should not go to Marrakesh, because otherwise the N-VA would leave the government. Now you say that the matter must come to the Council of Ministers and that the Prime Minister must not go as Prime Minister, because he will no longer be representing the government; that is the third red line. And this one may not be enough either. Then December 19th and the New York vote will be the red line, which will also be crossed. And you will remain seated and the Marrakech Pact will be endorsed by this country. That cannot be the intention! We don't want to give that confidence to your party. Four weeks ago, I was all alone here to question the Prime Minister about the Marrakesh Immigration Pact. I then told the Prime Minister that he was struggling like an eel in a bucket of snot, that he could not, wanted and dared to give an answer. Well, today it is you, Mr De Roover, who flutters like an eel in a bucket of snot, because you do not dare say with the strength of your conviction that if this happens, if this government goes to Marrakesh, you will leave. Say that, finally be a man of your word and dare to remain true to your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u37	Mr Dewinter, of course I am glad that you do not agree with me. We are therefore fundamentally different parties. There is a difference between you and Mr Vuye, in the sense that Mr Vuye receives applause from the Socialists, but you do not. On the one hand, I note with calmness that we have a number of points of view here, and that is why this chair exists. On the other hand, I would like to rest assured that the decision-making process takes place where it belongs constitutionally, and that is in the government. That has never been the case and I hope that this will happen before going to Marrakesh. If you quote, Mr Dewinter, that is what I learned at university, and I said that to Mr Calvo yesterday, too, it must be in quotes, and then what is in quotes must be in line with what has ever been said or written. Unfortunately, like Mr Calvo yesterday, you failed to comply with that basic rule. So I can't answer your quote, because it's not one. I'm moving on to the pact. We're against the pact... [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, it should be possible for a speaker to finish his sentence before he is interrupted. That goes for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u39	Contrary to the tradition in our country, we do want to have that kind of discussion in public. What have the six experts indeed rightly said? I must point out, however, that there are many more experts than those six. Now it is pretending that the expertise is limited to those six experts, while there are quite a few who are effective and right to point out that one has to pay attention to what one does here, because one opens doors where one does not know what they lead to. To the question of the shift of international law, which is a matter of cooperation, which we are in favour of under global law, what is actually the adoption of national democracies, was answered by the experts that we have been doing so for 70 years, that this process has been going on for 70 years. Well, that's what we're talking about. For 70 years, we have been in an inconspicuous, gradual process, the end of which is that this Parliament will only be allowed to proceed with resolutions, because our decision-making power is systematically undermined further, not even to transfer them to another democratic institution, but to hand them over to judges who will do interpretations of what is called global law. We want to limit the trend towards cutting democracy, moving from democracy to an environment in which elected people no longer have an impact. There must be a balance between national responsibility in implementing asylum and migration policies and international cooperation. My party is a party that wants democracy organized as low as possible, with the lowest possible participation...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u40	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u41	Mr Calvo, subsidiarity, democracy, commitment and commitment do not belong on the sidelines. We must take part and not sideline Parliament, as you may write in your booklet, although today you will approve the opposite. The discussion should not be on the sidelines, but in the field. People must have the opportunity to make a democratic judgement on the decision-making process as it is taking place. That is at the heart of the problem. It is about democracy and the ability to have and keep control, in this case about our own border policy. That leads to a lot of excitement in the room.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u42	There is an interruption by Mr Hedebouw. I would also point out to you, Mr De Roover, that you, Mr De Roover, I have shut down the time during the interruptions to your quarters. You have the floor, Mr Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u43	What a spectacle, Mr. De Roover. A debate has been going on for weeks to find out who should decide what. Should the Prime Minister speak on behalf of Parliament, on behalf of the government or on behalf of the Foreign Minister? A cat can't find her boy in it anymore. I have two questions. First of all, is the government united? Apparently, that is not the case. Secondly, why does the N-VA remain in the government? Those are the questions that everyone's asking. Can you answer that? You launched a campaign with shocking images clearly and deliberately three days ago. That campaign was clearly decided by the N-VA on a global basis. That was no mistake at all, Mr De Roover. You're trying to play on two fields. You are trying to stay in the government for the items and the EUR 10 000 per month. You want to keep it. At the same time, you are campaigning racistly outside the government. It can't go on like this. Why do you remain in the government, Mr De Roover? Answer in Parliament and do not perform a spectacle for weeks to come. We're not gonna go on like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u44	I'm sorry. I have tried in all calm and tranquility to indicate the core of our resistance. I did not push the decibel meter up like some of my colleagues did. I did it here because this is the place to bring forward a positioning. I will conclude with answers to the questions you asked. Our position is as follows: this is a moment to reject the Global Compact for Migration because of its possible consequences. Because you are not mistaken: it is not legally binding, but it is a political commitment. You may put aside any number of leaves, it remains a political commitment. Those who say yes to the Global Compact for Migration will tomorrow be morally obliged to strive for the implementation of the first to the last rule of that migration compact. None of you will have the moral authority to take another stand. What you say today will bind you forever in all matters of asylum and migration. That's the choice you stand for. You have to take that responsibility. We are not a court of law, and the question of whether or not it is legally binding is not due to the political commitment that is being made today or not by Parliament. I come to the end of my speech. We will vote against this resolution because the second part is totally empty and because the first part is wrong. That's all a person needs to vote against. I also made a statement yesterday in committee, and I would like to refer to this. Today, the government is present. That is, of course, the big difference from yesterday when we had a parliamentary debate. The presence of the government brings this debate to a different level. This brings the debate to the level of decision-making. I therefore have a number of questions for the Prime Minister. He will undoubtedly respond on behalf of the entire government. Will you say, wherever you are on Monday, that there is no consensus in this government on approving the Global Compact for Migration? Will you tell us on Monday, wherever you are, that for this reason, in the event of a possible lack of consensus in the government, what can be seen in the Council of Ministers, this country cannot approve the Global Compact for Migration?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u45	Mr De Roover, you have just asked the Prime Minister a fundamental question. You said earlier that the Prime Minister was speaking on behalf of the government, of which you are a member. All this is quite surreal. It smells like it's about ten kilometers away! Mr President, this is a little directed at you, too, in substance. As far as the Pact is concerned, Belgium's position must be expressed. This is not the position of the House, the Senate or any structure within Belgium. This is Belgium's position. The Prime Minister, if he goes to Marrakech on Monday to support the pact, will defend Belgium's position. That will not be the position of parliamentarians. We are taking our responsibilities today in the House; but, Prime Minister, you will go on behalf of the government. If it was simply a matter of going to Marrakech to give the opinion of the 150 parliamentarians, it would be up to the Speaker of the House to go there. Prime Minister, let us be very clear: we support this pact, but we want you to speak on behalf of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u46	Each of us gets a chance to express ourselves. Therefore, if we are interrupting, they must be punctual and addressed to the speaker.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u47	Mr President, everyone is following the debate. Everyone wonders what Parliament will do. This is something I really need to get off my chest. We had a very good committee meeting yesterday. We did what Parliament had to do yesterday. We have all prepared a statement. We are all waiting for the tip of our toes in our banks to make that statement. Meanwhile, Mr. De Roover is coming to laugh at us all. He is here to tell us that the party will decide after all and that the government will dance towards the N-VA. Prime Minister, he is asking you a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u48	Mr. Calvo...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u49	Mr President, I want to say it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u50	You will have the opportunity to do so, Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u51	Prime Minister, Mr De Roover has asked you a question. Let me finish. Mr De Roover has asked you a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u52	No, not like this...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u53	Prime Minister, you must not wait hours with your answer. You should be answering his question by now. That circus has to stop. The N-VA is holding the country hostage. You must now stand up in your capacity as Prime Minister and tell us what you will do with that question instead of letting Mr De Roover play his cinema. The game has lasted long enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u54	We will listen to everyone on time and stood according to our usual systems. I shall therefore pass the floor to Mrs Fernandez Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u55	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Fonck for repeating what the Socialist Group said yesterday in committee all afternoon long and wide. It's always a shame to be right too early, but I'm glad you repeated it. Prime Minister, I will start with a simple question. Can you now repeat before this House what you said on September 24 in New York? I can remind you: "My country will sign the Global Pact on Migration in Marrakech in December. Prime Minister, can you repeat in this House the words you have spoken on behalf of Belgium before the UN Assembly? Your silence says a lot. Prime Minister, you committed yourself to signing the pact at the UN rostrum on behalf of Belgium. A few minutes ago, Mr Calvo sent us a document which even says that your Foreign Minister, on 3 October, gave official instructions to ratify this pact. What has happened since your statement in New York? The N-VA now categorically refuses to sign. It has been so far as to launch an disgusting campaign, worthy of the far right, on social networks. After saying in New York in September that Belgium was going to sign the pact, you had to take the blows week after week. You were even called into question as Prime Minister. You've been undressed. You must have come to Parliament to explain, benevolently, that your government did not ultimately support the pact. Yes, Mr Michel, your silences, your answers and the words – still today – of your government partner make it possible to say that at the moment Belgium will not sign the pact. You have never said before in this Parliament: 'Belgium will sign the pact'. You did not say it here, you did not say it either at your press conference two days ago, because it is not possible to say today that Belgium supports the pact. Prime Minister, you have not been able to remind your partner, the N-VA, who, as has been pointed out, and as the ambassador explained to us in detail during the hearings, has been actively associated with the pact. It has been actively involved in the negotiations. We heard our ambassador explain clearly that it was at the request of the N-VA and Theo Francken that we intervened alongside the Danes to allow the confinement of the children. But what has happened, Prime Minister, since September 27th? First, the extreme European right woke up and seized the pact to blow its hate speech and fear. She found echo here with us in Belgium with the Vlaams Belang and, in your government, with the N-VA. For weeks, in your government, we've seen one face-to-face, one arm-to-arm, between the MR, the VLD, the CD&V on one side, and the N-VA on the other. You, Prime Minister, for more than a month, have been unable to bring back consensus in your government. You don't know how to use your authority as prime minister to say to the N-VA, "It's over. Respect your commitments. Respect your word and the rules of the game, and adopt the pact." That, Prime Minister, you are unable to do so. We can only see one thing: you cannot bend the N-VA. You are unable to bring the consensus back into your government and I think we have had the proof of that a few minutes ago. For the past three weeks, you have not moved the N-VA by one centimetre, even though a large majority of Parliament has spoken here to support you and help you force your entire government to approve this pact, but unfortunately nothing is doing there. Texts were filed, and the PS co-signed them. That of our colleagues in the CDH and the Greens, for the rest, was an unambiguous and unreserved and unconditional support. Let us acknowledge that we have sought a solution to ensure that the words of Belgium, yours, Prime Minister, expressed in New York, are not flouted. And you haven't, once again, managed to move the N-VA from an iota. Two days ago, you risked all of this by holding a press conference to announce that you were going to ask Parliament to speak on this issue and that you intended to go to Marrakech to communicate the position approved by Parliament. If I understand correctly, Prime Minister, you will travel to Marrakech to make the position of Parliament known. You will go and tell the other Heads of State and Government what the Federal Parliament thinks of the United Nations Pact on Migration. You will explain to your friend Emmanuel Macron and Xavier Bettel that the House voted a resolution. You will sit at a table and tell your neighbors: "I am the Prime Minister, but I am not speaking on behalf of my government. When I say that we support the pact, I do not mean that Belgium supports it, but that a parliamentary majority defends it." I come to another very simple question, Prime Minister: will you speak in Marrakech as Head of Government and on behalf of Belgium? Please, we'll have to answer at some point. Do I have to remind you of the role of a Parliament in the debate that is before us? The House here gives you a very good political signal. It is healthy for you to be strengthened by political support from Parliament. However, it does nothing other than give a political signal, inviting the government to adopt and defend a position. The only one Belgium can defend is that of the government. Parliament controls the government, invites the government to take a position, but Parliament does not commit Belgium. It does not give the position of our country. Let me return, for a few minutes, to the strength this Government gives to the resolutions. Colleagues, do you remember what we voted here, on 25 October 2018, almost unanimously? We have asked to subscribe to the 2030 European climate targets. Two days ago, Belgium, your government, voted against the Energy Efficiency Directive and abstained on renewable energy. That is the attention your government is paying to resolutions! Let's go back to the Migration Pact. You will go on behalf of Parliament to Marrakech, while the other Heads of State commit themselves and urge their country to support the pact. That the Prime Minister is the voice of Parliament is good, but that he says clearly that there is no position in his government. Otherwise, it is an unprecedented disregard for our institutions and our Constitution, but it is also very disrespectful of other heads of state and government. But above all what a precedent! If I believe his Twitter account, while we are debating here, Theo Francken is taking part in an Asylum and Migration summit. He is currently discussing with the Finns to facilitate repatriation to Iraq and has negotiated a bilateral agreement with Salvini Italy. Theo Franken declares, at ease, on behalf of Belgium, that your government, our country, must withdraw from the pact. While you're trying to make it look like we're going to sign the pact, the N-VA continues to work in your government and speak on behalf of the government. I imagine that Mr Franken is not negotiating, on his own behalf, an agreement with Mr Salvini! You are trying to make it seem, by going to Marrakech, that you have distanced yourself from the N-VA, but you still have, in your government, N-VA ministers (a Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers of Defence, Finance, Asylum and Equal Opportunities) who, in recent days, have once again shown their true faces. These were no longer the anniversary photos of Bob Maes, a collaborator, conferences with Jean-Marie Le Pen, comments on the added value of some of our communities, a photo with the Sudanese regime, it was a poster campaign that the far right applauded. A campaign that Dewinter said might come from the Vlaams Belang. It is therefore not enough to go to Marrakech. This does not solve the real question of how you will still be able to work, Prime Minister, with the N-VA. But let us return to the work of this Parliament. The basic text was: "We fully support the pact." As you said in New York, as do your friend Macron's France or my comrade Pedro Sanchez's Spain or Portugal, you have come to seek the support of Parliament and your majority proposes a text that diminishes the position of the authors and the co-signatories of the original text. Yesterday, my group abstained. Because we didn't want to sign you a blank check. We were not in committee to save Prime Minister Michel or the MR-N-VA government, but to support and adhere to the UN Pact on Migration. Your partners also say they support this pact unreservedly. But they don't want to write it. Why? Unreservedly, unambiguously and unconditionally support. We can be imaginative. What we fear is that Belgium will engage in interpretative declarations with other States such as Denmark, Great Britain, the Netherlands and others. Yes, Mrs Fonck, as you said yesterday, the text you are proposing to vote may still allow agreement to be reached with France, Spain and Portugal. Recognize, however, that in the debates we have had so far, these States have never been mentioned by the parties of the majority. Just read the press. And this one's illuminating. Did you read what a liberal eminence would have told La Libre? Have you read what the Liberals have in mind with the vote on the amendment they proposed yesterday? I quote: "The addition of an interpretative declaration would make it possible to control the scope of the pact in Belgium. This is the simplest solution, an analysis of a liberal source, but we are quite open to the N-VA incorporating elements. The idea is that the government can validly vote on this text." I said yesterday, around Marrakech, three kinds of states will manifest themselves: the states that fully support, and unfortunately we are not part of it; those that oppose frontally, and we are fortunately not part of it; and then, the soft belly, the grey zone, those that say "yes, but...". This resolution puts us in this soft belly, in this grey area, in that of uncertainties. Yes, we can see the glass half full or half empty but to see this government, to read the newspapers today, I fear that it will put us in the camp of Denmark and others. Denmark supports the pact, Mr Calvo, Mrs Fonck. To support this does not mean to rally enthusiastically and unconditionally. This means not opposing, but at the same time Denmark wants quotas for family reunification. Do we want to take this risk too? We can support and defend an extremely restrictive approach to the pact. This group of states led by Denmark has reintroduced into the pact the possibility of locking up children. Do we want to take the risk of negotiating with them? The ambassador explained to us that this was what made it easier for him to introduce the reservation that Belgium had on this point. Mr Prime Minister, solemnly on behalf of my group, I ask you to do so: commit yourselves today unreservedly to unconditionally and unambiguously supporting the Pact in Marrakech, as you did in New York! You just have to repeat what you have said before the United Nations and we will fully support this resolution. Tell us: 'I will say to Marrakesh that I support, that Parliament fully supports the pact we will be voting for'. Then we will vote on this resolution immediately. While the Marrakech meeting is important, another meeting is even more important. It's December 19th in New York. There, it will not be a matter of going to make a small photo with Macron, Angela Merkel or others and explaining what is happening in the national parliaments. It will be a matter of engaging Belgium, and there the government will have to support the pact. Today we tabled a resolution calling on the government to support the pact in New York. We open it to co-signature and hope that it can count on a real majority. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u56	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to say that the House of Democracy has heard your call and is providing a clear response to it, which demonstrates, indisputably, the very broad support for the Global Compact on Migration. As Ambassador Bodson brilliantly pointed out on Tuesday in committee, Belgium can honour itself with a clear, consistent and consistent position for which your majority, Prime Minister, has consistently expressed its support. When you spoke at the United Nations, you did so on the basis of the procedures and decisions that were not previously contested. This pact is an instrument in the hands of States. It will move them from reactive to proactive towards migration. It is the instrument that enables nations to control the phenomenon of migration and remove it from the claws of international crime and human traffickers. It will strengthen the sovereignty of States over the control and regulation of migration and will help to build a new balance between that sovereignty and the rights of peoples, human rights. It will provide a new platform for cooperation between Member States, a multilateral cooperation to which our country is fundamentally committed because, without international cooperation with both our neighbours and with European countries or with countries of origin, we cannot have a lasting and serious understanding of migration, whether it is regular or irregular. Migration is a world phenomenon that is often tragic but also a historical phenomenon. It has been present for centuries and will be present in the centuries to come. This compact, which incorporates the provisions of United Nations treaties to which our country has acceded, will, according to Louise Arbour - the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Migration - bring security, order and economic progress to the benefit of all and will help to prevent the exploitative, chaotic and dangerous aspects of migration from becoming a new norm. This migration ultimately affects 250 million people. It's not an impersonal hydra. When we talk about refugees, about migrants, we talk not about statistics but about human beings. These people deserve the responsibility of all States, and in particular our country. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the political games of each other, I would like to point out that the discussions we have conducted in recent weeks have had the merit of bringing a pedagogical dimension to this issue. Indeed, for three weeks now, the general public has been discovering the Migration Pact. But through what prism? The messages conveyed by each other have sometimes proved to be false, partly wrong, truncated messages, expressed in the media through a minimalist and caricatural discourse, fuelling xenophobia and intolerance. That is truly regrettable! Our challenge, as politicians, is to explain to each of our fellow citizens that it is simplistic to approach the migration issue by standing up for or against, or having preconceived ideas about whether migration is a good thing or a bad thing. To meet this challenge, we must be able to benefit fully from all the instruments of State sovereignty. We must pay attention to the need to strengthen the resilience of host countries and to create an environment conducive to the return of foreigners. This non-binding pact is an important instrument in this context. It contains elements dear to the MR. Not binding elements of law, as I have heard and read erroneously for three weeks, but guidelines, principles to be implemented according to our choice and our political will, without giving new rights to individuals again, as I have heard and read erroneously for three weeks. We always apply a very large part of these advices through a firm but humane immigration policy; a policy that has a fair and balanced dimension in order to control the phenomenon of migration to our country. It proposes a framework for cooperation that confirms the sovereignty of all States, but also encourages them to work together to facilitate the safe and dignified return and readmission of migrants and their sustainable reintegration into their countries of origin. This pact fills the gap in the true division of responsibilities among States, while respecting their national priorities and policies. The Pact confirms the possibility for States to distinguish between regular and irregular migration. With regard to family reunification, it is in line with the framework set up by Belgium. The text still provides for integrated, secure and coordinated border management. The resolution we are going to vote on today fully supports this pact. It also wanted to focus on consultation with the European countries that support the Pact, so as to strengthen the basic and positive principles of the Pact. It is clearly a matter of strengthening the weight of our voice among the European states that support this pact - and not, as some would suggest, of making reservations to this pact. I repeat: the MR fully supports this pact. It is on this basis that the Reform Movement will approve this resolution, which gives our Prime Minister a clear position to support at the international meeting in Marrakech. Mr Prime Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one word is a word. It cannot be denied by a whim or a fervour. Despite these times of populism and hostility to the political world, despite these times of simplism and caricature, the word of the politician still has a credit. There is a continuity between our Prime Minister's speech last September in the rostrum of the UN, the answers to the oral questions of recent weeks in our Assembly, the vote in the Foreign Affairs Committee yesterday and in plenary today, and the message that Mr Charles Michel will bring to Marrakech next week, as he had promised. As a liberal politician, I am fully satisfied with our political agreement and the message that we are sending to the other 192 members of the United Nations as a politician committed to values that underpin my political commitment. I know that our vote today is in line with what we Liberals have been defending since the birth of our political movement and corresponds to the philosophical roots that form the basis of our party. I know that this commitment that we are making here in this House corresponds to the mandate that the Liberal voters in the South and the North have given to our group, but also to the voters of the Christian-social family in the North and the South, but also to those of the ecological political family, which sits in a common group in our assembly. I welcome the cooperation with the parties of both the majority and the opposition gathered behind this resolution. I regret that the entire socialist family has so far been unable to join us in support of this pact. It seems to me that, in doing so, the French-speaking PS is turning its back not only on the parties that have united so that our Prime Minister can bring a clear message to Marrakech, but also on its values and its struggles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u57	Mr Clarinval, I think you are better off than coming out of the misconceptions that do not reflect yesterday's debates. We expressed something very simple about it, namely the wish that your group - like the other parties of the majority - could be in line with what the Prime Minister had said in the rostrum of the United Nations, that is to say, to defend the signing of the pact, without reservation, without ambiguity, without conditions. We support the Marrakesh Pact and we are not ambiguous about this support, unlike you and certainly, unlike some members of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u58	Mr Laaouej, you must put an end to this political resentment resulting from your position in the opposition. Stop taking this political stance. Today, it is not a vote that must be dictated by questions...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u59	Mr Clarinval, you have just made some points. I take as a witness all the observers, be it the media, the members of this assembly, the public opinion in general, civil society, to know whether the defamatory statements you have just made resist any form of analysis and verification. You are caught in flagrante delicto of propaganda and lies in the rostrum of this Parliament. I wonder if, at the time you mentioned the credibility of the word, you did not put all of your vocabulary in the same sentence, a phrase whose, obviously, you do not identify the meaning it had in your mind and, most certainly, in that of the members of your majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u60	Mr Laaouej, if you want to be consistent, then vote on our motion for a resolution. At that point, we can believe you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u61	Mr President, I have just taken to witness all the members of this House, who will be able to reread the exchanges we have had. Moreover, they are also available on the Internet. Mr Clarinval, what I have just heard does not, in substance, enhance the plea that you have developed, which is ultimately to come and ask for the support of the opposition, because the Prime Minister is unable to ensure the cohesion of his government, taken hostage that it is by a party, the N-VA, which is the relay of far-right propaganda. For the rest, what do we say? Mrs Fernandez just said so. The part of your speech on liberal values is challenging. You have reiterated your commitment to democratic values, of which we are convinced. Simply put, we ask the Prime Minister to announce that he will lift all forms of ambiguity, reserve and conditions on his support for this pact, whether in Marrakech or, more importantly, in New York in January. That is what we are asking!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u62	Mr. Clarinval has the right to a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u63	Mr President, I shall conclude by reiterating my appeal to Mr Laaouej. Mr Laaouej, if you want to be constant in your statements, support the resolution! We are very clear with this text, and we support it. Do as we do!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u64	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have already said that migration is a problem and concerns people. As politicians, we must take these concerns seriously. Every society needs social cohesion, and so we must set limits on who we take up in our country. That is what we, as responsible politicians, are doing. We impose the conditions on those who are allowed to stay in our country. Anyone who fails to do so must leave our country, voluntarily if possible, forced to do so, but always with respect for human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, we are pursuing a strict but fair asylum and migration policy. Like many countries in Europe, we have strengthened our migration legislation and our migration policy in recent years, including in the current legislature. However, we cannot solve the problem of migration alone. We do not live on an island and we do not solve the problems by passing them on to our neighbouring countries. International cooperation is absolutely necessary to control migratory flows and to prevent illegal migration. It is therefore no coincidence that the United Nations is taking an initiative to make agreements, to obtain an orderly, legal migration and to prevent illegal migration. That is what we have agreed on. Our country, with our government, has also negotiated this for two years. Our country has not participated actively in this as a grey mouse, as I have just heard. Our ambassador, Mr Bodson, was very clear about this at the committee meeting. He said that there have been several changes to the initial text, at the request of our country. At the request of our government. Our country has brought in countries that support this pact to retain their full sovereignty, their full competence. Our country has agreed with other countries that it is explicitly stated that each country, including ours, will determine its own asylum and migration policies. We decide who is admitted to our country and under what conditions. We also decide who is not allowed in our country. At the request of our country, this pact has also explicitly stated that migration is not a specific human right. At the request of our government, there is no collective regulation. At the request of our government, the possibility of limiting family reunification has been retained. At the request of our government, there is no list of basic rights of migrants. All this happened at the request of our government. There was an agreement on this in September. And that is why you gave your word, Prime Minister, in New York, at the United Nations General Assembly. Our ambassador, Mr Bodson, also said that he did not receive any comments from the government's partners, so that our country could accept the final text. Colleagues, if we work together for two years on a common position, if we succeed, we continue. And when there's trouble, they put it on the table. I've read about 30 or so problems. I haven't seen them. I've never heard of it. On Tuesday, however, I was surprised to see that the social media contained photos and texts that were violent to the truth and that were a basic lack of humanity. I have seen a campaign that claimed, among other things, and I do not sum up everything, that the migration pact would prohibit the return of illegal immigrants. Wrong. The migration pact would ease procedures for family reunification. Wrong. The migration pact would no longer make illegal residence a criminal offence. Wrong. All fake news, all tacky. Prime Minister, we have worked well within the government for about two years on this migration pact, and that has produced results. The migration pact does not grant additional special rights to migrants, it does not impose any additional obligations on our country and it is in accordance with our Belgian law, European law and our international obligations. We heard that in committee. The migration pact, as adapted, allows us to continue our strict and humane migration policies. The migration pact allows us to protect people. The migration pact does not open borders, but better controls them. The migration pact allows us to tackle smugglers. The migration pact requires countries of origin to take back those who are illegally resident on our territory. That is why we were in favour of this migration pact, which is why we are in favour of this migration pact, and that is why we remain in favour of this migration pact. Besides red lines, there are also consistent lines. Prime Minister, you asked for a mandate this week. Yesterday, our group gave you that mandate, precisely for the reasons I have just explained. Today we will do that again in plenary. It must be clear, however, that a Prime Minister does not have five qualities. A prime minister has one. You, Prime Minister, are the prime minister of our country. In this capacity, as Prime Minister of our country, our group is giving you the mandate to go to Marrakesh and New York to approve the migration pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u65	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of migration affects a great many people; it also raises many questions. We are in solidarity with war refugees, but at the same time we are wondering whether we still have control over all these migratory flows, whether our borders are still borders and whether our identity is not under pressure. I understand that. There are many concerns I share. Let me make it clear: illegal migration is indeed a problem. Living together in our country is not always easy. What we expect from politics is that we provide answers and propose solutions. I think we have a clear choice. Either we can fold back behind our own borders, we promise to build a wall around Belgium and beyond people's fears for their own political gain. What else can we do? We can sit around the table with different countries, we can try to solve the global problem, we can work with the other European Member States to speak with one European voice as much as possible, whatever the motion for a resolution that was adopted yesterday, you also ask, Prime Minister. And, of course, we must also cooperate multilaterally with the countries of origin. That is precisely why the United Nations migration pact was written. Indeed, it is an important first step to improve the control of migratory flows, with an approach to the causes of migration and with better protection, and I cannot stress this enough from the external borders of the European Union, with the fight, as has already been said here today, against the detestable smuggling of human beings and indeed, Mr Verherstraeten, with the withdrawal of illegal immigrants from the countries of origin. I regard the migration pact as a kind of compass, which will allow us to implement our own Belgian policy more effectively internationally. Prime Minister, our country has chosen the path of cooperation, because Belgium is also a country that builds bridges throughout history. Prime Minister, your government has been involved for two years in the implementation of the migration pact and the Länder of the country have also been involved in it. The Constitution requires foreign policy to be conducted by the King and his ministers, but the reality of our country is that the Länder also have an important voice in the matter. During the hearings, we heard that our ambassador negotiated in close consultation and through consultation with the relevant Cabinets, but also supported by the Länder. He has also been successful, because we learned on Tuesday that our country has been able to make very important changes to the Pact. This means that our diplomacy works: one gets input from cabinets that are under the political responsibility of ministers and that is translated into final decision-making. That's the spirit. Following the negotiations, the position was formally established on 12 September and I would like to underline this: our country and the Länder support the pact. I would just like to point out that the Flemish Prime Minister, Mr Bourgeois, was also the founder of the N-VA, which was confirmed yesterday in the Flemish Parliament. He has made it quite clear that for all the areas for which Flanders is effectively competent, the pact is fully co-existing with what Flanders wants, what the Flemish government wants. This proves that the consultation model has worked effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u66	Excuse me, I raised my finger before the sentence was spoken. It is a good thing that I did not get the floor earlier, because one must first hear the full speech of a speaker. I would also like to mention the limitation you have made, Mr Dewael. It's correct. It was about the powers in so far as they concern the Flemish Government. It's not an agreement for the pact as such. You gave that explanation. It was correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u67	It was indeed about integration, integration and language teaching for migrants. It covered all aspects for which Flanders is competent. That is to say, Mr De Roover, that we do not negotiate from a federal point of view and that we do not push away the institutional reality of our country. In other words, in the process of making the pact, the various governments of our country have really been able to make their contribution. I come to what is essential for my group, Prime Minister. On the basis of the decision taken and on the basis of the back-up that you received from the entire government, you stated on 27 September at the United Nations General Assembly for the whole world that our country would approve the pact effectively. It is therefore quite clear to my group. We are a country of rules and laws. They have been followed and respected in this regard. The decision was taken in September, with the agreement of all government parties and all governments, by consensus and solidarity. There is no legal pin, but there is no pin. Anyone who wants to come back to such a decision and change his mind, who turns his cart, must draw conclusions from it. Either we accept a decision that has been taken or we leave the government. A party cannot therefore stand inside and outside the government at the same time. Ik verwijs nog kort naar de Franse politicus Chevènement: "A minister closes his mouth or he resigns." That is the reality. Of course, the latter was not addressed to you personally, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u68	Mr Dewael, if you want to push the N-VA out of the government, you should do so in particular. It's your freedom to ask here. It will not be unknown to you that the four parties used to disagree on certain issues. At that time there was a solidarity between us, which you are now letting go. You are now formally releasing government solidarity. I don't think that's very collegial. But I leave that to you; the support of the socialists you receive for this is also on you. However, I would have liked to have heard from you on what day the agreement for the Global Compact for Migration was given in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u69	Mr President, allow me to comment on what Mr De Roover is trying to say about government solidarity. Mr De Roover, I do not have the impression that you have shown a great deal of empathy or empathy or empathy or government solidarity over the last few days and weeks. You come up with something new every day. You cross a number of drawn red lines every day. I'll leave that all on you. In any case, as far as the Pact is concerned, we have made a journey together, as other colleagues from the majority have argued. Questions have been asked from Cabinets with powers belonging to your party. Among other things, Mr Francken has made changes in the area of family reunification. All this has been seamlessly translated into the final texts. It is therefore not possible, for the sake of convenience, to translate a factor as the result of the municipal elections, or as a result of the fact that Austria is running its cart at once, to completely change direction. How that happened in Austria does not leave much to inspiration. In Austria, the Chancellor is supported by the extreme right. Suddenly, Austria said that the whole process of that migration pact had drawn, that it would no longer do so. And we're supposed to be chasing that country? I am not thinking of it yet, for the simple reason that tomorrow I do not want to be in the company of the Chancellor of Austria, by not supporting the pact, for example by abstaining from me. If you say that there must be empathy, then I must say that consensual politics presupposes that, if there are four people, there is also four people making an effort to grow together. Consensual politics cannot be understood to mean that after two years a party can suddenly say that it does not agree anymore and can then expect the three other parties to turn their carts 180 degrees to follow it. That is not an example of consensual politics. That's not how it works in a democracy. You can read a lot of constitutional specialists on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u70	It goes without saying that I leave the defence of the Christian Democratic Chancellor of Austria to my colleagues from the Christian Democrats. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u71	No? Is Mr Kurz not a Christian Democrat? I thought so. You're gonna put him in the far right. Just a few more minutes and everyone's far right. Furthermore, I am very pleased that Mr Dewael will be taking the initiative with me shortly to bring back the residences here, together with all my colleagues from the majority. More importantly, however, I note that you have not answered my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u72	Mr Dewael, I note that you do not want to be in the company of a country such as Austria, a European democratic country led, as Mr De Roover said, by a Christian Democratic Prime Minister. If this pact is signed, however, you will be in the company of countries such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Iran, Syria headed by Bashar al-Assad......................................................................................... However, you do not want to be in the company of Italy, Hungary, Austria, Estonia, Latvia and Poland, all kinds of democratic European countries that are part of the EU. I take note of that, along with many Flemings. You have your friends, I have mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u73	Mr Dewinter, I fully agree with the latter, after I have seen the footage of your visit to Syria, I have not forgotten them, but I will not go any further. Anyway, you choose your friends, I choose mine. I am merely saying that we must take advantage of all the instruments in migration policy globally to ensure that countries cooperate more closely with each other. Dialogue is on the agenda. We must try to do that, as I said earlier, and that is why I think the resolution is so important from a strengthened European perspective, and so we must try to align as many European Member States as possible. However, we must not think that we can turn our backs on ourselves; that is not how it works. Mr De Roover, you say that I am not responding to your comment. I challenge you to look at the basis, with which decision-making, on which basis we come to an international position. The government has respected all the rules in this respect: there was consultation with the Länder, the diplomatic corps was involved and the ministerial cabinets, for which the ministers are politically responsible, were given the opportunity to accompany the process. The fact that you have allowed this to happen for months and months, without having made any comments, and that you are suddenly coming all the way to the end of the road with objections that you have never raised before, only confirms my conviction that you are doing so on the basis of the results of the municipal elections and that you are doing so under pressure from international politics. We follow our line, you deviate from your line, and I do not follow you there. I don't follow you! Prime Minister, it is clear to me. For me, you must go to Marrakesh. It must be very clear to everyone: if you are there, if our country is there, we agree to the migration pact. I fully agree with what Mr Verherstraeten said about this: you are not a man with four or five qualities, no matter how much a certain group has tried to make your job a caricature. You do not go there as a tourist, you go there as the prime minister of our country and you also connect our country there. After that, of course, Belgium in New York will have to approve the text officially. You promised that on behalf of the government for the United Nations. You will also receive Parliament's support in this House-wide resolution. Appointments are appointments. You are a man of your word, our country is one of his words and we choose to cooperate. That is the motto of my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u74	Mr Dewael, I see that you are leaving the chair. So I hope you will answer my question in vain. However, it was a simple question: what day did the Council of Ministers approve it? [[Yolk]] It's obviously an annoying question, because I hear yelling on all sides. It's a very technical question. Strange how such a simple question can cause so much excitement. We may have missed something, but we just want to know on what day, at government level, in the Council of Ministers, the adoption of the Global Compact for Migration is attached.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u75	Thank you, Mr Dewael, for explaining the whole process. However, I also have a question for you. At some point, all the way to the end, the N-VA has come out with objections. Do you know the date on which the N-VA raised those objections? After all, I don't think anyone in this assembly has ever seen those objections. This is like Loch Ness' monster: everyone talks about it, but no one has ever really seen it. Do you have any objections? Do you know them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u76	Mr Vuye, I will answer Mr De Roover through you. I read in the media once that there would be 30 objections. I've never seen them, never heard them, never read them. I notice that Mr De Roover has been on the radio for the past few days with the regularity of weatherman Deboosere. The connection between them is that they tell something different every day. That's what the weatherman does, isn't it? Mr De Roover, I ask you if you have ever raised any objections. If you think, Mr De Roover, that this government has dealt with this pact, its creation and its adoption without respecting the rules, can you tell me when your Deputy Prime Minister in the government has raised the matter and asked for that item to be placed on the agenda of the Council of Ministers? That never happened! You're not gonna turn things around. You're not gonna turn things around!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u77	Mr Dewael, I have indeed made a firm bend in recent days, namely one of 360 degrees. I would also like to make a turn of 720 degrees. I will also tell you at which Council of Ministers we announced our objections. That is at the Council of Ministers where that was on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u78	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, one of the last times today I may have the opportunity to speak in an important debate. So allow me to add a personal note. I was lucky to have had a politically very conscious grandfather, who has maintained me for a very long time about the horrors of the years before and during the Second World War. I've been lucky enough to be very close to some Jewish families who have told me their horrors. Those Jewish families have drawn my attention to a specific moment in European history. I had often asked my Jewish friends if it would have been possible to prevent the tragedy that happened to the Jews in Europe. Well, that moment occurred in 1938. Shortly after Austria's Anschluss in Germany, an idealist president, Roosevelt, called a conference in Évian, where 32 countries were present. The President of the United States called for solidarity in finding a solution for the tens of thousands of Jews who had left Germany and Austria. It will sound familiar to you. It started with mandatory quotas, it went to voluntary quotas and eventually nothing happened. Those people, one or two politicians, but above all the diplomatic framework that was present with the ministers at the Évian Conference in 1938, are the people who, after the Second World War, from 1945, first with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and in 1948 with the European Convention on Human Rights, have said that we must learn from what happened in the 1930s and the first half of the 1940s. These lessons are the universal European recognition of human rights and international cooperation to solve the problems of people in need. The Global Compact for safe, orderly and regular migration is in the straight line, Mr De Roover, of the lessons to be drawn from that period. I already knew that there is a group in this House, represented by three people, who have long since been unwilling to take those lessons in 2018 on tackling a deeply human problem, which is often hidden behind migratory movements. Mr De Roover, you have always had the benefit of the doubt from me. After Tuesday, after that distasteful campaign, that rancid campaign, which is a copy of the campaign currently being launched throughout Europe by a so-called Movement for a Europe of Nations and Freedom, supported by big business from all over the world. On Saturday, this movement organizes a seminar in the Flemish Parliament. The Salvinis, the Straches, the Dewinters, and now, unfortunately, the De Wevers, are inspired by this kind of organization.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u79	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement. Mr van der Maelen, you are not just polluting the debate with your shameful insults and accusations. In addition, you should be ashamed to try to make the migration debate, which concerns so many millions of people, impossible here on the heel of the suffering of the Jewish people. Let's compare both things with each other. You compare the genocide on the Jewish people with the mass immigration we are experiencing today. Today we have 7 billion on this planet. We will be around 9 billion in 2100. That's two billion more. Famine, climate problems, underdevelopment and so on. Where do you think these people are going? Over here! We have the right to protect ourselves and we as politicians have the duty to protect our people, our nation, our culture, our identity and our civilization as Fleming, as Europeans. Finally, Mr van der Maelen, may I remind you that the country of the Jewish fellow citizens, Israel, is one of the fifteen countries that will not support the Global Compact for Migration. Is Israel a racist country? You can tell me about it from the pulpit! Is Israel a Nazi and far-right country? Is Israel a Nazi country, as you say here about all the forces in Europe, and far beyond, that do not support this Global Compact for Migration? Your remarks, your speech is unworthy of this Parliament!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u80	Mr van der Maelen, I am not going to allow you and the following speakers to put me and my group in a corner where we do not belong. There was a campaign yesterday, that is right, and it has indeed been withdrawn immediately, and that is the position of the whole group, our group leader, first and foremost. We are the kind of party that dares to admit errors right away. Let me finish, because I have a very important communication for you on what I am going through here today about the content of the debate. Perhaps you can blame us for coming out a little too late with our comments. We may have shown you how to move forward. That could be true. If you want to blame us for that, I would like to meet you there. What I find very remarkable is that we are the only party that has questions about that compact and that suddenly all these parties, red, green, PS, CD&V, Open Vld seem to think exactly the same about migration. Then I wonder what the real reasons for all these actions are. Then we must not look at the substance of the matter. At least we dare admit it if we make mistakes. We dare to move principles forward when we realize it is important. You're playing a political game here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u81	Mr President, I would like to point out to Mr. Van der Maelen, whom the Parliament of Bulgaria voted against the Marrakesh Pact yesterday, with the support of the Bulgarian Socialists who, however, were in opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u82	Mr Dewinter, in the way you have just defended your position against this compact, I hear the sounds of the 1930s. I note that you are not prepared to learn lessons from what happened between 1935 and 1945. Those classes are next. Firstly, human rights must be the basis for dealing with the deep human problems that are hidden behind migration movements, and secondly, international cooperation is the best guarantee for resolving these problems. I blamed you for that. I wonder why in the 1930s Flemish nationalist movements acted as they did, and above all why they still haven't learned the lessons from that period to deal with the current migration problems. I wonder why you haven't learned those lessons yet. And why do I see others, unfortunately, sliding? I'm coming to you, Mrs. Van Peel. Please don't say that what happened on Tuesday was a pushover from some individual employee of the N-VA. These kinds of campaigns cost a lot of money. This is not decided at a low level, it is decided at the top. The communication director of the N-VA, whose name I won't mention, but everyone knows him, has acknowledged that he has approved that campaign. Once again, this campaign, Madam President, is a copy of the Movement for a Europe of Nations and Freedom, where the parties FPÖ, Lega Nord and all the other extreme right-wing movements and parties in Europe have agreed to make a battle point for the defeat of this pact. A pact, I repeat, based on lessons from the middle of the last century. I am sorry, but I note that there are many in your party who obviously have not yet learned those lessons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u83	Mr van der Maelen, I did not think we were discussing a resolution on the thirties, but since you are bringing it up, I would also like to ask you a question. Why did the chairman of the Socialist Party in 1940, Hendrik De Man, disband the Socialist Party and call for cooperation with the New Order? Why? If you yourself have butter on your head, do not say that someone else has butter on your head.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u84	May I answer you with a question: why do those I have just mentioned repeat the mistakes of the past? Why don't they learn lessons from the past? Why do they reject two principles shared by most of the Chamber, namely that human rights should form the basis for dealing with the problem and that international cooperation is the solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u85	Mr Van der Maelen, I think that the vast majority of Flemish nationalists have already learned those lessons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u86	Then can you tell me why it has been possible for a party like the N-VA to launch such a rancid campaign?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u87	Mr van der Maelen, I suggest that you return to the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u88	I've got five minutes and I'm addressing the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, our group fully supports the migration pact. We note, and I think this is a good thing as a European, that we will try to make the widest possible European declaration. I would remind you that the opposition has only agreed to this text by stating that the explanation of vote that we will agree with other countries can only be used to explain the support, not to link to it all kinds of conditions that the N-VA dreams of. We have put our trust in you and we count on this trust not to be betrayed. In conclusion, I would like to address the Deputy Prime Ministers Kris Peeters and Alexander De Croo and, because he is here, also to the party chairman of CD&V. I assume the party chairman of Open Vld will get the message. Gentlemen, please do politics a service and stop arguing about this migration pact. We are from the opposition, but I am very aware of the fact that people outside see us as part of politics, to whom they blame us for dealing with problems that they are not concerned about. The N-VA may have its reasons to fear what will happen at the end of May next year. I have the impression that she's acting on that and that she's already in campaign mode. But, as I have just said, there are people who are concerned about the end of the planet. Two days ago, they were shocked to learn of our government's attitude to a number of climate-related issues on the agenda. There are also people who are worried about the end of the month, how they should make ends meet, how they are going to get the many increased invoices paid, how they are going to look at the figures relating to unresolved debts and how they are going to pay their debts. Please prove to the citizens of this country that politics cares about citizens' concerns. Address these problems and bear in mind that, unfortunately, a growing number of citizens in our country are in a very difficult position. I'm rounding up. Prime Minister, we support you, go to Marrakesh, go to New York and say that you approve the pact on behalf of the Belgian Government and the whole country. However, I would ask you, the Deputy Prime Ministers and the government parties, with even more pressure to deal with the problems of the ordinary man in the street. This is urgently needed, and the score for the credibility of politics is very low. As a Member of this House and as a democrat, I am very concerned about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u89	Mr Van der Maelen, if it were true that it was your last speech, I would be very sorry. I shall miss you, because you are the excellent interpreter of all the reasons why we are against the Pact. I shall miss you, because you are a morally superior politician and a naive globalist. Of course, you're not that naive, you're just using it to season your left-wing populism. I'd love to hear you. I'd like the entire population to hear how you're defending the pact. Then they'll understand why we're against it. One can be against a pact for a variety of reasons. One can think that it goes too far or that it doesn't go far enough. Well, in the debates on migration and asylum policy, it is always between those who are in favour of closed borders, to which we do not belong, and those at the other extreme who are in favour of total limitlessness. I have noticed that no one refuses to approve the pact because it would not go far enough. Apparently, it even meets the concerns of the most extreme advocates of open border policy. You're one of the ones sitting in that corner. I therefore understand why you are in favour of the pact. The reasons why you are in favour of the Pact are the copy-pasted reasons why we are against the Pact. If we had not started thinking earlier and arrived here with the intention of expressing our support for the Pact, I would have given it some thought after your speech. When the fox preaches the passion, it is high time to watch the geese.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u90	Mr President, I am pleased that we are trying to convince each other of the acceptance of the Pact on the basis of substantive arguments. I hear Mr De Roover say that Mr Van der Maelen is in favour of the Pact because he is in favour of open borders. Mr De Roover, where does the pact say that there will be open borders? If the pact would suggest that, why did the competent Secretary of State say here in the Chamber in April that he was in favour of orderly, legal migration and the non-binding GMC? Why did he say that then, if there were already open borders at the time, when we only reinforced the texts even more afterwards?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u91	Mr. President, Mr. De Roover has used us, in the last few hours or days, to untruths, lies and personal attacks on a whole series of personalities. I wouldn't just want to pay tribute to you, Mr. Van der Maelen, for his work here in Parliament, receives the insults of Mr. From Roover. I would like to pay tribute to a colleague who throughout all these years has shown his honesty and commitment, a colleague with whom I have not always agreed but who has shown his probity and seriousness. He showed that he didn't come with fake news!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u92	Mr Dallemagne, perhaps you have not understood a number of nuances in my speech because of the language. Once again, and before you say it's une seizure again, I fully understand that. Indeed, this sometimes complicates pure communication. So let me clarify this: I commend Mr van der Maelen for his consequence. I understand very well why he's in favour of the pact. That is not a seizure, on the contrary. You are a consistent politician when you come here to argue for the Marrakesh Pact, Mr Van der Maelen. That may have clarified the misunderstanding. Mr Verherstraeten, you ask why Secretary of State Francken gave that reply in April. Well, because the trial was going on back then. We have been involved in that process. [[Tumult]] Firstly, we have cooperated and, secondly, it is Thursday today. How the hell is it possible? We have never said anything other than that we have cooperated in this. Political decision-making comes to an end. Anyone in this hemisphere who claims that the political decision-making process comes at the beginning and that everything that follows automatically falls within it, of course knows that he is lying. Finally, it asks where the Pact states that open borders are to be established. I didn't say that. I say that the Pact is a manifestation of the support that the Pact receives from the open border lobby, which is, among other things, a danger. Because that door is not closed in the pact, on the contrary, because it opens up the possibility, we are against it. I keep communicating clearly and clearly, for those who want to hear it, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u93	Mr De Roover, you said just now in your speech that the pact, as it would have been the custom for decades, was discussed among diplomats, officials and employees, but never raised to a political level. On 24 April, the Secretary of State here in Parliament expressed his support for this pact. That is not at the level of civil servants, that is at the political level. This was discussed here in Parliament by the Secretary of State, by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders, in March. It is on the basis of all these discussions that the Prime Minister went to New York and stated what he said. You cannot now say that it was all laughable and that there has never been any political decision-making. Since 24 April until the time when the Pact was politically discussed in the UN by the Prime Minister, you have had the opportunity here every Thursday to ask your thirty questions and to let them know that you did not agree. I have often been here on Thursday afternoons, but at no time have I heard you speak about this. Now to say that the pact is going to be discussed in the government, when you have had every opportunity, while your own Minister, your own Secretary of State, has come here to discuss it in Parliament, that is not true. That's not serious. Then you say you've changed your mind. That can, you can change your mind, but you cannot say that the pact is only now being lifted at a political level, because that is fundamentally incorrect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u94	Luckily, there have been defeated. Fortunately, there is even an integral report. Of course it has been at a political level. Everything that happens here throughout the decision-making process happens at a political level. My question is at what point in the decision-making process took place. When was the finalized Global Compact for Migration formally approved by the government, as it should be? That's the question. That's where the decision is made.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u95	If the Prime Minister of Flanders, with his powers, is behind this Pact, that seems to me to be the best proof that it was politically validated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u96	Mr De Roover, before replying, I would like to say that I am tired of your game if anyone who disagrees with you were tired of open borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u97	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u98	Yes, you did. Should the pact dictate that an open border approach should be implemented internationally, I would be against it. I repeat what the pact is. It is in line with the lessons learned from the middle of the last century, lessons translated into the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights, and the failure of a purely national policy to solve a problem of numbers of refugees. This pact draws those lessons from the past. I am not blind, and I think everyone who looks around will see what is happening in Europe and in the United States. Everyone sees that the achievements laid down in human rights and in our democracies, namely the rule of law and the freedom of the press, are being undermined and that there is a dehumanisation of all those who have to flee their country and go elsewhere as refugees. The campaign that your party has launched knowingly and willingly on Tuesday proves to me that cancer has reached Belgium as well as the largest party in Belgium, which is also the largest government party.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u99	Mr President, I would like to ask for the deletion from the report of Mr Van der Maelen's language, where he compares my party with a cancer. I will not, however, do so, because I want it to remain in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u100	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am glad that we can have the debate in your presence today, because I think that the question that arises is primarily a question for your attention. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already been said and much has happened in the past. That's got a lot of downsides. One of the drawbacks is that no one can follow. Outside Parliament, a lot of people are wondering what is actually happening here. Another disadvantage is that many other important themes, one of which is migration, have not received the attention they deserve in recent times. We are talking today about our position in Marrakesh, but at the same time we also need a delegation to Katowice. So the scene, the circus that takes place here, has a lot of disadvantages. However, the long-term discussions have the advantage that a lot of questions have already been answered, so we already know a lot of things. For example, we already know the answer to the question of whether the migration pact is an open border pact. After all, a quick look at the 23 objectives of the UN Migration Pact shows that it is a balanced pact. Objective 2: Addressing the causes of migration. Objective 4: Provide identity documents to take care of people, but also as part of a return policy. Objective 9: Combating trafficking in human beings. Objective 11: to work on border surveillance; the word "border" has very often been used and international cooperation is organised in this area. Objective 16, the Geert Bourgeois objective: working on social cohesion and the integration of migrants. Objective 21: Working together on a return policy. Mr De Roover's assertion that the migration pact is an open border pact is bullshit. That claim, as Mr Verherstraeten said, is fake news. Colleagues, when the UN migration pact becomes policy, that is indeed good news for people on the run. That's a good thing. If this pact becomes policy, it will also be bad news for smugglers, for people who are making money from the misery of others today. Ladies and gentlemen, after the long debate, the answer to whether this is a balanced pact is a very clear yes. Another question to which we already know the answer is whether the N-VA has been involved. The answer to that is clearly yes. The last two years have not only been worked by civil servants, in places we do not know. There has also been a political discussion over the last two years. The N-VA was clearly involved as the largest government party. Another question to which we already know the answer is why the N-VA changed its mind. Why did the N-VA change its mind very shortly after the instruction note of our foreign minister, who is not acting in a personal capacity, but who is a member of a government in accordance with the Constitution? The answer to that question is Sunday 14 October. Filip Dewinter and the Flemish Interest were, together with Groen, the winners of the elections in Flanders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard Mrs van Peel's plea, but I am still thinking about it. If it is not the intention of the N-VA to look like the Flemish Interest, then she has done her best in the past. Unfortunately, the differences are getting smaller every day. I'm sorry about that. I already told you this week. I am sorry, Mr Jambon, that you are becoming more and more like Filip Dewinter. I would like the largest Flemish party to be a democratic party, an ambassador of humanity and respect, also for people on the run, a party that is not only busy with Christmas stalls in town halls, but also with the real Christmas story, namely taking care of people who are having a hard time and want to be a warm home for them. Once it was Bart De Wever's ambition to give Flemish nationalism a democratic face. Once it was Bart De Wever's ambition to bring down the Flemish Block. I regret to note that you are helping to mainstream their ideas today, Mr Jambon. So those questions have been answered. We also know the answer to the question whether the text before us today is a good text. Yes, it is a good text, ladies and gentlemen, because people of good will have contributed to it. Mr Jambon, you are rather laconic, but you should be ashamed, because opposition group leaders have done what you have failed to do in your capacity as Deputy Prime Minister in the past. To this day, you will be paid as Deputy Prime Minister. What did you do? You didn't do anything. You didn't do anything to reach an agreement. We did. Mr Prime Minister, the text before us today is not our text, it is not our resolution. However, ladies and gentlemen, this is a text which is very clear and which states that our country must support the UN migration pact. The text also states that if we look for allies in Europe, which is important, we will do so in order to increase support for the Pact. So we can answer the question together: yes, it is a good text. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have listed a series of questions to which we already know the answer. I have listed the questions that have been answered. However, Prime Minister, there is one question that has not been answered today. How will you deal with this in your capacity as Prime Minister? You have asked for a mandate from Parliament. You'll get that. We cannot answer that question. Only you can answer that question today. You have our support when the answer to the question is very clear, which may be strange. Other opposition parties make a different choice. Our support will be very clear at that time. However, this support is not unconditional either. After all, we, French-speaking and Dutch-speaking ecologists, believe that you can only give one answer. We will approve the Pact as a country, not as a Parliament but as a country. You can only give one answer because you are just one person, especially the Prime Minister of this country. You're the captain of this country. I hope that you will clarify this matter today. The text should in principle give you sufficient strength. Prime Minister, I have an amendment here to tighten up the text if necessary. However, I sincerely hope that it will not be necessary. You have a mandate here in Parliament today from Social Democrats, from Christian Democrats, from Liberals, from many people. So do not be distracted and make sure that we do not have to table the amendment. Make yourself clear at first. Ladies and gentlemen, the text before us goes beyond our differences. Mr Van Peel said that when it comes to Belgian migration and asylum policies, there are differences of opinion in this House, that is correct. Mr Dewael and I disagree. We also fundamentally disagree on many other things. But what brings these parties together today is the strong belief that one cannot solve a problem such as migration from one's own island. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a strong conviction that in this age, at this time, after this period, we cannot, on the one hand, say that the United Nations must deliver a strong product and, on the other hand, we in this Parliament cannot transcend our own differences. Colleagues, this conviction lies at the basis of our actions. Mr Prime Minister, we hope that this will also allow time for other matters. Mr Beke and Mr Dewael, I am convinced today that I have applauded many of the things you have said. But you're gonna have to stop that cinema today. We must be honest and say that this cannot be sustained. This has to stop. If we want to be able to talk about Katowice, that episode on Marrakesh must be concluded. Colleagues, there are many other challenges. When it comes to Mr Jambon's plush, and the question of whether he will remain Deputy Prime Minister, there are people in our capital who are almost freezing to death in the cold. Ladies and gentlemen, we want a government that can also tackle these problems. Finally, Prime Minister, you must come to this seat and say what it says. In that case, we will support you. I hope that as a politician, as group leader of Ecolo-Green, but also as a citizen and as a Belgian. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the vote and the Prime Minister's statement, which may well mean the fall of this government, will be a new beginning in particular. I hope that this can be the beginning of a new era in which our country no longer hesitates but takes the lead. Mr Prime Minister, what drove us over the last few days and weeks is that this government may fall, but what should not perish is the Belgian tradition of cooperation. We've done our job. We stuck our necks out. Now it's up to you to be clear. Prime Minister, it is now up to you to draw a red line.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u101	Mr Prime Minister, one thing is very clear at this stage of the debate. She's been very clear for a few weeks. There is a majority in this Parliament to support the Pact for safe, orderly and regular migration. What you asked Parliament on Tuesday night is to give a clear signal. It'll be given later. We want you to draw all the consequences and conclusions. The aim of the vote which the Ecolo-Groen Group will take is to try to save what remains of Belgium's dignity after four years of MR-N-VA government, to save above all what remains of our ability to conclude ambitious international agreements, whatever the matter and first here, on migration. It is a United Nations compact that addresses this issue of migration. This is probably the most complex issue with the climate that we, as politicians, have to resolve in the coming years. This challenge of a more humane and effective treatment that comes to us in Belgium, but in even more dramatic ways in other parts of the world, requires a global frame of reference. This phenomenon cannot be managed as you have done for the past four years, in a purely national logic and by a policy of rejection, by a policy of stigmatization and by the organization of the chaos of which your Secretary of State in charge of the Asylum is specialist. The Pact is a balanced text. Migration requires an effective and humane response and cooperation between countries. Thanks to international cooperation, thanks to the definition of a framework that is effective against all States through the reaffirmation of fundamental rights, including the one that formally prohibits the confinement of a child, but also through the reaffirmation of the duties of each other, migrants and welcoming people, we will be able to find answers at the global level. It is the object of the Covenant that is now the equivalent of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We must regain, Prime Minister, this ability to weigh on the international stage and lead to positive decisions on key issues. I cannot ignore and do not parallel the ongoing negotiations at Katowice COP24. We ask you, on migration issues as well as on climate issues, to take you back. The purpose of the vote we are going to take is not to save your government but to change the course of things. This is our political responsibility. Prime Minister, in the face of the impossibility of a consensus in your government, in the face of the finding of divorce in your government, you appealed to Parliament on Tuesday night to decide the matter. You asked him for a clear signal. A clear majority emerged yesterday in committee. I have no doubt that we will give the same clear signal and call for Belgium to adopt, to support this Pact for Migration. I have heard my colleagues, Mr Dewael, Mr Verherstraeten. They are very clear too. Prime Minister, after this vote, the ball will be in your hands. What are you going to do with it? We look forward to your word. We heard you at the rostrum of the United Nations on 27 September, saying: "My country regrets that international agreements, which are the fruit of bitter and intense negotiations, can be abruptly and unilaterally thrown into nettles." Will you accept that we throw this deal to the nettles? You also said: "Extremists and human traffickers are in the same bag. They are instrumentalizing and fuelling the migration issue; for some, for electoral and political purposes; for others, for lowly financial purposes." Did you see the N-VA? That seems very clear to me. "My country will sign the Global Pact on Migration in Marrakech in December." Prime Minister, will you go to Marrakech? To say what? Will your word commit our country and your government? Or will it be a tourist mini-trip, as some claim at the N-VA? Are you going to New York on December 19? Will Belgium be represented there? What vote will be taken on our behalf, on behalf of the Government, on the United Nations resolution on this pact? The bullet is on your side. Prime Minister, we ask you to return to the path of dignity, to close this unfortunate parenthesis for our country, which has lasted four years, to join the camp of those who seek solutions rather than to sow chaos.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u102	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister of the Interior, I am pleased that you have been able to join us at my request because I also expect your comments on what has been said. You have not been heard much here in Parliament on all these issues, and it would have been totally unacceptable for you not to be here today in view of the crisis you are causing in the government. The crisis is also a crisis in Belgium as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to make an observation. We are definitely a strange country. Of the 193 countries of the United Nations, we are probably the only country to experience a crisis caused by a non-binding pact, which we wished for as a result of the chaos of migration in 2015. This pact, as Ambassador Bodson recently pointed out, we have ardently and skillfully negotiated it. Our most senior officials, our diplomats, our political leaders, including Mr. Francken, had expressed their full satisfaction. The Prime Minister himself warmly greeted him at the United Nations rostrum in New York last September. Despite all this, we are the only country where this pact causes a serious political crisis that could bring down the government. We see the ridicule, the absurdity of the situation. We see the serious responsibility of the N-VA and, behind it, of the entire government. Yet everything was said about the fact that the purpose of this pact was to mark migration, to frame it rather than to allow it to continue chaoticly. Everyone knows that, in the coming decades, we will need as much as bread, Mr Jambon, international cooperation to regulate migration, to ensure that it is safe, orderly and regular. For this reason, our group will obviously support this pact. Those who oppose this pact are against safe, regular and orderly migration. And, to put it another way, all those who are for dangerous, irregular and disorderly migration will not sign this pact. No, this pact does not give new rights to migrants! No, this pact does not open our borders! No, this pact does not allow "invasion," to take the term dear to Donald Trump. No, this pact does not even prohibit, while it could have done so, the confinement of minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u103	When the Secretary of State for Migration goes to Rabbat or Nouakchott, as he did recently, to sign readmission agreements, he does nothing but seek to strengthen international cooperation. He knows very well that the Pact, in its objective 21, will be able to help him, precisely, to increase the number of readmission agreements. But he preferred, irrationally or rather intentionally, to reject this pact. We'll get back to it. Everything was said, particularly by Ambassador Bodson at his hearing before our Committee on External Relations, about the fact that Belgium had been very active in ensuring that this comprehensive pact met Belgium's interests and concerns. Far from being distracted, our diplomats, representatives of political cabinets, our officials, have drawn up, along with other countries of course, a good text. The latter insists on the responsibility of each State, both the countries of origin and the host countries. It is a pact that will not change our standards or our laws, because it is already largely part of the inventory of good practices listed under the 23 objectives to be achieved. It is a pact that is aimed first and foremost at countries that do not now grant any rights to migrants, whether they are the country of origin or the host country. In many ways, although we can improve, we know that we are already among the good students of the world class in terms of migrants' rights. Why then do we attend this pathetic room? Why, when there are so many social emergencies in terms of employment, purchasing power, pensions, climate, risk bringing down the government? We talked about surrealism in Belgium. I don't believe it. I do not believe in this surrealism, but I believe that there is nothing improvised. There is a will, that of the N-VA, to seek the crisis. All government parties bear collective responsibility because it was predictable. The worm had been in the fruit since the beginning of this government. What the N-VA wanted, we knew: a break, a turnaround. We knew they were nationalists. Independents, we knew it. Anti-Europeans, more and more, and unfortunately, populists; it was growing, but it appears more clearly today, with a triple objective: to break the country, to further fragment the European Union and to drag the far right. Because behind the ongoing harassment that takes place in the federal government, which we see in tax, energy, climate, foreign policy - still today with Sander Loones - and especially in migration matters, is the desire to weaken our country. Behind the desired weakening of the role of Prime Minister, we are looking for a demonstration that the federal state could be an empty shell. But there's worse than that. There is the will to question the humanist foundations of our societies; to break with what is at the heart of our common political heritage: the search for negotiated solutions, dialogue between States, and the consolidation of coordinated governance on the major issues of the moment. Reason, optimism and research with other nations of human progress are now demonized, mocked, vilipidized by the N-VA. However, I would like to address my colleagues in this party. I don't share your nationalist ideas. I never shared them. But as long as they were within the framework of our fundamental values, within the framework of the Declaration of Human Rights and our Constitution, they were respectable. The day before yesterday, you crossed the red line and turned into another world; that of fantasies and lies, hatred, fear and xenophobia. You took this, a serious responsibility. In a way, you got out of the game. I expect the government to learn the political lessons from this shocking episode. One may wonder whether Belgium has not already passed through this government and its members on the other side of the mirror; in the court of the countries that have among their government, Salvini, Orbán, Strache. Will we tolerate, in our country, our government, in the heart of Europe, in the country that founded the major international institutions, which welcomes the European institutions, the ferments of what could dislocate us, permanently damage the humanist project that Europe is carrying? This is a question that is being asked of us, which is being asked of you. Prime Minister, when I see that, still today, Theo Francken is on Twitter with an Italian parliamentarian of the far right, I think this question deserves an urgent answer. I would like to return to our resolution. First of all, I am pleased that our group, before the Prime Minister asked for Parliament's opinion, tabled a resolution that served as a basis for discussion. For it was normal and indispensable for us to have a debate on this pact, on a question as central and cleavage as migration. I am also pleased that the PS and DéFI have co-signed our resolution. Ecolo-Groen also submitted a text. From the outset, I had announced that I wanted Parliament to express itself by a very large majority in favour of full support for this pact. For there are times when all democrats, regardless of their sensitivity, nuances or disagreement, must join when it comes to preserving the dignity of their country and of the European Union, the dignity of every human being, even migrant, the indispensable multilateralism, our vocation to influence the international community in favour of human progress. The amended resolution is sober and clear. The Belgian Federal Parliament supports the Migration Pact without reservation or ambiguity. I am pleased that this text has already received a large majority in committee. The device could have been more precise. This is not a great moment of literature, neither in French nor in Dutch, I agree. But it is clear that it supports the Pact and calls for consultation with other European states in order to support it. Is Parliament in its role with this resolution? Of course! I recall the sequence: Belgium approves the pact at the COORMULTI meeting on 12 September. Mr De Roover, whether you want it or not, she approved it on September 12. The meeting concluded with a well-known statement: "Belgium (not COORMULTI) believes that the text is balanced, reflects the concerns we have expressed and is an important step forward at the global diplomatic level. Therefore, not only will Belgium approve the text in Marrakech in December, but it will proactively invite other countries to do so."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u104	Mr De Roover, if your ministers had any objections to make, it was at that time that they should have expressed them. They knew the text. They approved it. Mr. Jambon's representative was present at the meeting on 12 September and he approved it. On September 27, the Prime Minister announced this decision in the United Nations rostrum. A few days ago, he himself asked for the opinion of Parliament, which had already dealt with the matter. I repeat. The resolution is addressed to the government, like all House resolutions, even if the way is implicit. The question that arises today, Prime Minister, is that of the next step: what will you do in Marrakech? There is, in my view, no doubt about this! You'll go there as head of government. You will represent Belgium and all its institutions. There's no other scenario. Only Heads of State and Government or their representatives, if any, are accredited for such conferences. You will not be able to speak in Parliament; you are not his spokesman or messenger; you are the head of government, and I hope that you will go to Marrakech in that capacity, and I look forward to your clarifications. I ask you once again here whether you do have the government's agreement and whether you are going there as Prime Minister. I also ask you, Prime Minister, to confirm to our ambassador to the United Nations that our country will indeed vote for the United Nations resolution in favour of this pact on 19 December. Colleagues, there are times when we have to say together what unites us beyond parties, beyond our sensitivities. The vast majority of us, I have the firm conviction, seek to build a soothing society, where every human being is regarded with dignity, with respect, as having rights and responsibilities. We seek to cooperate, to find political solutions to the problems of the moment in solidarity. We turn away from violence, chaos and arbitrariness. This resolution gives us the opportunity to gather around these common wills. I hope that it will bring together as many of us as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u105	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not alone here today. I am not here on behalf of my party, not on behalf of our three Members of Parliament; I am here on behalf of millions of citizens in the country who are full of mass immigration and the nuisance and problems caused by mass immigration. I have today brought with me the 130,000 signatures gathered in barely three weeks by means of an Internet petition, which can still be signed, should anyone feel called, on the website stopmarrakesh.com. Every day more than ten thousand spontaneous signatures come from citizens of this country, mainly Flemings, who do not like mass immigration and who do not like this Pact either. (Mr Dewinter brought a pack of paper.) Colleagues, and I am also addressing the many journalists who have appeared, today a poll has been published in the media to show that only one in three Flemings thinks the Marrakech Pact is worth the fall of the government. Interesting poll. However, I am asking myself, together with many citizens of this country, where is the actual and most interesting and relevant poll, namely the question to the citizens of this country: are you in favour of or against the Marrakesh Pact? Do you, ladies and gentlemen journalists from newspapers and television stations dare to take this poll? Then you will see something else than will be evident from the vote in this House. Do you dare to hold a referendum on the Marrakesh Pact, Mr Prime Minister, or do you dare to ask whether there should be more or less immigration to our country? We all know that the vast majority of this country does not like mass immigration and its many negative consequences and also rejects the Marrakesh Pact. Colleagues, I would like to address myself to Mr Van der Maelen, but apparently he is already in parliamentary retirement. I am tired of anyone who opposes this capitulation pact being constantly accused of racism and xenophobia and pushed into the far-right fucking corner. Fifteen countries do not go to Marrakesh, including the US, Austria, Italy, Hungary, Australia. Today alone, the parliaments of three countries have decided not to go to Marrakesh. Switzerland has decided that today, Latvia has decided that today, and Bulgaria has decided that. Three countries of the European Union. These are 15 countries, ladies and gentlemen, representing more than 521 million people. That is more than the entire population of the European Union combined. Their governments say no to this suicide pact. Are all these countries, all these governments and all these people suddenly right-wing extremists, racists, foreign haters and what else do I know? Of course not. The technique of putting away anyone who is immigration critical as a racist and alien hater, as an extreme right-wing and fascist, is outdated, ladies and gentlemen on the left and from center left à la Vld and CD&V. Unlike this Parliament and this government, or even a significant part of it, the governments of these fifteen or eighteen countries are taking the side of their people, while many of you are still taking the side of the globalist, multicultural and politically correct elite. Times are changing ! The globalists, the multiculturalists, those who choose diversity and want to achieve it through mass immigration: their time is over. There is a new Europe and even a new world order forming around figures like Trump, around figures like Victor Orbán, around the Salvinis and Straches of this world. Learn to live with it, ladies and gentlemen from the left! Put the debate to rest, instead of just blaming and compromising. Ladies and gentlemen, with this Marrakesh Pact, you are dividing the world into two groups. On the one hand, those countries that reject the Pact, want to maintain their sovereignty and keep their borders closed, on the other hand, the African and Islamic countries that want to use it and abuse it to shift their problems of overpopulation, poverty and underdevelopment from mass immigration to us, mainly on Europe. They are supported by naive, multicultural, politically correct countries that participate in this slavish, globalist, one-world-open-border agenda that the United Nations ultimately represents. Ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this pact, I would like to ask you which countries will attract the many tens of millions of refugees, illegal immigrants, transmigrants and fortune seekers. To our countries, of course, to those that will approve the Global Compact for Migration in Europe. If you want to know what is in this pact, you should not even read those 27 pages. Read Article 8: "We recognise that migration is a source of prosperity, innovation and sustainable development in our globalised world and that this positive impact can be optimised through better government management of migration." Take a look at the promotional video on Twitter from the United Nations, which clearly says the following. You can see it on my Twitter account, quote: "Migration is inevitable, necessary and desirable." Migration is inevitable, necessary and desirable. This pact, Prime Minister, makes our country and the European countries that will support it with us, the country of arrival for foreigners from all over the world. This pact is a wir-schaffen-dass invitation to come down here and we do not want that. Ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, you must finally confess your colour today. Mr De Roover, there seems to be a lot of red lines in the N-VA. I support you, Mr Jambon. I hear we look alike. I heard the leader of the Green Party say this. That may not be a compliment to you, but it might be a compliment to me. In any case, I support you in your fight against this pact. I think it is brave what you are doing to put even your government mandates in the balance if necessary to stop this pact. You dare do this, too, if you have to. We are not asking for the fall of the government. We ask for the fall of the Global Compact for Migration. That's what we care about, not the fall of this government. I have the impression that for many other parties only the fall of the government, the stigmatisation and dismissal of the N-VA from the government has become the priority. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to know what is in this pact, you should take the trouble to look up a few words. In this Pact we read 99 times the word global and globalism. We read 58 times the words human rights. We read 18 times the word discrimination, 12 times inclusion, 15 times racism and xenophobia. However, we read zero times the words illegal, border control, push back, to detain, rehabilitation, culture of cultural, identity, values of civilization.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u106	Anyone who wants to know what is in this pact has enough in this list to realise that the UN's globalist agenda is being followed here, not the agenda of the sovereign states and the peoples concerned. Prime Minister, if you go to Marrakesh, which you obviously do as Prime Minister and not as city tripper, then you are indeed violating the Constitution. I warn you, I will not hesitate to go to the Council of State in interim proceedings with my group. Tomorrow the government will probably decide formally and then we will have a basis to go to the Council of State in interim proceedings. We will have that decision destroyed because it will be unconstitutional. According to Article 167 of the Constitution, you are binding the government on foreign affairs, pacts and agreements. That means that if your government does not decide unanimously, you will not be able to go to Marrakesh as head of government, nor will you be able to vote in New York afterwards. So, Prime Minister, stay at home and for once do not side with the extreme right, Orbán or Trump or any political party, intention or group, take the side of common sense. Choose the side of the man in the street who suffers from immigration. Make sure that cities such as Charleroi, Liège, Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent and Kortrijk but also Paris, Munich, London and so many other European cities do not become Marrakesh. So stay away from Marrakesh and make sure you side with the people. Do not support the Marrakesh Pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u107	Mr President, Prime Minister, in addition to the challenge posed by Belgium's commitment to the international arena, in order to fulfil your commitment to the United Nations, another issue is emerging in the light of the crisis that has arisen in your privileged partner, the N-VA. By refusing to take on the consequences of its political choices, the N-VA seeks to impose a permanent duality at the head of the executive. The N-VA seeks to impose a permanent difference in the conduct of the country's affairs. It has often done so successfully, to the extent that other majority partners have had to submit. But we cannot accept that today, outside the country, there is still a Theo Francken who claims that Belgium will not sign the United Nations Pact on Migration and a Prime Minister who asks Parliament to assume its responsibilities. In short, what the N-VA seeks to impose is the very foundation of its political action: the destruction of the interior of our institutions to gradually lead to drift towards confederalism, this infernal logic that will prepare separatism. There is no possibility of cohabitation within the Belgian government between two trends. There is no Franken government and the Michel government. The moment of truth will come sooner or later. The situation created by the behaviour of the N-VA is untenable. You will have to take on now essential choices, Prime Minister, because you have had the heavy responsibility, and still have, for bringing this party into power. The question is whether, despite his obstinacy to stay there in order to prepare for this institutional drift which he calls for of his wishes, you agree to keep it there. That is the issue of the domestic policy debate. You appealed to Parliament because you were unable to impose a course of action within the government. It's not a call you made to try, after that, to make an arrangement at a small week, to resort to an entouroupe to save time, to finally allow you to even reboot with the N-VA. Or maybe your call wasn't sincere and he had a dose of cynicism. If he doesn't have his dose of cynicism, then you have to make choices, Prime Minister. What is being asked of you by Parliament is not trivial, since you have appealed to it. When Parliament votes a resolution, it is not just to have a form of incantation. Since you have appealed to Parliament's responsibility, you now have an obligation of outcome, Prime Minister. This obligation of result is first of all to sign on behalf of the Belgian State the Pact on Migration. It is not a question of being Parliament's press attaché in Marrakech, it is a question of fully assuming the function that is yours and of assuming the responsibility of the government because you have asked Parliament to commit its own on this issue. Then you have the responsibility to ensure the unity of the institutions of our country and to ensure that at the end of this crisis, either the N-VA submits itself, or it demits itself, or you take the institutional and constitutional means that Belgian law gives you to exclude the N-VA from the majority and the government. We will not be able to live five months – until the elections – with a permanent duality that is the one that the N-VA wants to impose in the management of this country. That's what's at stake. Yes, we will, like all other democratic parties, accept this United Nations Pact. Parliament has assumed its responsibility. Parliament preserves the honour of this country on the international stage and responds in this way to the question that was again read in the French-language press by the Spanish Minister for Foreign Affairs. The latter rightly denounced the duplicity of the ministers of the N-VA when the Minister of National Defence continued to spread in Europe by supporting the Catalan independenceists beyond reasonableness. This is not the reputation of Belgium on the European stage. We can all have ideas about the situation in Catalonia, but it is not up to a Belgian minister - even if it belongs to the N-VA - for whom the Belgian flag is meaningless, as he has said, to harm our European reputation in such a case. Already, the N-VA has worked for many weeks and months to tarnish Belgium's image abroad. If, today, you were to accept that this permanent duality persists within the government, allowing the N-VA – through its deviousness – to finally lead the country to drift towards confederalism, you, Prime Minister, would shoulder the heavy responsibility before the people for letting this party push our institutions adrift. Take Parliament's surprise as a point of strength and let us know once and for all that the N-VA no longer has its place in your government!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I see some unrest in the eyes of the CD&V Group. Until recently, she was the uncharted and crowned champion of the better bending. Now she's dethroned. The N-VA counts in its ranks the man who takes turns faster than his shadow. He's pulling red lines and getting them out quick. At first, there couldn't be a changeling majority. That line's already gone. Then the Prime Minister wasn't allowed to go to Marrakesh. That line's gone, too. What's the party supposed to do? It remains in the government and opposes the government. What can it do if it is unable to join the consensus? What does she do? Then she'll either quit or the Prime Minister will take them out. She can stay put, too. But what does that mean? Then she joins the consensus, which, by the way, was done by the former champion in the corner in 1990 when she was put in the minority under abortion legislation. She also did so in 2014 when she was a member of the government and was placed in the minority regarding euthanasia. Then CD&V stayed in the government. The consequence was that it had to join the consensus and CD&V accepted that consequence. However, the N-VA seems to want to do something else. Let me now come to the content of the pact. People are rightly concerned about migration. We politicians must respond to this concern. But it seems that neither the N-VA Group nor the Flemish Interest Group have understood this. Firstly, whether the government is dropped and whether or not we are going to Marrakesh, the UN migration pact is coming. Because that is what is happening within the United Nations. As long as we are members of the United Nations, this will apply to us, including Hungary, including Austria and all those other countries. It would have been possible to alter the Pact, but it should have been done two years ago. Then one could give it a different twist, then one could draw a red card. According to Mr De Roover, the pact was written in backrooms, but who was there writing at the table? That was Secretary Francken. Afterwards, you say you didn't know it was dangerous at the time. Stop your show, with your pictures on Twitter, and try to clean up your own debris. Your chairman, the captain's back in Antwerp, I see he's hit a mea culpa on the radio. He said that his party had indeed started far too late. Then there is no point in demanding that the Prime Minister should not go to Marrakesh. There's gonna be that UN migration pact anyway. Let us at least do what we can. I know it's a straw, but let's work on an explanation of vote. Let us identify the problems we have with the text. My group wants to contribute to this and is prepared to use its know-how to do so, although we are opposed to the Pact. We are well aware of the need to clean up. We must now try to do what we can still do and not put on a big show, which will ultimately lead nowhere. Then it will be possible to tackle the real problems. People argue for the climate, people argue for the high diesel prices, some cannot pay the bills because of low wages. It would be good to put the show aside, save what we can still save and move on to tackling the real problems. We have already learned a lesson: we need to look at these texts in good time and not intervene at the moment when they are understood. This is perhaps the problem, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, you understood the text very late. You're against soft law, so am I. You are in favour of restoring the sovereignty of nations, so am I. Colleagues of the N-VA, did you understand that there is a second compact about the refugees and that it is on the agenda, according to UNHCR's website, before December 2018? You tweet that you want pushbacks, but do you know that it says that pushbacks are forbidden? Did you know that the text is even more vague than the migration pact? We haven't heard about that. You probably haven't discussed that text yet, but it's probably already at an advanced stage. Well, that's a problem, isn't it? Hopefully that will come up. I hope that Mr Van der Maelen will discuss it in the Committee on External Relations. My group will also be against it. Let's make that very clear. For my final point, Prime Minister, I would like to address you. If you go to Marrakesh, how will you do that? There are two currents in state law. One has, on the one hand, the right to interpret the former Roman. Some people like to refer to that. How did the Romans do? There was the god Janus with the two heads. They want you to go to Marrakesh that way. Only the former Roman law no longer applies. On the other hand, according to our Constitution, you have one cap, namely Prime Minister's hat. If you go to Marrakesh, you'll be the prime minister. That pact will be adopted there, probably by consensus. If you are there, of course, that means that you join the consensus. Either we will vote there and then you will vote there as Prime Minister, unfortunately for me, because I have repeatedly pointed out the dangers of soft law. I think we are making a mistake in approving the pact, but at the same time we are well aware that it is now too late, that it should have been started much earlier. Mr Prime Minister, my question to you is whether you confirm my analysis of the actions and behaviour you are taking in Marrakesh as Prime Minister. As Parliament's position cannot be expressed. Then we must send the President of Parliament, Mr Bracke. It is impossible for you to express Parliament's opinion. You are not the President of Parliament, you are not even a Member of Parliament. You're Prime Minister. If you act, you will act as Prime Minister and the N-VA will have to draw conclusions from that fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what a political circus about a non-binding pact. What a political circus! How is that possible, just today! Today, on Sinterklaas Day, the shoe of about ten thousand children remained empty. That would have been worth a political crisis. Nowadays, there are people who don't even know how to live the month with their pension and there are people who don't know how to pay for their medications. That would have been worth a political crisis. But no, there is a political debate here for three weeks on a United Nations non-binding pact. This is really outrageous, ladies and gentlemen! It's really outrageous! For three weeks, we've been talking about who's going there. The president? The Prime Minister? The Speaker of the House? We don't know. No one's found there anymore. This is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen, and today there is an urgent need! The climate emergency would have resulted in a government crisis. She was worth it. Child poverty, too. Every day, reports indicate that one in five children in Belgium is involved! It would have been worth a political crisis. No, I don't! We're going to debate a pact that's not even binding. That is really lamentable, ladies and gentlemen, particularly on the part of the right-wing parties. Damn it! Let us talk about this pact because it has been a long time since it was the substance of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, you have long since stopped working on the fund of the pact. You've been working for a long time on a divide-and-control policy, a hate policy. As far as the communication campaign you have conducted, no one, but no one, can believe that a party that has such an oiled communication machine, has made such a mistake. Not to us! You don't do it to us! We have to stop making fun of people! That was a clear campaign, with the need to remain outside the government with hate-sowing policies. They do not want to lose them at the N-VA, those posts of EUR 10 000 per month; they remain in the government. So you have a leg in the government to get the money and a leg out of it for racist propaganda. That's outrageous at the N-VA. Then take your responsibility, but don't be hypocritical just to keep the posts. You shouldn't go on like this. Then the pact itself, ladies and gentlemen. The pact isn't perfect. It is the result of multilateral negotiations. But it indicates very important points. The first point is to address the causes of immigration. It is a taboo in this Parliament to want to tackle the causes of immigration. What are these causes? It's war. We have closed our eyes to Yemen for years. We have supported Saudi Arabia for years. We've closed our eyes. Thousands of children are starving in Yemen. The United Nations pact that is being submitted today says that we must take this problem into our own hands. You voted for the wars in Libya. You've approved all of that. I hear the Flemish interest about globalisation and so on, but you voted in favour of the bombings in Libya. Own people first, but when it comes to sending F-16s to other countries, the Flemish Interest naturally votes in favour. All together to intervene in all these countries and to bomb them, that is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, that is obviously a big problem. The Pact also deals with poverty in the world. For the first time in the history of humanity, capitalism has generated a situation where 1% of the population has as much wealth as the other 99% of the population. Do you think this situation is tenable, ladies and gentlemen? This concentration of wealth is untenable. The third point mentioned in this pact concerns climate challenges. These challenges are not being met by this government. Everyone knows that they will generate millions of refugees in the years to come, because people will starve and die of thirst in the countries in which they live. Our countries are primarily responsible for the production of CO2 which creates this problem. The first positive element of this pact is that it tackles the causes. The second positive point is that it defends human rights. This pact does not add rights. It is not a pact for the opening of borders, for open borders. Not at all! This pact recalls the human rights set out in 1948. Perhaps his only merit is to declare that we are all human beings, even if we migrate. That is the political issue which the N-VA presents to the left and right. Are these migrants still human and do they still have human rights? The answer is yes. Can we separate children from their parents? That's what Trump wants to do, but we don't agree. Can we refuse urgent medical assistance to people who come here in an emergency? No, because they're human beings. That is the issue that was decided in 1948 by the United Nations, and that is what you want to attack, dear colleagues of the N-VA. It is this very idea that universal human rights exist. I want proof that, in this pact, 57 times, the words "human rights" are mentioned. In the Secretary of State Franken's policy statement, how many times do the words "human rights" appear? Zero times, colleagues. The problem is there, and that is what the debate is about. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the question we are being asked today, with the support of this pact. I have heard a number of colleagues, whose concerns I share on the potential interpretative note. The exact content of the agreement, which has yet to be negotiated, is not yet known. But I think it's important to give a signal. This pact is certainly not perfect, but it is in any case a beginning to try to resolve in a multilateral or even global way the incredible challenge we face, namely the fact that millions of workers around the world are being exploited. That's the question. That is why we will support this Pact. We'll do it as a step. This is certainly not the final step, but we will do so to give a very clear signal: the world, as it is today, can no longer continue. It's time to fight for a better world today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u110	Mr. President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the third consecutive week, we are again busy discussing the Global Compact on Migration. This motion for a resolution is nothing more than pressure from some colleagues for the Prime Minister to go to Marrakesh to sign this pact. Prime Minister, therefore, priority is always for others and not for our citizens. That's unfortunate. You are forcing us to impose on our citizens your vision of society: a multicultural society. I will quote Nicolas Depaepe, in La Libre d'avant-hier, who wrote on this pact that he favoured multiculturalism rather than integration. That is what is worrying. Of course, you represent 69% of voters, and at the same time you represent only 69% of voters. Nevertheless, I am sure that half of this percentage would not support you in this case, for which you have no legitimacy, since it was not included in the government statement and you did not consult with the citizens on this matter. Prime Minister, dare the referendum on this pact and you will see the result! This is proof of the result of yesterday's RTL-Le Soir barometer, which clearly indicates that this pact does not deserve a political crisis. They therefore consider that refusing to sign this pact is not in itself outrageous. From the top of your ivory tower, you don't realize that citizens are tired of always hearing about immigration or Islam. They have many other concerns, such as their standard of living. The studies on this subject show enough that migration is already far too important, that they no longer feel at home, that the focus of the priorities of elected officials has moved towards people of foreign origin. They feel blurred and abandoned. With regard to the terms of this pact, there are obviously different interpretations of the 23 objectives. You'll tell me "yes, but... the experts said." But these experts, it's your groups that have chosen them. We cannot say that they are therefore entirely objective! I think you'd rather comfort yourself in your position. We're not fools. However, my party acknowledges that this pact does not contain only negative objectives. There are also very bad ones. In its entirety, the Pact is too imprecise and leaves too many measures subject to interpretation. It is not acceptable, nor reasonable, to sign a blank cheque. You insist that it is not binding. So, if it is not binding, why are you insisting that your government's future be undermined? You know it will become binding. Judges and lawyers will use it to justify their pro-migrant decisions. You will yield our sovereignty to the United Nations. And this will be the end of Europe, because Europe is divided on this subject, as on many others. The revolt of European citizens is on the way, and it is not by signing such a pact that you will restore confidence and calm them. One hundred and fifty-two million Europeans refuse this pact. There is a reason, and that reason is to keep his dignity. Even the Bulgarian Parliament, unanimously, including the Socialist Party, has just rejected this pact. I hear that Belgium has always been a host country, that we are among the founders of major European and even global institutions. But at that time, we were also an economic power, which we are no longer today. Integration was done in a natural way, through work. This is no longer the case at present, and we see the results. One objective is to facilitate access to family reunification procedures. You interpret this measure by saying that family reunification can very well be facilitated in the country of origin. You openly laugh at us by saying that. You know very well that you're not going to send the person back to his country, but you're going to bring his family home. The same objective also provides for a reduction in the conditions for grouping, particularly in the knowledge of the language. This is totally suicidal for our society. How do you want to advocate integration while not forcing the person to know one of our two national languages? It's ubiquitous. You keep repeating that this text will not open borders. That's not true! Objective 11 is: "Facilitate the cross-border movement of regular and safe people, while preventing irregular migration." Tell me, when does it get irregular? After examination of the file. That is, when they're already at our house. I quote: "We are committed to implementing border management policies that respect the fundamental rights of all migrants, regardless of their migration status." Here is a demonstration that this text opens borders to uncontrolled immigration. And you keep telling us that this text is balanced! Goal 5 will impoverish the country. I quote: "Facilitating access to family reunification procedures", which is the most important area of immigration. I quote: "Facilitate access to social security and social services." You must feel very bad, Prime Minister, wanting to sign this. You who continue to cut social security budgets for our citizens, whose access to health care has become a luxury, you who, supposedly, defend social security by invoking that it is a cement of our state, you will simply sign the end of our social system because, when the beneficiaries are superior to the contributors, it will be the failure of the system. The terms of this pact make no distinction between legal and illegal migration. It is our Penal Code that will also have to be adjusted and we will be only two fingers away from recognizing the sharia. The Belgian State will be Islamized. I hear the colleagues. Don't tell me that migration is not Islam! In Belgium, 80 per cent of migrants are of Islamic religion. Signing this pact is creating a real air call. It will be the door open to mass immigration. An incentive to come to the Eldorado or the promised land when they will find with us an economic desert and, a few months later, a social Sahara. You are going to tell me that you have engaged in international forums. If you come back to your decision, it would not be the first time you'd come back to your word. You have done so in terms of pensions, for the price of electricity and, most recently, at COP24, in Katowice. Not to mention the famous "Never with the N-VA!" Is your speech worth more on the international level than on the Belgian citizens? In fact, you are giving yourself a good conscience by constantly repeating the words "safe, orderly and regular" when you know - that is the goal of all progressives - that it will cause chaos. Prime Minister, you do not give priority to the real problems of Belgian citizens. You want to participate, in fact, carelessly, in the resolution of international issues. Therefore, we will not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. In the People's Party, we want, through our proposals and by voting against this resolution, to preserve the identity of this country and its values!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u111	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments in this debate. I will only make four of them briefly. First observation. The resolution before us today concerns, as everyone knows, the United Nations Migration Pact. This is an opportunity to say that I welcome this pact and its content. We can, of course, improve the drafting or correct certain formulations, but the option of the pact, the developments of the pact, the chapters of the pact are documents that we agree with. From this point of view, I am in favour. We are not just facing a statement of intent. No, they're principles. These are guidelines. It is also a collection of good practices for safe, orderly and regular immigration. I believe that these substantive issues cannot be overlooked, even though today's meeting has mainly dealt with procedural issues. Second observation. A resolution, ladies and gentlemen, you know what it is. A resolution is a document that intends to express the House's views on a set of societal issues. This resolution should normally end with a set of recommendations addressed to the government. I have read and reread the text of the motion for a resolution which was adopted yesterday evening. I can't find the word "recommendations." I can't find the word "government." I could say like Magritte, "This is not a real resolution." It's not just a writing problem. It is a question of parliamentary work and balance between powers, as they work in our country: the executive, on the one hand, and the legislative, on the other. A third observation is that a House resolution is not a resolution that it makes for itself, for its members, as if, suddenly, it meant "here are my concerns on a particular subject." No! Nor does a House resolution fall within the scope of the legislative function. It is in the exercise of control over the government. An essential function is that our resolution must always have an interlocutor. If she doesn't have an interlocutor, it's a swordshot in the water. So, unlike the Dallemagne resolution, which ended with a set of recommendations addressed to the government, the committee that spoke yesterday concluded its work with a particularly discreet text on this subject. I come to my fourth point. Prime Minister, you will go to Marrakech. You are the spokesman for the government. As others have said, you are not Parliament's spokesman. Parliament's spokesman is our President. This is our office. If necessary, we can go as a group to Marrakech. The Prime Minister is removed from office if he or she believes that he or she should be the voice, spokesperson for parliamentarians, Parliament or the House of Representatives. Prime Minister, you are our interlocutor. You are not our agent, especially if this is an issue that, in essence, is the responsibility of the government. My question, therefore, is quite simple: how will you go to Marrakech? As head of government, as head of the majority, or as an individual who is free from political and institutional ties? As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot fail here to express serious reservations about the orthodoxy of the procedures in which we are invited to participate. I regret these ways of working. I regret the way in which relations between the government and Parliament are established. I regret the instrumentalization that we want to make of our assembly. Mrs. Onkelinx, just a moment. I'm not done. It's the exordium that's always the most important. In view of the subject, given the importance of the Pact, I want to say and repeat that I support the Pact and support the motion for a resolution. The substance here is more important than form and procedure. These are the observations that I wanted to make in a critical way, but also in a constructive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you as Prime Minister and I will speak to you with my convictions as a man because I consider that there are moments in the political commitment where, beyond the games of majority or opposition, we must be able to express for our country a number of convictions, a number of signals and a number of messages. Before I get to this point, I would like to share with you – it is my duty to explain, to tell the truth – the retroacts, the way in Belgium and on the international level, this issue has been dealt with, has been followed by the various departments but also by the government. In 2016, the UN launched an international process aimed at achieving a Pact on Migration. This pact was intended to improve and strengthen international cooperation. As many of you have said, migration is in essence a cross-border issue. No one here, I believe, disputes the importance of being able to work together, at European and international level, to bring us up to this democratic challenge, because it must allow the debate to be held on how to bring about a vision, a project, a response marked by the values that we both believe in. This means that in Belgium, on the basis of the 1994 framework agreement which organises cooperation within our State, we have followed the multilateral procedure. As a result, several meetings were held. Arguments were exchanged. The aim was that, gradually, alongside our European and international partners, our country could make its voice heard in this deliberative process, which led to the conclusion of a text in July 2018. What were the different stages: meetings and finally, on 12 September, a last multilateral coordination meeting - COORMULTI - in which the various ministerial departments and the cabinets concerned are represented. The federated entities were also associated. The truth has its rights. The facts are the facts. On 12 September, it was noted in this process that there was an agreement to validate this pact. On this basis, on behalf of Belgium, I spoke at the United Nations rostrum to express Belgium's support for this Pact for Migration. A few weeks later, in a meeting to coordinate our positions on European matters, it was even decided that Belgium would support the promotion of this pact at European and international level. At the end of October, on 31 October, to be precise, there was a political fact, a political situation, which I am confronted with, which we are faced with. On 31 October, for the first time, I am informed that a party has comments, objections to this document. As a result, on several occasions, within the Kern, and bilaterally, I am aware of some objections to this pact. That is the situation and the facts. I want clarity, it is my duty in relation to Parliament. At the beginning of the sitting, some spoke of this instruction, which was said to have been expressed by Minister Didier Reynders. This instructional decision is automatic and classic, whenever the multilateral body has agreed to a process in which stakeholders have been involved. It is on this basis that this instruction was given. We were therefore faced with a political difficulty at the heart of the matter. I have shared that reality with Parliament. There is indeed a political difficulty. I have spent the last few days and hours as Prime Minister trying to put forward a number of proposals, because I think it is important to send out a clear signal and to communicate the government's clear position. I have therefore tried to make a number of proposals. On Thursday afternoon, on a regular basis, I kept Parliament informed of the progress of the discussions on this subject. I have also been careful to have intensive dialogues on the interpretations of this pact with all European countries, not just with a few countries, because it seemed to me important that the discussion could be conducted. I think it is important to continue in this direction. A few days ago, I made a decision, for which I will also be responsible. For you, I'm defending my decision, too. Parliament, in particular the Chamber, is the House of Democracy. Parliament is the source of legitimacy through the elections. By universal suffrage, this parliamentary forum is the heart that beats democracy. It seemed to me that it was therefore important, even though the initiative had already been taken by several opposition parties, to give this Parliament the capacity to express itself and to examine the substance and scope of this text. I have also noted and followed that this Parliament has made an important choice through the hearings of six or seven experts who have expressed their opinion and who, I think, have played an important role in the quality of democratic debates. That gives everyone the opportunity to form a belief, an opinion on what the text means. That's democracy. There are different views here on the interpretation of this text, as everyone can see. In Voltaire's words, which I repeat, I do not agree with each of the words, but I will always fight for this freedom of expression, which must be upheld both in the majority and in the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the debate that has taken place, in view of a vote that will express Parliament's position, I am Prime Minister and I will go to Marrakech because there will be no empty Belgian seat in Marrakech! Indeed, this international meeting in Marrakech is a step before another, equally important moment, that of voting a resolution at the United Nations. I do not yet have the absolute confirmation of the date of this vote, but we are following the information on this subject. My responsibility is, of course, to be constant and to do everything possible for the credibility of our country. A word is a word. A word is a word. Indeed, in my view, the word of Belgium is of value. But at the same time, as Prime Minister, I also appreciate, at this moment of political gravity, that the Belgian Constitution... Our Belgian Constitution is not a piece of paper either. That means that day after day, in Marrakesh but also in the following days, I will have to look at how it will be possible to defend my position, my conviction, within the Council of Ministers, within the core and in Parliament. At the same time, however, I must ensure that the Constitution is fully respected. I certainly will. Mr Maingain rightly mentioned this: there are instruments, in the Constitution, for Parliament, for the government as well and even for the Prime Minister. I want to be extremely committed to the subject. Everyone knows the point of view I have expressed. Everyone knows that there is currently a political difficulty within a political majority. I don't want to deny it. But I do realize that there are moments in political life when we have to distinguish between the play of a majority, the play of an opposition, and the positioning that must be expressed in order to embody on which side we stand on the ground of European cooperation, of international cooperation. Be convinced that, when the time comes, I will not hesitate to choose which side, as far as I am concerned, I will ensure that I am in compliance with the constitutional rules. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to one final important point. I would also like to make it clear that it is our responsibility to ensure that the majority and opposition are not blind and deaf. Eleven million Belgians have important expectations and priorities in their daily lives. There is no doubt that migration is an important theme and represents an important challenge. We must give clear and strong answers. However, I also note that the purchasing power of the people, mobility and the future of our planet are also important issues. In order for future investments (digital transition, mobility, trade jobs) and for jobs that are not occupied today to be filled tomorrow, social security must be properly financed. There are, of course, differences between us, but there is, and I think deeply, the demand for responsibility. I will choose the side of respect for our institutions. I shall consider, if this vote is taken, that this will be a very strong signal from Parliament representing the citizens of this country. I shall consider that this resolution obliges me, in my personal capacity, in accordance with our institutions and the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u113	Colleagues, are there any lines?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u114	Mr President, we listened very carefully to the Prime Minister. As we announced, before we determined, we wanted to hear it. We said it yesterday in committee and repeated it through the intervention of Mrs Fernandez Fernandez. But not to hide anything, there are still shades. One of these shadow zones is a relatively simple question, whether or not the Prime Minister has just said in the rostrum that he would speak and represent Belgium in Marrakech. I confess that on this point there is even more than a doubt. That is why, Mr President, if you will, I would like to make a formal request to suspend the sitting for a maximum of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u115	If a group asks for a suspension, then it is one of the ways in which we are going to deal with it, but perhaps it is appropriate to do the round of replies first? Do you agree, Mr. Laaouej? So you want an immediate suspension. Ik respect as a tradity parliamentarian. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u116	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u117	I have received a new amendment, No. 13, which asks the federal government to approve the Global Compact for Safe, Motivated and Regular Migration. The amendment asks the government to approve the Global Compact for Migration. This amendment was introduced by Mr Clarinval (principal author) and signed by Ms Fonck, Mr Di Rupo, Mr Laaouej, Mr Verherstraeten, Mr M. Van der Maelen, Mr. Maingain, Mr. Dewael, Ms. Kitir, Mr. Gilkinet, Mr. Calvo. Having said that and in view of this amendment, Amendments Nos 10, 11, and 12 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez et al. were withdrawn. We are taking up the agenda. Mr Laaouej has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what a waste! What a waste of having seen biased parliamentary debates because it did not have a clear and unambiguous position in the head of government and, in particular, in the Prime Minister's! You do not mind me going back to the exchanges that we had yesterday in committee, during which the Socialist Party with DéFI were, in your opinion, isolated, robbing ourselves of details, whereas today it becomes clear – after the mask fell into the head of some members of the majority and in yours, Prime Minister, and I am sorry to tell you this – that this is the position we were defending from the outset, we Socialists, which was the right one. Because we did not believe that it was possible, with you, to reach an agreement on a text that was not right from the outset, was not up to the stakes, a text that was clear about Belgium's commitments on the international stage, in an area as important as migration, where fundamental values related, in particular, to human dignity, to the conception of human rights are involved. That is what has, in essence, the most irritated, the most disappointed. And that is why we conducted this fight, which is now fully justified. However, I am not happy about this. Because, that's all about energy and time lost. There is, however, something serious, Prime Minister. I am telling you because you wanted a frank debate earlier. Let's be frank! We consider that after having damaged your government – because of the way in which you manage relations there, in particular with your partner, the N-VA – its credibility, you have, I regret, tried to manipulate and instrumentalise the parliamentary institution. Today, Parliament will answer you. Because he is aware of the importance of the word given, of the quality of the debates and, above all, of the commitments formalized and made when texts are tabled and at the bottom of which signatures are affixed. Prime Minister, this is where we are: an amendment has been drafted, which could be a copy-paste of what we have tabled ourselves. We've wasted a lot of time, maybe a lot of energy trying to convince you. But most importantly, because of the way you've approached things, I'm not sure that the government you represent is growing up. One thing is clear. Until the end, you have been visibly held by some radical members who, within the N-VA, set the tone; an increasingly swollen N-VA to the helium of the Vlaams Belang and who are trying to impose its agenda. We refuse to do so, Prime Minister. Because we are democrats and we must join on democratic values. That is why my group has decided to co-sign this amendment, which now sets you an obligation to achieve results. And that must be the result of formally approving the United Nations Pact on Migration. Whether it is in Marrakech or New York, to formally approve it, without any form of ambiguity, is the message that we are delivering to you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u119	Mr President, as far as the MR is concerned, the basic text was very clear. However, as I said yesterday and last week in committee, we are seeking the widest possible consensus in Parliament in order to obtain support for the Migration Pact. We heard each other's statements this afternoon. In order to take account of the views expressed and to provide some clarifications which were necessary for certain groups, we therefore propose this amendment, which adds a third request to the other two already made. It is obvious that many groups support the pact. We wanted all these groups to be able to formulate and support it clearly. For this reason we are putting forward this amendment, which seeks to achieve the widest possible consensus around the people who support the pact. Mr President, you read the text of the amendment earlier, and I am not going to read it again. I just wanted to explain the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u120	Prime Minister, I quote: 'My country will sign the Global Migration Pact in Marrakesh in December. This text is a huge step forward." In your reply today, you have honestly admitted that you have a political problem at your core and that one party has turned its cart after a two-year course. You said you were looking for a solution, and you came to Parliament. You said that you would allow Parliament to speak on the matter and that you would defend that position in Marrakesh. Parliament gave its opinion yesterday, Prime Minister. A two-thirds majority is in favour of the migration pact. And yet you have just remained very vague in your answer. As hard as you have tried today to defend democracy, you were so weak in showing that you wanted to support democracy. I am therefore pleased that we have found a solution. You are receiving a second signal, Prime Minister. With that second signal you are asked not only to go to Marrakesh, but also to proclaim the decision taken here in the Chamber by a two-thirds majority. If you take democracy seriously, that is what you will do in Marrakesh. Then you will do so in the name of our country. No more and no less. I regret that you were very unclear in your reply. You say the Constitution is not a piece of paper. But, Prime Minister, Parliament is not a piece of paper. The opposition is not a piece of paper. The people in your majority who support you are not a piece of paper. You're getting a clear signal. We have heard little about the content. All the arguments given were rejected. But apparently they wanted to hear it. There is a clear majority in Parliament which instructs you to sign the Global Pact in Marrakesh and New York. So, Prime Minister, your mission is clear. I hope you don't disappoint us. I hope you will not disappoint Parliament. I hope you do not disappoint the people in your majority. Above all, I hope you will not disappoint our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u121	Mr Prime Minister, during my speech this afternoon I said that I was very much looking forward to your answer. In your answer, you had the perfect opportunity to dot the i, to take our country back on its feet. I am very disappointed to say that you missed that opportunity just now. What could have just been a new beginning for our country, perhaps even a new beginning for the current government, a new beginning for a lot of other societal challenges, which you, unfortunately, have not grasped with both hands. You have asked Parliament for a mandate over the last few days. Colleagues of the majority and opposition have worked hard to do so. It was not obvious to transcend the differences. There are, of course, different views in Parliament on migration and asylum policy. However, colleagues of majority and opposition have made efforts in recent days to get closer together, to try to put an end to the division and ambiguity in our country. You were given that mandate, but unfortunately you did not get to work on it at all this afternoon. That is why, together with other colleagues, we asked for the sitting to be suspended so that we could look at how we should proceed with this. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Prime Minister does not speak very clearly after such a mandate, it seems logical that Parliament should become one hundred and fifty percent clear. That was the deployment of the conversations in the last two hours during the suspension. I think that the amendment before us is an important step forward. Prime Minister, it is a pity it had to come to this. Your majority parties knew that our support was sincere, but not unconditional. Our group has just announced on the floor that an amendment would be tabled to that effect, if your statements were not absolutely clear. The amendment now before us says everything and is one hundred and fifty percent clear on what to do with your government. In particular, it is the words that you did not just say, but which are expressed by Parliament: Belgium will approve the Pact. That is Parliament's question. Colleagues of the N-VA, that means that you really need to think about it over the next 24 hours. Mr De Roover, I would like to ask you to turn off your record at last. Stop taking our country hostage, stop looking for all kinds of often fake arguments to make no progress anyway, not to start with all the other challenges ahead of us. Mr De Roover, you had hoped that Parliament would be divided. You might even have secretly hoped that the suspension would lead to even greater division and even greater chaos. I'm glad we decided together that we will not give Filip Dewinter and Peter De Roover that gift. Let's be clear. What binds the groups signing the amendment is the clarity that we do not allow our country to be held hostage by Peter de Roover and Filip Dewinter. Members of the N-VA and also you, Mr Jambon, as Deputy Prime Minister with metier, you as a Flemish nationalist, who has tried to fill your job seriously in the past, I ask the following. Can you please tell Mr De Roover that people are tired of being laughed at in that way? Can you tell him that people are tired of the fact that the country's largest party is apparently not concerned with purchasing power, with global warming and with making the country run, but with its own electoral gain? Mr Prime Minister, after the vote on this amendment and the text before you, there are no more excuses for you. Our group would like to be part of the coalition that has been created. As a progressive young politician, I am delighted to be able to show here together that we will support the Pact. As a Belgian I would be proud, if our country were to be one hundred and fifty percent clear in that respect. You will now be given a mandate that has not yet been given to many prime ministers. You will be given a mandate of perhaps more than two thirds of Parliament. Mr Prime Minister, all the excuses are now dropped. If you do not know how to redeem the mandate you have received, you cannot actually remain on board as Prime Minister. We will give you the opportunity to redeem the mandate. It is true that the text is being tightened up. However, let that be an encouragement. The previous version was an effort commitment. The current version is a result commitment. Our group sincerely hopes that the result will be positive in the interests of our country and the citizens of our country. Let us adopt the text. I hope that the N-VA will finally discover in the next 24 hours that politics must be done in a serious way. Above all, I hope that in the coming days it becomes clear that our country is on the right side of history.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u122	Prime Minister, we have been in dialogue for three weeks now, on the issue of the Migration Pact, an important text that has been in preparation for the past two years, as you recalled. Our speech did not change. We have asked you to give a clear signal, to sign, to approve this pact more accurately, to do so in a clear and voluntary manner, to place Belgium among the most courageous and visionary states that agree to work multilaterally to solve the problems of this world. I am pleased, on behalf of the Ecolo-Groen Group, that this Parliament has been able – too rare not to be stressed – to play its part and that, during the interruption which has just taken place, it has been possible to go beyond the limits of the majority and the opposition to reach an agreement on this amendment which was signed and presented by Mr Clarinval. Earlier, in the first round of questions, I asked you, Prime Minister, for a commitment as clear as the majority that emerged for the approval of the pact. We have remained, I must tell you, cautious about the answer you gave us, implying that you could go to Marrakech in a personal capacity, even if you are Prime Minister. But we're not half prime minister! That is why we have asked for this amendment which has just been tabled and which explicitly asks the government to adopt the Migration Pact. This amendment is signed by various groups representing a very large majority of this Parliament. You now know what you will have to do after the vote on this amendment. It will be to approve the pact on behalf of our country. As I said earlier in the rostrum, we are, as politicians, facing two major international challenges: migration on the one hand and climate on the other. As far as the Migration Pact is concerned, we will give you the mandate and the means you requested, Tuesday night, in Parliament to move forward. You will now have an obligation of result. You won't be able to get out of your way. Then, of course, we are waiting for you on the issue of climate. It is time for our country to come back to action, look to the future, turn its back on what I hope will be a parenthesis that began in 2014. The best way to close this parenthesis is to adopt this pact and work on the issues of the future with the democrats of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u123	Prime Minister, you spoke earlier as Prime Minister, but also in a personal capacity, without knowing very well what you were doing as Prime Minister or as a citizen. You were surprised to say that you would go and defend your convictions in Marrakech. If we appreciate your personal convictions, your job is to be Prime Minister. A Prime Minister never acts in his personal capacity, according to his convictions. You know that. A Prime Minister acts on behalf of the government. It is not Charles Michel, a Belgian citizen, who will support the pact in Marrakech or New York. It is the Prime Minister who represents Belgium, who speaks on behalf of the government and who also represents the 11 million Belgians. Today in plenary, but yesterday too, in committee, with my colleague Georges Dallemagne, we took on our responsibilities at the CDH, because, in difficult political moments, we refuse to play small political games. We want to win the Democratic side. But let it be clear, the words of this resolution are not enough! We want action. Your government is deeply torn. We've seen him here all day long. Prime Minister, you are therefore faced with a very clear choice: either to respect the vote expressed here by the Democrats or to submit you to the N-VA diktat pushed behind the back by the Belang. It's up to you to choose the Democratic side!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u124	Mr President, the debate we have had here today and the last few days, unlike some of the speakers, I do not think it is a waste of time. It was a good debate. Different points of view were put forward. And the population can see which parties attach any importance to the concept of border. Mr Prime Minister, in reply to your speech, I am pleased that you are making an effort to ensure that the government can indeed continue to work on the many issues that bind the four parties to the government. I hope that we can continue the good work we have done. I'm glad you're inspired by that. Mr Prime Minister, I am also pleased that you said that you are going to follow the rule of law that is appropriate in a particular decision-making process. We naturally support you in that, too. I hear certain colleagues saying that there are still some uncertainties in your speech, but no doubt you will give clearance in the government, the place where the decision is taken in this case. I can only hope that we will proceed as quickly as possible to the order of the day and that we can continue the important work we are doing with the four of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard a Prime Minister who has turned his back in order to save the cabbage and the goat. That's good news. Anyone who thought that after the resolution which was adopted by a large majority yesterday, the Prime Minister would now go towards Marrakesh to consolidate the Marrakesh Pact would be well worth it. The Prime Minister is in doubt, the Prime Minister is hesitant and he seems to put the importance of his government's survival first. As far as Marrakesh is concerned, he is prepared to do so, at least as I interpret it. That is good news, in so far as the N-VA, Mr Jambon, Mr De Roover, colleagues from the N-VA, is not going to fold now. Insofar as the N-VA keeps the leg stiff. Insofar as the N-VA shows spine and character. In so far as the N-VA, with the courage of its conviction, takes the view that the Marrakesh Pact cannot be endorsed by that government, it cannot be approved by that government, either in Marrakesh or in New York. Now it depends on you, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA. If necessary, with the strength of your conviction, you must also be prepared to make the ultimate sacrifice and put your presence in this government on the scale tomorrow at the Council of Ministers, in order to ensure that the Marrakesh Pact is not approved by this government. May I give you some advice? [[There's a "no" ringing.]] Many say that the Flemish interest has meanwhile become the ventriloquist of the N-VA. Listen to what your lower abdomen says. Listen to what the people say. For once, don't listen to what's being said here. There is a wide difference between what lives in the Volksstraat and what lives here in the Wetstraat. There is a heavenly difference between the virtual world, the ivory tower of this Parliament, and the real world of the man in the street. The man in the street supports your and our fight against the Marrakech Pact, who does not want mass immigration. This pact is Troy's horse of globalism, Troy's horse of the open border lobby, Troy's horse of the multiculture that wants to destroy our identity and cultural identity. Therefore, no to Marrakesh. Keep the leg stiff and you'll find us on your way, not as an enemy, but as an ally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, today is Parliament's victory. Today, in short, our institution has made the voice of the rebellion heard, in front of the one who, moreover, never deigns to set foot in this chamber, to the point that he believes that all Belgian institutions are at his feet. Today, if he was able to vassal a government for four and a half years, he would not have been able to vassal our democratic assembly! That is the great victory of today! That's what brings us together. [[Applause]] So, yes, you still have to finish the job, Prime Minister. You have to assume the moral duty entrusted to you by the assembly. Not only must you, of course, ensure that the pact is signed - you no longer have the embarrassment of choice, you have only the obligation, at the end of the resolution as amended - but also, as I said earlier, to ensure that the unity and credibility of our institutions are preserved. If you sign the pact, there will be only one way out for the N-VA: to submit. I don't believe it. Get out of here? I don't believe it. It's revocation. This is the duty that awaits you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u127	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will tell you what I understand from your speech. You're going on a trip, you're going to Marrakesh, you're taking something with you, and apparently you're taking the Constitution. That's all I got, that's all. I have no idea what reading you are reading of the Constitution. You have deliberately or unconsciously quoted here I suspect unconsciously one of your predecessors. It stood here forty years ago, on 11 October 1978, and it also said 'The Constitution is not a piece of paper', but he added 'and I leave this gallery and I go to the King and I offer the resignation of my government'. What a difference with you, you say: 'The Constitution is not a piece of paper', but you do not draw any conclusions from it. I ask myself one question. I have looked at politics in a different capacity for a long time, and I know your predecessors. Is it really true that someone who steps into the 16 is willing to suffer all the humiliations to stay there anyway? I'm sorry. I am very sorry about what is happening here in Parliament today. There are two things that don't matter. Mr Calvo and Mr Gilkinet say that it is a result obligation. No, Mr Maingain was right: 'un devoir moral'. That is a huge difference, Mr Calvo. That resolution doesn't matter. The government is doing what it wants because external relations are an exclusive competence of the government. So that's not gonna do us any good, that's not gonna do us any good. The second group, with Flemish Interest and the N-VA, says you can't go to Marrakesh. So they still haven't understood: whether the Prime Minister is going to Marrakesh, whatever he's doing there, whether he's staying here, whether the government falls, or the resolution is being approved, that United Nations migration pact is coming and will also be used by judges as soft law. The crazy thing about this spectacle in Parliament is that it is the only rational act that can still be done...For it is debris, it is now too late; one should have intervened earlier for the migration pact. The only rational act that can still be made, namely the adoption of an explanation of vote, I am well aware that this is only a straw, but sometimes it is necessary to stick to it, and only two Members of the European Parliament are proposing it at 150. They're still in rationality, the rest of them seem to be somewhere else. I wonder what the people think about the fact that, at a time when thousands of people have argued for the climate and there is a real anger in the yellow hoops, a piece is being staged here, a ghost game, which is purely about political power, about the preservation of posts and the preparation of elections. That is the only thing that is at issue. It's not about people's concerns, not at all. It's not about migration. If that were the case, we would be talking about that explanation of vote and we would try to produce the best possible explanation of vote, but that is not what we want. Prime Minister, give us some clarity. Do you actually have another government? For once, force those parties to take a stand. You just quoted Leo Tindemans. One of your other predecessors, Wilfried Martens, faced a similar situation in 1991. He then provoked a vote in the Council of Ministers. It is unusual to vote in the Council of Ministers; in Belgium anyway, because in other countries like Israel it is. However, it is not prohibited. At that time, however, that made it clear. It's put an end to that ghost play. I therefore urge you to clarify tomorrow in the Council of Ministers whether you still have a government or not. It's one or the other, there's no middle ground. I believe that the people have a right to know that. You will not have to complain when anti-politics achieve a great victory in May 2019. You and your government, with the four parties, will have contributed to that. If you're asking for my judgment, your government has fallen. You'll only fall deeper in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u128	Prime Minister, the game will continue! Finally, we thought we would have a clear answer to Parliament today. This is where we were going to decide, but, in fact, no! You came to tell us that the little game was going to continue and we still don't have a clear answer from you. How long will this show last? Do you realize what people say outside this Parliament? This game has been going on for three weeks! You've only been thinking about who will have the stinking valet for three weeks! You've been blackballing for three weeks. Hours of discussion and debates to solve one question: who has the black man? How dare you take three weeks away from democracy, just to solve that question? Chop that knot, tomorrow at the Council of Ministers, whoever gets the black guy, but don't go hijacking us for three weeks to solve that problem. We don't care who's got the stinking valet! We're not interested. We want to see you decide. How long are you going to continue? Prime Minister, we have learned a great deal about the institutional reality of Belgium. I would also like to thank the colleagues who have come to shed some light on this. Each time, so-called great democratic arguments were used to, in fact, roll us around. It's the worst! When we heard that the Prime Minister was calling on Parliament to vote, people thought that it was good, that Parliament was democratic. But in fact, it was to avoid having to go on behalf of the government. You could fool everyone by going on behalf of Parliament. Fortunately, analysts have said that something that seems very democratic is not, in fact, at all. The Prime Minister is trying both to keep his government and to go to Marrakech. Then you call the Constitution. Everyone thinks that the Constitution is democratic. That's great! After that, we realize that you are actually calling on the Constitution to be able to justify the lack of consensus in the government. That's really bullshit! You are playing with the rules of our democracy to justify your political choice not to decide. You did the same thing on Sunday with the climate protest. There were 75,000 people on the street. Sunday you said, "I heard the signal, I'm with you all." On Tuesday, two days later, you asked that we vote at European level against the climate directives. That's amazing! This "yes, but no" has only one purpose. There is one point on which you both agree, that is the preservation of power. Keep power! Maintain the government! You fully agree on this. We have heard here, for the past four years, that the PTB encourages populism; that we are the cause and that people are disgusted. Today, things are very clear: if there is a party that has contributed to disgust people over the last three weeks, it is the N-VA. People think the game you're playing here today is degout. Here's what I'm gonna introduce you to. The Council of Ministers will take place tomorrow. Cut the knot tomorrow. Yes or no! Can the Belgian Government support the pact? That's a simple question. It would be a disgrace, ladies and gentlemen, if tomorrow at the Council of Ministers that item is not the first item on the agenda. If that were the case, I think the anger would be terrible at the level of the population. You have to decide. We need an answer tomorrow at 2:00 p.m. People are tired of you taking care of something other than their concerns: purchasing power, climate, pension... Take care of this and stop attacking them, as you have been doing for four years. Personally, I won't cry if your government falls. I'm telling you. A large part of the population wishes only that. Continuing for three weeks this kind of lamentable debate feeds, at the level of the population, a real disgust that we will channel so as to move forward constructively and positively. Prime Minister, you are responsible for the disgust of the population. I hope you heard the message.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u129	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u130	Writing, recitals and requests/Intitulé, considérants et demandes • 9 – Filip Dewinter cs (3385/7) Demand (s) / Request (s) • 13 – David Clarinval cs (3385/7) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u131	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will now take place. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u132	Vote on Amendment No 9 by Filip Dewinter cs on the title, recitals and requests. (3385/7) Vote on amendment No 9 by Filip Dewinter cs to the title, recitals and requests. (3385/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Yes No. 139 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 from David Clarinval cs to insert a request (n). (3385/7) Vote on Amendment No 13 by David Clarinval cs to insert a request (n). (3385/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 106 Yes No. 36 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u133	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 107 Yes No. 36 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution as amended. It will be notified to the government. (3385/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution as amended. This will be made known to the government. (3385/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u134	Colleagues, there is confusion about the oral questions. So my proposal is that I be informed about the ones that are being maintained. We'll know what we're up to. We must also bear in mind that we certainly have one vote to take, because that is EUR 165 million, which we risk losing if we do not adopt today. We have also accepted the urgency for this. That's why I suggest we suspend for ten minutes. I cannot organize the oral questions if I do not know which questions are retained.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u135	Mr President, of course we will answer you about the oral questions. As you know, a bill No. 3275 on hospital networks is on the agenda. Debates have taken place in committee, in particular on the way in which you, Madam Minister, have sank the agreement reached in the Interministerial Conference through an amendment by the majority. As much as I remain in favour of the distribution of the twenty-five local and regional hospital networks between the Regions and Communities, as much – as you know – I have some doubts as to the conformity of this amendment with Articles 10, 11 and 128 of the Constitution. I had already expressed this in committee. For this reason, I had proposed to send the amendments to the Council of State. This was not possible, because the majority rejected this request. On the basis of Article 2 of the coordinated laws on the Council of State and Rule 98 of our Rules of Procedure, I ask you, Mr President, to send these amendments to the Council of State for its opinion. The various opposition parties support this approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u136	I assume that the support of the parties mentioned by Mrs Fonck is there and that we therefore have the draft No. Take 3275 off our agenda. I will ask the Council of State for an opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-12-06-54-plenair-ip258x.u137	The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 6 December 2018 at 9.30 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday 6 December 2018 at 9.30 p.m.
