ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u1	Madam President, Minister, in July we read in the press, both in De Morgen and in La Libre Belgique, that the Flemish Institute of Biotechnology has been carrying out a field trial of genetically modified maize in the greatest secrecy for a year and a half. The plants have been adapted with a new, uplifting technique, a method for which there is no clear European legislation yet. The European Commission asked the Member States to be cautious about licensing trials with these not yet regulated technologies. However, according to the mentioned media, the federal government agreed. The method used is considered a breakthrough in biology. It is a molecular craft set that allows researchers to cut and paste in the DNA of plants, animals and human embryos cheaply, easily and at will. According to a number of scientists, the enormous potential of this DNA hacking is a major threat. The method offers the potential to effectively combat many hereditary and other diseases, but it can also create species that never existed or wipe out entire populations, putting biodiversity at risk. You understand that we are concerned about this. Scientists and environmental organisations are eagerly looking forward to a judgment to be published by the European Court of Justice. Madam Secretary, what is your opinion and this of the federal government? There are several ministers responsible for this matter? Can you explain why that test field was launched in an atmosphere of secrecy? Was there indeed a licence granted to the VIB? Why was the judgment of the European Court of Justice on the new cultivation techniques not awaited, as requested by the European Commission to the Member States? What are the biosecurity measures to be observed by the VIB? Were the Flemish and Walloon Minister of Environment consulted? If so, what was their advice? Are you considering a re-evaluation of the licence for this field trial, given the ruling of the European Court of Justice? Can you guarantee that any results of the test will not be taken over by Bayer/Monsanto, for example? Can I have access to the file with which the VIB applied for the licence, in the response of the competent FPS and in the scientific advice that led to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u2	Minister, I will not recall the context. It is true that the Belgian Government considered, since it was a mutagenesis, that there was no need to comply with GMO legislation. However, between the time we tabled our question and today, the Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled. It is now considered that what is obtained by mutagenesis must be subject to GMO legislation. In this respect, I would like to reinforce the intervention of my colleague, Mr Dedry. It would have been interesting to wait for this European positioning before letting it happen. Indeed, these practices have been developing for some time. Minister, I am also asking the Minister of Health and the Minister of Agriculture. The connivance between the federal government, the Flemish government and powerful agrochemical firms, without public, scientific, independent, ethical and citizen control, is worrying. The participation of related Flemish universities in the development of biotechnology with Bayer and the Flemish government is also not without creating a conflict of interest. Independent bodies and the Biosecurity Advisory Board should have been incorporated before such practices could be authorized. As Minister of the Environment, you are the guarantor of respect for biodiversity. In this case, there are biodiversity risks. What evidence or guarantees can be given that there is no trace of the external contribution of a foreign gene to the DNA of the plant produced and that the plant obtained will actually be the same as that obtained naturally? Why this confidentiality while the trials are taking place in the field? How is it that citizens and stakeholders in biodiversity conservation have not been informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u3	Madam Chair, Member, the trial field to which you refer concerns a modified corn using a methodology called CRISPR (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats). Following a request from the Vlaams Instituut voor Biotechnology (VIB) received in June 2016, the Public Health FPS, on the basis of the scientific opinion of Sciensano and after consultation with the offices of the Federal Ministers of Public Health, Agriculture and the Environment – you are right to question everyone – found that this technique was not covered by the scope of Directive 2001/18. In practice, this implied that the provisions of the Royal Decree of 21 February 2005 regulating the deliberate release into the environment and the placing on the market of genetically modified organisms or products containing them, which transposes this Directive into Belgian law, should not be applied, including the consultation of the Biosafety Council. This field trial was therefore not conducted in secret. In June 2015, the European Commission announced that it would provide a legal analysis on this issue of new technologies by the end of 2015 to Member States and stakeholders. To the best of my knowledge, this analysis has never been published. This inability to take decisions at European Commission level has prompted Member States to apply the provisions of Directive 2001/18 according to their own interpretation. For example, Germany, the United Kingdom, Finland, Sweden and the Netherlands have all positioned themselves in the same direction as Belgium on this issue. The FPS Public Health made this decision on the basis of the scientific advice of Sciensano and after consultation with the FFSCA, the offices of the Federal Ministers of Public Health, Agriculture and the Environment. Following the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 25 July 2005, the maize concerned must now be regarded as a GMO subject to the provisions of the Royal Decree of 21 February 2005. Therefore, as has always been the case for field trials falling within the scope of GMO legislation, the competent authority distributes the documents to the public on its website, which I can provide you with the address, if you wish. It should be noted that the Vlaams Instituut voor Biotechnology was able to start a field trial with the maize concerned without following the procedures laid down in the Royal Decree of 21 February 2005. From the time it was considered that the trial fell outside the scope of the Royal Decree of 2005, the role of the administration was not to advertise around it. There is no legal obligation to do so. More details on this file were provided in my answer to Ms Dedry's question 26652, which dealt with the same subject. In the letter sent to the Vlaams Instituut in November 2016, it is specified that the exemption from the application of the Royal Decree of 2005 is valid only provided that the developed plants no longer contain any trace of exogenous DNA used in the intermediate stage. In addition, it states that the analysis is specific to the case presented and therefore does not necessarily apply to other plants developed with the same CRISPR system. Conventional biotechnology has the means to verify the absence of foreign DNA and the compliance of the plant obtained, inter alia, through PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) analyses and sequencing. The administration of the region concerned was consulted. It considered that it was not competent to decide on the scope of the Royal Decree of 21 February 2005. The letter sent to VIB in November 2016 specified that the interpretation developed could be modified in the light of changes in legislation or subsequent readings made by the European Commission or the Court of Justice of the European Union. In this case, we are clearly, following the judgment of the latter – given on 25 July – in the situation described by my intervention. Indeed, this judgment implies that, contrary to the interpretation of November 2016, the maize concerned must be regarded as a GMO subject to the provisions of the Royal Decree of 21 February 2005. For this reason, the Public Health FPS has taken direct action on the ongoing field trial, including its closure, obstacles to pollen dissemination, the establishment of a register of actions undertaken in the context of the trial, and the training of the personnel in charge. During its last inspection, conducted on 10 August, the FPS Public Health inspection service was able to verify on-site that the arrangements made were indeed complied with. In addition, all documents to be submitted to the Public Health FPS, in accordance with the procedure described in the Royal Decree of 2005, were requested as soon as possible at the VIB. As is already the case for the other field trials – therefore, in nature – which fall under GMO legislation, the administration will be responsible for disseminating the documents to the public on its website. The trial is conducted for research and development purposes. The only direct results will possibly consist of scientific reports and/or publications. It is up to the institution concerned to decide how they will subsequently be valued. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u4	Madam Minister, at the beginning of your comprehensive reply I got the impression that you are actually applying the letter of the law, but not the spirit of it. I understand, however, that a number of measures have been taken, as your reply has been requested. I can only continue to express our concern about biodiversity, the spirit of the law and the strict application of the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u5	Minister, I would like to add to your answer that what has just happened really reminds us that this precautionary principle ensured biodiversity and compliance with the rules. Controlling what we are doing as experiments really requires time to analyze and follow procedures. Uncertainties remain, including the presence of external genes and initial genes introduced through this new technology. Is there also a long-term follow-up by Sciensano and our authorities to check what happens in this plant when it is mature, adult? Is it the same as a natural plant or do genetic characteristics remain different?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u6	I'll ask the question and I'll come back to you. Since this is a scientific question, I must obviously consult the authorized persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u7	Thank you. In any case, we will also question Minister Ducrame and Minister De Block. I assume that in the meantime they will also be able to bring in additional elements of response.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u8	Madam President, Minister, where are we in the development of the 2030 National Energy-Climate Plan (NECP 2030)? Unless I was wrong, each entity had to forward its contribution to CONCERE by July 15. Has that been the case? Could you give us a copy of the federal contribution? The one you have full responsibility for? What does the federal contribution say in terms of "carbon pricing", as a follow-up to the national debate that the Federal Climate Change Service initiated and led. I find that there is a very positive assessment of this whole operation which has taken time but which shows a real work in depth. In the federal contribution, do you echo this "carbon tariff"? What is the status of integrating the various contributions into a single NECS? What is the schedule of work on this point? He said that you had met with European Commissioner Canete on this matter. What were the terms of your exchange? Why should he be consulted at this stage of the procedure when the PNEC had not yet been adopted in intrabelge? What is the status of the distribution of efforts for the period 2021-2030? It is known that the working group report was presented at the time of the CNC at the December 6, 2017 meeting. Where have we been since then? What is the schedule of work on this point too?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u9	Madam President, honourable Member, I see that you are in good shape and always in good shape!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u10	Allant verse...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u11	Absolutely! In accordance with the decisions taken in the context of the CONCERE Group and the National Climate Commission, the three Regions and the Federal State submitted in mid-July 2018 their contribution to the National Energy-Climate Plan 2021-2030, the property named PNEC. The Council of Ministers on 20 July took note of the draft federal contribution of the PNEC, on the understanding that the impacts of the measures contained therein will be examined at the next presentation of this project. I will gladly transmit the document as it stands. I have asked the Federal Office of the Plan to conduct an impact assessment on the following six measures: - the development of offshore wind; - an increase in the share dedicated to fuels; - investments in public transport; - issuance of green bonds; - the increase in interconnections; - additional investment in research and development. I asked the Bureau to focus on offshore wind development and biofuels as a matter of priority. In accordance with the Energy Pact and the Federal Energy Strategy, the issue of carbon pricing in the non-ETS sectors (Emission Trading System) is well mentioned in the draft federal contribution, as you will read. It is consistent with the polluter pays principle and should be an element of energy policy that is widely supported by stakeholders. In terms of timing, the Energy and Climate Authorities will enhance the federal contribution by adding the impact assessment of the Federal Office of the Plan, of course, and by analysing the requests made by the Regions to federal authorities in their own plans. A new version of the federal contribution to the CSFN will be prepared by mid-October. At the same time, work is under way to consolidate the federal, Brussels, Walloon and two Flemish energy-climate plans into an integrated national plan. My collaborator tells me that it is indeed the choice that has been made within the framework of the joint CONCERE and CNC steering group. A first draft will be submitted in early October to the CONCERE Group and the CNC, which will make their comments in order to reach a revised draft by 1 November, with a view to finalising it in the course of November. This should allow the formal adoption of the PNEC draft by the four governments before the deadline of 31 December 2018, as requested by the Commission. In the meantime, the steering group and the thematic subgroups identify possible inconsistencies, as well as possible synergies and measures for which political guidance would be needed. A consultation with neighbouring countries was also organised in the context of Benelux, and by extension in the context of the Pentalateral Energy Forum on 27 June 2018, under the Belgian Presidency. This has led to dialogue with our neighbours, with a view to optimal regional cooperation on climate and energy, which has proved to be a central element and which is required by the "governance" regulation. We must therefore cooperate with neighbouring countries. The first project of the integrated Belgian PNEC will be communicated to neighbouring countries in October to identify possible synergies. In the context of North Sea cooperation, there is also an initiative between the member countries to incorporate a common paragraph into their respective plans - and in our own, of course. In the course of 2019, the government will ensure that the PNEC is finalized in close cooperation with the Regions, in the light of the recommendations made by the European Commission on the draft plan and the comments from the public survey and the civil society consultation, which will be organised at the beginning of the year. Particular attention will be paid to the coherence of the proposed measures and the strong integration of federal and regional measures in order to maximize synergies. The final plan will have to be finalised and transmitted, as you know, by 31 December at the latest to the European Commission. Commissioner Cañete's visit to the various countries on 4 September is part of the Commissioner's tour of Europe on energy and climate issues. Each Member State must, of course, take the measure, when it meets Commissioner Cañete, of the exact progress it is in. In this context, I can tell you that the meeting was very fruitful, since – and this is not a vain word – the Commissioner congratulated us on the holding of the national carbon pricing debate and encouraged us to continue the cooperation between the Federal and the Regions, as initiated in the Energy Pact. The Commissioner then stressed the importance of developing also a Belgian strategy by 2050 and encouraged Belgium to show ambition in the use of renewable energy sources by mentioning the target of 25% by 2030. This in an ambition sheet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u12	Twenty-five percent?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u13	Twenty-five per cent: in reality it's more, but since it's for Europe as a whole, it's 25 per cent for Belgium. These are the calculations we can explain to you and to which we can return with the technicians. With regard to the objectives to be achieved for Belgium in 2030, the Commission also stresses the need to make the modelling exercises under way in the three regions and at federal level coherent. I would add that the Commissioner has also congratulated us on our very high level of interconnection, which will be even more so by 2030. With regard to the state of affairs of burden sharing 2021-2030, I am afraid that I have no new information to share with you since your parliamentary question in March of this year, and I regret that. The members of the CNC took note of the report of the joint CNC-CONCERE working group burden sharing 2030 and agreed to use it as a basis for initiating the necessary political discussions. To date, the Flemish presidency of the CNC has not taken the initiative to organise meetings on this subject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive aspect of your answer. Thank you also for sending me this document: I am delighted to read it, especially since, as you say, there is an echo in the document of all the work that has been done on the price of carbon. The European Commissioner congratulated you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u15	He congratulated Belgium, it's not me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u16	Don't be modest. However, at the turn of your answer, I note that at the federal level there was no agreement: it is just an act of action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u17	Oh, yes, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u18	This is very significant, I believe, of the subsequent problems that you may have. We know how this is going, I will not link up with the news of these days on other issues, I will remain focused on it: I have other questions that follow. I personally fear that this action reflects the fact that you are advancing alone at this stage. Perhaps you can reassure me of this element? Otherwise, you may go far, but in the end you will have to reverse a series of things. I have noted the six points on which you are requesting evaluations from the Planning Office. That makes sense to me. I will also follow this closely. Where I am more worried, but I have the impression that it is like you, it is on the other part of my question: on the distribution of efforts 2021-2030, where you deplore the status quo, it does not advance. I can only join you on this. I wonder to what extent you should not possibly refer this matter to the Consultation Committee if it continues to block your interdepartmental conference. It's obviously up to you, but not to be too far from the agenda... The last point concerns the famous 25% who surprised me a little, on renewables for Belgium. Is this a new calculation following the increase in the objectives of the European trialogue or is it before the trialogue? So are these 25% the result on the initial basis or on the corrected basis after the trialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u19	It's after the trialogue, actually.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u20	On the corrected basis after the trialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u21	It surprises me a little, but I'll take the time to look at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u22	That is, of course, indicative.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u23	You mean it's not binding?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u24	It's never binding. This has been agreed at European level. There is a European objective which has increased from 27 to 32, but each Member State develops its own objectives according to an agreed formula. At the Belgian level, we also have estimates. In particular, the Federal Planning Office has prepared estimates ranging from 19 to 20.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u25	Rather than 25?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u26	Yes. This is an estimate by the Commission; it estimates, given the above average Belgian GDP, that an additional effort could be made. There you go. But here, we reversed the original logic. That is to say, we agree on a European objective raised to 32. And each Member State must define its own objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u27	And so at the Belgian level, you consider that the transposition of this 32 is about 19-20.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u28	I had already said that in a previous speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u29	Yes, I'm trying to recapitulate. And therefore, Europe considers that it would rather be 25.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u30	It's to be analyzed...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u31	That's what I'm saying. I will come back to this gap later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u32	Yes. And when you ask the question about that, I'll ask for the technicians who do this kind of calculation to come and explain it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u33	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u34	Madam Minister, here too we are on a file that I have been asking you about for a long time. First, on January 6, 2016. I was returning to the charge on 29 September 2016 and 4 October 2017. Each time, you told me that the mechanism had still not entered its operational phase. I asked you again on February 27, 2018. You told me that discussions were under way in an intercabinets group and that you were confident that the climate accountability mechanism could be made operational in the coming months. It was February. I returned to the charge on 13 June but nothing had actually advanced. You know me. Today I wish to re-do the topo with you, as the end of the legislature points the tip of its nose and Tournai seems to attract you more and more. What is the position of each entity within this working group? For when can we hope for the implementation of the mechanism imposed by a 2014 law – do I have to remind you? – but still not operational? Did you, as suggested at the time, bring the item to the agenda of the work of the Conciliation Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u35	Madam President, honourable Member, the implementation of the climate accountability mechanism, in accordance with the special law and the ordinary law which lay down the modalities for its implementation, requires a number of steps to be taken. Among these, an essential step before any transaction, the payment of a bonus to the Regions or the withdrawal of the malus on the endowment of the Regions, consists of the validation of the gap between the annual greenhouse gas emissions in each Region for the building sector and the target set by the multiannual trajectories set out in the law. These are super complex calculations you know. These deviations must be noted by royal decree on the proposal of the National Climate Commission (CNC). The Commission took note of the 2015 building sector emissions data from regional greenhouse gas inventories at its meeting on 6 December 2017. This surprised me from the beginning, but there is always a fairly considerable delay due to the complexity of the calculations and the fact that all the results really need to be aggregated according to methods that are no less complex. However, it did not approve the deviations from the trajectories because some members of the CNC wanted to discuss in advance how the law should be applied and the possibility of a revision of the trajectories pre- and post-2020, in particular with a view to taking into account methodological changes made after the passage of the law. The members of the CNC decided that this discussion between the four entities would be conducted through inter-cabinet consultation. At the last plenary meeting on 21 February 2018, the report of which is available on the CNC website, it was decided that the Flemish Presidency would take the initiative on this subject after a further consultation of the other entities. We must note that we have not been asked so far. As I indicated to you in my answer to your question No 25961 on 7 June, the federal level currently contributing has no preferred solution compared to the blocking points and is waiting for an agreement between the entities. Having said that, we have already talked about the concertation committee, but the press often asks me what the solution could be, as if the federal government was responsible for all the evils, while it has made several advances – I am thinking in particular of renewable energies. At the institutional level, we could serve as a pilot, but that does not mean that we are seeking leadership. The important thing is that someone fills the role of "runner" and takes the initiative. I know it's complicated because of the rotating presidency. Logically, the one who exercises it must be able to give an impulse. When we were in this position, that's what we did with burden sharing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u36	Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer, although I very much regret the situation. The law in question was passed in 2014 following the reform of the state, to which we had contributed. We had a lot to do with it. However, this part of the package has not yet entered into force. Of course, with the rotating presidency, we can identify the origin of the blockage. That said, the case has been stagnating for four years now. Admit that responsibility is, at the very least, shared. I am going to inaugurate a great moment in the parliamentary annals by saying that I quite agree with your consideration that it is necessary to overcome structurally this blockage, therefore beyond the present dossier. I'm going a step further than you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u37	You're going a step further than I am.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u38	I'll give you the freedom to speak. As far as I am concerned, with regard to shared competences such as the climate, in view of European obligations and control in this area, I believe that an intelligent mechanism of hierarchy of competences should be introduced into Belgian law. I'll explain. The federal government, which is responsible in the eyes of Europe for a blockage and a possible absence of initiative, must, after a certain period – let's say three to six months, depending on the files – impose itself as a "runner"... Was that your expression?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u39	It's a word I invented, which means "to be in the lead of the race, to give an impulse so that the band goes fast."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u40	That's where I'm going a step further. In the event of a blockage and failure, within this period of three or six months, to unblock things through the current procedures, in particular the Consultation Committee or the Interministerial Conference, the hierarchy of standards must prevail. And the federal government, which is the only one responsible in the eyes of Europe, should, at that time, take the option itself, knowing that its own composition also reflects the whole country, since the parties that are members of the governments and parliaments of the entities are also represented in the federal government. This is a perspective for other places and times. But, for once I could join you, Madam Minister, I did not hesitate to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u41	That's right! For once! In my opinion, the next question will be a little less well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u42	You're not anticipating, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u43	Enjoy the present moments! Let us move forward point by point in our exchanges.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u44	Madam President, Madam Minister, during our exchanges on 13 June, you announced to us the organisation of a "Talanoa dialogue" on the climate objectives that Belgium could support at this Benelux meeting. You also confirmed that this appointment was important to you, because it had to program a firm, definitive and formal position. I've read the transcript again. When I ask you whether this will be a firm, definitive and formal position, you say, "Absolutely," and complete you: "I would even tell you that I trust such a platform. I feel like we're in the real world. These three countries have a working habit of more than sixty years. For me, this is a very important step." It is the verbatim of the works. The services are doing their job wonderfully. Madam Minister, with this in mind, I ask you the question. What happened to this "Talanoa dialogue"? What was the agenda for this meeting? These are the questions that I have tabled in the allotted time so that you can have time to answer. But this morning, like every day, I read the press. And the press is doing its job. The newspaper Le Soir, in particular, but also De Morgen, on the front page, tell us what was played around the "final" statement - if I can still call it, in view of its content, of this "Talanoa dialogue". I am very shocked by the lack of concrete results and the enormous distance with the statement and intentions that you put in committee three months ago. Madam Minister, why has no call for a revision of the objectives of the European Union been included in the final report, the Benelux Agreement, when 14 countries are already asking for it? Why does Belgium block Benelux and make it incapable of making this appeal, yet absolutely necessary in view of the climate objectives and the non-compliance with the Paris objectives? I would like to stress this question, because you are aware that with colleagues, including Mr Senesael, we have fought hard in the framework of the Inter-Parliamentary Committee on Climate. We have obtained an agreement from all the parliaments and parties that have participated in this interparliamentary committee, including the parties of your majority, on points that I believe are important, if not essential. This agreement sets an ambition or, at the very least, a direction, and even aims to reduce greenhouse gases by 95% by 2050. The agreement also says that it is necessary to be more ambitious than the 40% planned for 2030 and that a series of short-term measures must be taken, thus strengthening the 2030 European targets. All this is reflected in the resolution adopted by all the components of this interparliamentary dialogue. I therefore do not understand why this could not be replicated as requested by the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Your political weight must nevertheless allow you to translate into a text at the level of government what we have been able to obtain, as an opposition, at the level of Parliament with the agreement of everyone! I no longer understand the contradiction between the weakness of the text and the few elements contained in this resolution adopted at the level of the various committees. So explain to me what got stuck and why Belgium is again so ridiculous about the Netherlands and Luxembourg. You yourself said that this was an important meeting that could trigger things within Belgium itself. I think that the work that has been done in Parliament with Mr Senesael and others has also made it possible to disintegrate things, but here it was expected to be reproduced. I understand that the NGOs are ulcerated, especially since they were involved in the dialogue yesterday; they waited for you but you were represented; only the Luxembourg Minister arrived. You were managing another file, but I find that a pity; it is an important content. I read, with the pen of well-informed journalists, that even your own officials denounced the retrograde positions Belgium has defended. I'll wait for your reply, but if this is confirmed, it's very serious in relation to climate issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u45	Mr President, I was not here and I sent my colleague here who is very familiar with the file. I had also learned that the Dutch minister could not be present because he was detained in The Hague. Only Luxembourg Minister Dieschbourg was finally present at the meeting. This Talanoa dialogue therefore took place on 24 September at the Embassy of the Netherlands in front of about 100 people who participated actively and whose commitment I welcome. They first listened carefully to the inspiring ideas presented by the experts in chat rooms. On this basis, they have drawn up, in small groups, concrete proposals for innovative actions to strengthen climate policy in the Benelux countries. Addressing four main themes: energy efficiency, transport, finance and just transition. This agenda was inspired by the concept of the Talanoa dialogue launched, as you know, by Fiji when it chaired COP23. The aim is to share constructive and innovative ideas in a climate of trust within a broad panel of stakeholders. These proposals were then presented to the Benelux Ministers, or their representatives, during the afternoon and they had the opportunity to react to them. The day ended with a ministerial statement to be completed in the coming weeks with a more elaborate statement. That's what appears at the bottom of the statement, which I can give you as a copy and which I have here. This declaration will be officially submitted as the contribution of the Benelux countries to the official process of the international Talanoa launched last year and will be officially published on the website of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. The ideas formulated during this day will be analysed and refined in the coming months by a steering committee, which will ensure implementation within the Benelux countries or at national level. This statement covers a series of issues related to the implementation of the Paris Agreement. I will list some of them, which you know: the need to decarbonise our economy in order to implement the Paris Agreement objectives, the role of the IPCC special report on 1.5°C to be published shortly, the need for all parties to review the level of ambition of their determined national contributions, the European Union's global leadership, the European Commission's proposal for a long-term strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the intention to cooperate at Benelux level on national long-term strategies, the need for a fair contribution from the transport sector to ambition, the need to adjust financial flows to the objectives of low-emission development. Furthermore, the statement recalls that the low-carbon transition must take into account the imperatives of a just transition in the broader context of sustainable development, respect for the rights of all and stakeholder participation. The intention is to strengthen cooperation within Benelux on the issues of decarbonisation. Ministers or their representatives have therefore committed themselves to follow up and implement the proposals that emerged from this dialogue. They will therefore finalize in the coming weeks the official declaration to be published on the website of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change. As a follow-up, I pass the floor to my collaborator, to whom I have asked – as a matter of urgency – to replace myself in the course of this meeting, which he has done advantageously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u46	I would add that the debate was very interesting. It was structured around the three themes mentioned by the Minister, namely energy efficiency, transport, finance and transition. A lot of innovative ideas have emerged. This is a process of confidence-building dialogue. This applies equally to Benelux. With respect to the PNEC, the Minister has already responded that consultations on this matter have already been launched on June 27, 2018. We have always favoured this way of working, that is, dialogue. Of course, for some ideas, we sometimes have to give ourselves time to achieve convergences between each other's positions. It must be acknowledged that the project was submitted to us on Thursday by the CCPE Group on greenhouse gases. The time allowed to draw up a Belgian position was already a little limited. But if you read carefully the decision that was adopted yesterday, it still gives a perspective, a clear indication. We're already working on it. I think we'll have time to fine-tune the Belgian position. It is hoped that a result will be achieved before COP24. I would also point out that, for burden sharing, it took eight years to achieve a goal. This is a process. We must not stop at a sequence. Time has to be left in time. The minister has always favoured this issue at Benelux level. It was thanks to it that sustainability was placed as a cross-cutting theme in our Benelux presidency this year. Already in 2015, during the Presidency, she launched a lot of initiatives in this area. Ongoing consultation within the Benelux. I recalled this in relation to the event held on June 27 as part of the PNEC. Let us hope to achieve a result by COP24. For us, the glass is half full!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u47	Mr Nollet, I give you the floor for a short reply. I would remind you that we are dealing with oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u48	I'm sorry to have to contradict you frontally, but we don't have time. The planet has no time! Like me, you have heard the speech of the Secretary-General of the United Nations on 10 September 2018. We don't have that time anymore! He gave the whole world two full years. It's not a "glass" speech, whether they're half full or half empty. This is the speech of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. We're coming out of a canicule summer. We've never had so much climate change. Look again at the recent storms that have occurred in the United States. But we're told here that we didn't have time. The text as you flew over it but which I was able to discover on the internet this morning, since it was published an hour ago, excuse me to say it but it pours out platitudes to give it the vertigo! The text we have adopted in Parliament is, in my view, quite precise, quite clear and quite useful in this area. I can only invite you to use it for the rest. The N-VA, to quote it, voted for this text. And in part, she even wrote it in compromises. So, rely on what Parliament has done! At least that'll be it already. At least we'll have 95 per cent by 2050. There's no turning back on that. I have not quite understood a small point of what you have said, sir, in relation to the timetable. You say it's because the text of a group arrived on Thursday. Which group is this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u49	The CCPE, the greenhouse gas group. It's a group of experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u50	Is this an internal group within your administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u51	It is an internal group of experts at the federal and regional levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u52	Is that an internal CNC group?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u53	No, the CCPE is a forum for coordination between the federal government and the Regions on environmental and climate issues. There is a subgroup dealing with the issue of greenhouse gases.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u54	So those who say in De Morgen this morning: "The Federal has sent us the text too late" say wrong since you say that the Regions were associated. Is it an inter-federal group that submitted its text too late on Thursday?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u55	It's a group of experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u56	Experts who are not mandated by the various ministers. Scientists.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u57	The text arrived too late on Thursday, 20 September, to be analysed. I didn't read De Morgen. They felt that it was insufficient to analyse it. The document from the experts needed to be endorsed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u58	The Netherlands and Luxembourg have been able to organise themselves, but we, of course, Belgium, are once again out of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u59	Mr Nollet, from the moment you have several actors, the federal, the regions, a lot of experts, that is the very meaning of our model. You say yourself that you have to work in a climate of trust and put everyone around the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u60	I believe that this is quite a step away from the climate emergency. We don't have that time anymore! I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u61	I understand the idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u62	The climate emergency must be taken into account, Minister. Use the resolutions adopted by all parliaments to convince your Belgian colleagues and your Benelux neighbours!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u63	Madam President, we are coming out of the intrabelge to see how this progresses at European level. Minister, an informal Council of Energy Ministers was held in Linz on 17 September. Who represented Belgium there? What was the agenda? Has the climate, a theme dear to me, been addressed? At the European Council, what is the status of the discussions on this subject, with a view to COP24 coming very close?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u64	Madam President, Member of the European Parliament, Belgium was represented by Mr Bart Tommelein, Flemish Minister for Energy. Prior to the informal Council, a high-level conference on energy was held on the theme "Loading for change: Innovative technologies for energy-intensive industries". At the informal Energy Council, a free debate took place on the role of innovation in the energy transition, which focused in particular on green hydrogen, storage technologies and the role of the energy intensive industry. Open points in the negotiations on the Clean Energy for all Europeans package were also discussed, focusing on the internal energy market, the directive and the electricity regulation. On a proposal from the Austrian Presidency, in order to underline the importance of sustainable hydrogen technologies, a declaration entitled "Hydrogen Initiative" was signed by 23 Member States and nearly 70 companies and interest groups. Belgium has also signed this declaration because of the importance it attaches to this new technology, which can play a major role in the long-term energy transition. I do a parenthesis by stating that it does not happen a week without receiving either a report or a company that wants to embark on this technology. During Belgium's intervention, the importance of hydrogen in the energy transition was stressed, given the complementarity with other technologies and efficient deployment in terms of cost. With regard to the Clean Energy Package, Belgium's specific concerns regarding the market design were explained: - a request to assess the adequacy of balanced and complementary production at national, regional and European level; - a clear and uniform framework for CRMs with emission standards that do not create a lock-in effect endangering the energy transition; - details of the articles on supply areas and cross-border capacity allocation, so that this infrastructure can be made available to the market as far as possible. In this context, the Austrian Presidency stressed its ambition to close the various issues by COP24, in order to also provide a clear framework for starting negotiations. In response to your last question, here is a brief overview of the preparations for COP24. At the recent negotiating session in Bangkok on the rules for the entry into force of the Paris Agreement, significant progress was made in a constructive atmosphere. However, the challenge for COP24 remains particularly important, given the size of the negotiating text – nearly 300 pages – and because of the fundamental differences in the scope of several instruments and processes and the practical implementation of the differentiation of countries' commitments according to their capacity. The preparation of COP24 takes place in the Council's Environment Sector. On 14 September, the ambassadors of the Member States had lunch with Mr Kurtyka, the President of COP24. On that occasion, Belgium stressed the need to behave constructively with developing countries, the central role of the IPCC special report – expected shortly – and the importance of the declaration on a just transition, to be signed by the Heads of Government at the beginning of the Conference. The formal negotiating mandate for COP24 will be adopted at the Environment Council on 9 October in the form of conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to conclude our morning exchanges – as far as I am concerned, because my colleague Senesael still has to ask his questions – by issuing an appeal. The date of 9 October is the day after the publication of the IPCC report. I hope that the federal government will then be at the meeting and that what we have experienced in the last few days with the absence of a successful outcome of the strong text around the Talanoa Dialogue can be corrected by then. Indeed, it is important that at this meeting you are able to follow the line of several European countries. Our country, which has been at the forefront for a long time, is now at the back of the peloton, in the company of the most backward countries. So I set you up for a date after 9 October so that we can take stock. I know you're busy with other deadlines, but federal politics continues. We will then check whether you have been up to date and if you have been able to straighten the bar a little bit, in view of the fundamental and global challenge of combating climate change. As such, it is important for everyone to engage personally, collectively and politically.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u66	Madam President, Minister, we all remember that in 2015, the slaughter in Zimbabwe of the majestic Lion Cecil by a rich American dentist had deeply shocked many citizens around the world. This detestable event was widely covered by the media at the time. For those who are sensitive to the animal cause and to the preservation of biodiversity, it is difficult to conceive of many amateurs who want to hunt large animals on the African continent. But that's the case. The CITES database shows that dozens of hunting trophies are repatriated to the European Union every year. Madam Minister, I think it is necessary to combat the hunting of protected species in Africa by simply prohibiting the import of hunting trophies into the European Union and Belgium in particular. I would like to know your position on this and encourage you to take initiatives to stop these destructive practices of global biodiversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u67	Madam President, honourable Member, the European Union has strict criteria that must be met before it can import a hunting trophy. First, the country of origin must, in all cases, issue a CITES export permit. This permit may only be issued if the country has carried out the necessary checks to verify whether the export does not harm the population of the species concerned and is therefore a sustainably managed species. In addition, the European Union applies a stricter policy than the provisions of the CITES Convention at international level, namely that for the import of all species listed in Annex A – those with the highest level of protection – and of six specific species listed in Annex B, namely the southern white rhinoceros (populations of South Africa and Swaziland), hippopotamus, African elephant (populations of South Africa, Botswana, Namibia and Zimbabwe), argali, African lion and polar bear, a CITES import permit must also be issued by the importing Member State. This gives the possibility to intervene more strictly if it is considered from a scientific point of view that the import would not be sustainable. The European Union can react quickly if there is evidence that the wild population would not support hunting. It is recognized worldwide (see, inter alia, notes by the International Union for Conservation of Nature) that well-managed hunting contributes positively to the conservation of species and to the participation and subsistence of local communities that play a crucial role in the protection of species. Like you, I understand the position of people who care about the well-being of animals and love them. A properly managed system of hunting trophies contributes, according to the rules in force, to the protection of the species, which goes beyond individual animal welfare. I am convinced that my administration and the European scientific authority support sustainable trade at the scientific level, while intervening if necessary. I'm opening a parenthesis, Madam President. We have already discussed this when, I remember, Mrs Ségolène Royal had indicated that she wanted a ban on the marketing – even according to CITES – of elephant defences. It is the same emotional spring, motivating this clear position. This has nothing to do with the issue of sustainable hunting, but with the issue of ivory trafficking, which, according to some, would increase if CITES were not allowed to regulate part of it. All these questions remain raised and feed on apparently antagonistic positions, although it should be borne in mind that those who defend a more reasoned view and others a more emotional approach share the same goal. In the current state of the problem, that is the only answer I can give you. I would not be credible if I let my heart speak, saying, "It is no longer a question of engaging in such activities." Indeed, many people think, in a rational and scientific way, that this can contribute to the sustainability of the species in its biotope.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answer. For my part, I'm going to let my heart speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u69	You're right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u70	I do not have credible arguments that allow me to argue that, because this is in CITES, the management of the case will be different, as there will be some margin in terms of trophy. You mentioned Ségolène Royal's position, which I share. It is difficult for many people to understand this way of doing things.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u71	This is indeed a great dilemma.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u72	Madam Chair, Minister, most whale species remain at risk at this time. Indeed, despite the ban on commercial whaling since 1986, the ban continues in some countries, such as Norway, Japan and Iceland. According to WWF, more than 1,000 whales have been killed annually since the moratorium was put in place. Toxic chemicals, collisions with boats, by-catch in fishing nets, noise pollution and global warming pose other serious risks to whales. The conference of the International Whaling Commission was held from 10 to 14 September 2018 in Brazil. The international community discussed further measures to protect whales. Minister, what are the results of this conference? What positions have Belgium taken? According to Greenpeace, Japan has captured more than 10,000 whales in the past 20 years. Officially, Japan justifies these catches as having scientific purposes. Japan thus escapes the international moratorium on commercial hunting. But, in reality, it is a matter of feeding the Japanese market with whale meat. Was Japan's attitude mentioned at the conference? Have any measures been taken to put an end to this hypocrisy? Finally, many voices have been demanding the creation of a whale sanctuary in the southern Atlantic Ocean for years. This proposal was not accepted at the Florianopolis Conference. Which countries opposed it? Why?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u73	Madam President, Mr Senesael, this is another very sensitive issue. At the conference of the International Whaling Commission, held from 10 to 14 September 2018 in Florianopolis, Brazil, new measures were taken to protect whales. Japan's proposal to resume commercial hunting was rejected. Quotas for whale meat consumption in Alaska, Greenland, Siberia and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines will be maintained over the next six years to allow these areas to better program the food needs of their indigenous population. The Florianopolis Declaration stresses the importance of better protecting cetaceans, whales and dolphins and renews the ban on commercial hunting in force since 1986. The statement also notes the usefulness of scientific methods that lead to the death of cetaceans. Another important issue on the agenda is noise pollution. A resolution was adopted calling for the application of the precautionary principle for nuisances of human origin and of the marine population, given their negative impact on cetaceans. The resolution calls on Member States to work with industry to protect these animals. Other resolutions have also been adopted on driftnets and the role of whales and cetaceans in the functioning of our ecosystems. In addition, a process for institutional reform and governance of the CBI has been established. Another important result is the launch of the Whale Watching Handbook. As soon as the manual is on-line, everyone will be able to check in which areas of whales can be observed and learn about their main characteristics. The purpose of this guide is to facilitate the observation and knowledge of whales and dolphins. Belgium, as in previous years, supported proposals for the conservation and non-lethal use of cetaceans. On the other hand, Belgium distinguished itself with the presidency of the Bycatch Mitiation Initiative. An ambitious programme of work was approved to address the problem of by-catch. Each year, more than 300,000 dolphins and whales die trapped in fishing nets. The important role of the Belgian Commissioner in advancing this work was recognised both by the CBI Member States in plenary and by some 40 NGOs who signed a letter expressing their positive appreciation. In order to support the implementation of this programme, I am in the process of checking the possibility of granting a subsidy of EUR 20 000 before the end of this year. Secondly, during the conference, there were several opportunities to discuss Japan's attitude. The most important is the adoption of the Florianopolis Declaration, which explicitly mentions the "uselessness of scientific methods that lead to the death of cetaceans" and reconfirms the importance of the moratorium on whale hunting. The conference agenda also included a special permits item. During the previous conference, a working group had been set up to evaluate the research programmes under special permits on the basis of the conclusions of the Scientific Committee and the panel of experts. Based on the report of this working group, the Commission made non-binding recommendations on Japan's special permit programmes, and stressed the importance of the work of this group in assessing the scientific justification for lethal sampling. So there's progress, even if it's slow. Despite several attempts in previous years (an inescapable research plan approved by both the CBI Scientific Committee and the Scientific Council of the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals, and several high-level approaches in Brazil with the cooperation of the European Union), the project has been established to create a sanctuary for whales in the southern Atlantic Ocean. This project has still not obtained the necessary three-quarters majority. Thirty-nine countries, including all the countries of the European Union that are members of the Convention, voted in favour of establishing this sanctuary. Twenty-five countries voted against, among others, Iceland, Norway, Russia, Japan and several African and Caribbean countries. These countries initially opposed each other for geopolitical reasons, although several countries claimed to have scientific objections. The project for the establishment of this sanctuary will be presented again in 2020 in Portoroz, Slovenia, where Belgium will continue to support it. Believe me, when I have the opportunity to meet with the recalcitrant countries as part of my energy or other activities, I will not fail to point out that this negative vote seems disastrous to me and that they have to migrate or change their way of thinking in relation to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u74	Minister, I just want to thank you and congratulate you on your investment in the preservation of these cetaceans.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-25-54-commissie-ic964x.u75	We will close our work. If it is possible to have the ministerial statement of the Talanoa dialogue, it will be placed on the commission's intranet site as it will be referred to in your answer to Mr. Nollet in the climate dimensions.
