ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u1	Mr Minister, I tabled this question shortly before the entry into force of this famous European regulation on the protection of personal data, which caused a lot of ink to flow. I probably know a little more than when I asked that question, but it still seems essential to me. Indeed, we hear a lot about this, and I consider that many cases present legal uncertainty. Soon, in October of this year, the communal elections will be held. Political parties may have the lists of electors who live in the municipality or constituency in which they are interested. With regard to the European rules on the protection of personal data, what about the limitations on the use of these lists during an election campaign?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u2	Mrs Jadin, on the communal elections, I would remind you that, in accordance with the special law of 13 July 2001 transferring various powers to the Regions and the Communities, the Regions are autonomously responsible for the regulation and organisation of communal elections, including the rules governing the electoral lists for this communal election. It should also be noted that the lists of electors are in fact data from the population registers, the management of which is entirely the responsibility of the communes. Within the meaning of the European Regulation on the protection of personal data, municipalities are responsible for the processing of population registers and hence electoral lists. The European Regulation on the protection of personal data states that "any processing of personal data must be based on a legal basis." With regard to elections under federal jurisdiction, electoral legislation provides for the possibility of transmitting to political parties and candidates certain data on the lists of electors upon their request. This legal basis therefore allows those responsible for the processing of electoral lists, i.e. the municipalities, to transmit this data to political parties and candidates who request it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u3	Thank you very much, Minister. That is already a clear answer! I had a sub-question about the use and sharing of some of the data from the lists of electors, but perhaps I should ask that question specifically at another time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u4	Mr Van Hecke is currently in another sitting, Mr Demon has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u5	I learned from the media that according to the College of Attorney General, the use of a taser as a police weapon would be illegal. Until recently, tasers in Belgium could only be used by the special units of the federal police and by the local police of Antwerp and Bruges. Their special assistance team was only allowed to use the taser in prison with a rebellious inmate. Last year, you indicated your intention to extend the use of this weapon to the local police zones. The training of the master trainers to learn how to handle this weapon was already carried out last year. These master trainers could then train trainers in the other areas involved in this pilot project. Once the trainers are trained, they can then start the training of end-users in their respective zones. I have a few questions about that. In response to an oral question, you said last year that the training for trainers would start in spring 2018. Have these courses started yet? Have areas started training for end-users? Is there a record of recognition for these training courses? A risk analysis shall be carried out for each new active substance. Did this happen before the taser? If so, what were the conclusions? What studies have you been based on to integrate this weapon into the local areas in Belgium? Do you intend to have further studies carried out in relation to the Belgian context? Who is liable if the use of the taser leads to an accident or death? It is unclear whether or not there is a legal framework governing the use of this weapon. Can you indicate whether there is a legal framework and if you will amend it so that everything is okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u6	Mr President, Mr Demon, as regards your first question, I can confirm that this is the case. Training of trainers in the 15 areas involved in the project has taken place. As far as your second question is concerned, most of the areas concerned have started the training of end-users. In some areas, all end-users were already trained. The recognition files of training courses for trainers and end-users have been prepared, validated by the Strategic Platform Violence Control and consulted with trade unions. The dossiers shall have the approval numbers 5044 and 5045 respectively. I shall then come to your fourth question. In order to be able to rely on this particular weaponry, a serious risk analysis had to be carried out. This analysis covers many aspects and is at three levels. The first level is that of the police organisation in general, with a priority analysis carried out by the Federal Police Office for Prevention and Protection at Work. In addition, a risk analysis was carried out at the level of the Standing Commission for Local Police as part of the pilot project on the use of tasers by local police. Moreover, a risk analysis should also be carried out for each work post per type of police mission for which the use of this weapon is permitted. The implementation of the risk analyses and the taking of the necessary measures are, of course, also the responsibility of each employer, each local police area in question. In addition, an evaluation can be carried out per police officer involved through medical supervision and the occupational physician. I can tell you that the caution that must be taken into account in the use of a power surge weapon has been strongly emphasised and investigated. The general analysis shows, inter alia, that: Risks may arise from premature use of the taser by a user who does not have sufficient specialist knowledge and skills, or who would thereby compensate for a lack of psychosocial or physical fitness. In order to avoid these risks, it is therefore necessary to systematically ensure that potential users have the correct profile, have been trained for the purpose of continuing training, and that each use of the taser is reported and analysed. The assignments for which and the circumstances in which the taser may be used shall be clearly defined and preceded by a clear briefing. The analysis of the risks also shows the importance of continuing training and further training in first aid at the same time. I come to your fifth question. Several specialists and working groups of the anti-violence group of the National Police College, special units and prevention advisors have studied the issue in depth in recent years. To this end, they attended certain conferences and analysed the most relevant literature in this field. I can refer to the scientific study presented at the symposium on Pathophysiological Aspects of Electroshock Weapons, which took place in Salzburg in December 2016, and on which we were able to respond. Apart from the evaluation planned under this pilot project, there is currently no indication that additional studies should be carried out. For information and in addition, on 1 June 2018, the final evaluation of the Dutch pilot project Stroomsbutweem was handed over to the Dutch parliament. The stun gun appears to be of added value to the police. The weapon reduces injuries to both policemen and those against whom the weapon is used, but there are also a number of points of interest. These are the most important conclusions after the pilot project of a year in which policemen from four teams tested the power surge weapon in practice. To your sixth question on liability if the use of the power surge weapon leads to an accident or death, I can answer the following. I would remind you, as I pointed out in the areas concerned, that all persons affected by a power surge must be systematically followed by a doctor who will draw up an official report on the injuries caused or not by the use of this weapon, even if at first sight this person shows no signs of injury. The civil liability of police officers and their employer is dealt with in Article 47 and further from the law on police service. Thus, as the case may be, the State, the municipality or the multi-municipality zone is liable for the damage caused by the staff in the functions in which they used it. The members of staff who cause damage must compensate them only if they commit an intentional error, a serious error or a minor error which is common to them. The grounds for exclusion are laid down in the Criminal Code, namely the grounds for justification and the grounds for insanity. Your seventh question was perhaps the most important question. I would like to go back to the College of Attorneys General's analysis of the use of the stun gun as an individual or collective weapon. The analysis of the federal police's legal department is about the use as special armament. There are three categories: individual weapons, collective weapons and special weapons. This pilot project talks about special weapons. Following a clarification of the question before the College of Attorneys General, the College of Attorneys General issued a second opinion, in accordance with the advice of the Federal Police Legal Service. They have said that there is a legal order when it comes to special arms. On the basis of the second opinion of the College of Attorney General and the Federal Police Legal Service, I see no reason to stop the pilot project. There is therefore a legal and regulatory framework in place, even if it does not specifically cover the power surge weapon. The use of this weapon is primarily governed by the legal basis for the use of non-lethal police weapons and, more generally, the use of force. I refer here to Articles 3 and 37 of the law on police officers. Whatever mission is carried out, the stun gun may only be used in accordance with Article 37 of the Police Office Act, which provides that any use of violence must be subsidiary, reasonable and proportionate to the legitimate objective pursued. The power surge weapon is considered to be a special weapon, as defined in the Royal Decree of 3 June 2007 on the armament of the integrated police, structured at two levels. Its use is therefore subject to strict conditions. The taser can only be used as part of special missions which I have to determine as minister and the police officers concerned must undergo special training and obtain a licence before they are allowed to use the weapon. At present, therefore, there is nothing to suggest that this legal framework should be adapted. If we were to decide later, but I cannot imagine, to turn it into an individual weapon that every policeman must have, we would come within a different regulatory framework. If we decide that it would be a collective weapon, which I cannot imagine, then there would also be a different regulatory framework for this. As far as the regulatory framework for special armaments is concerned, we are fully in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u7	Mr President, Minister, just to clarify. Those special weapons can be used by any zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u8	The circumstances must be special, not the zone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u9	So you can do it anywhere. You spoke of a Dutch study, can you give us those points of interest in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u10	Minister, the Act of 19 July 2012 amending the Act of 10 August 2001 establishing a Fund for the financing of the international role and of the office of capital of Brussels, lays down the provisions according to which the levy of an envelope of EUR 25 million is allocated annually among the beneficiary services and institutions. In a nutshell, the aim is for the institutions and services concerned to raise the number of agents within them who received a linguistic bonus in the past year, the amount paid for this bonus and the titles giving them access. Until 2014, good year wrong year, between 17,888 and 20 million euros were paid to the local authorities to honour the federal commitments to them. However, since 2015, it appears that these amounts are no longer paid by your services to the local authorities. Why? It is clear from various information that you are contesting the way in which the local authorities award the premiums, the accuracy of the amounts declared or even the beneficiaries themselves! The template provided for returns to be submitted as of March 1, 2018 also included requests for the work arrangements of the agents receiving the bonus, their date of birth, etc. Minister, I think it is important, in a federal state like ours, that the various entities show loyalty to each other. It would, of course, be unbearable for one or the other to use the State's resources for Community purposes or to refuse to honour its financial commitments to other entities, thus putting them in a difficult budgetary position. I would like to know how the conditions for the release of the amounts for the benefit of the local authorities meet the requirements of the Law of 19 July 2012? Furthermore, it is up to me that you do not wish, in this case, to undo Selor's monopoly on the certification of language patents. Do you confirm this position? Can you tell me how this position would be affected by the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 5 October 2017 annulling Article 2 of the Law of 21 April 2016 on the use of languages in administrative matters?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u11	Mrs Lalieux, as you rightly point out, it is important that the various entities of the country show loyalty to each other. On this subject, we agree! It therefore seems to me logical that if the law prescribes a refund of the premiums for officials who have obtained a Selor certificate, the entity submitting the refund application will only do so for officials who have obtained a Selor certificate. Do you find it surprising that I question this loyalty when I see that these applications are made for people of 78 and 79 years of age? I know we want people to work longer, but in this case these ages are exaggerated. You can't ask so many of these people. And this is for several people who seem to have the same national registry number and for people who do not have a Selor certificate. And the list is still long. I would like to reiterate once again that refunds of premiums will be made as soon as possible if the information received is accurate. With regard to your questions about Selor, the government is currently examining the possibilities of the Constitutional Court ruling on the Selor monopoly. For me, other paths would allow more flexibility and better guarantees. It seems to me that we need to move this issue forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u12	I thank the minister. I understand that there may be incorrect data - the example of the 78 and 79 years old - from the national registry numbers of people who have not obtained Selor's certificate, I agree. But at the same time, I would be surprised if it was for 20 million euros. There may be one or the other local authority that transmits incorrect data, but I imagine that does not concern thousands of people who would be entitled to these bonuses. Therefore, I do not understand why, apart from the mistakes mentioned, your administration does not pay the rest. What I am asking you here is to know how the premium is to be applied. The aim is to give a clear message to the local authorities. If you pack everything up because there are about ten mistakes, that is not the case, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u13	I have already sent many letters to local authorities in order to define the information we need. If this is correct, we will pay the amount. A budget is provided for this. But the least we can do is to provide us with the correct and accurate list. I'm applying the law, no more than the law. Maybe the law could be changed, but that's another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u14	I will again question the local authorities to discuss the issue with them. In relation to Selor, I mean that you are rather prepared to open up, of course with a check on the language examination, to stop Selor's monopoly as requested by the Institutional Court. I'll probably come back to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 25818 by Mrs Monica De Coninck 25828 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u16	Minister, I was attentive to the answers you gave to the bill being debated on the issue of recruiting volunteer firefighters. I was able to see in my region, not only in my relief zone but also in neighbouring areas, that it was unfortunately becoming increasingly difficult to make the function of a volunteer firefighter sufficiently attractive. One of the reasons often mentioned, in addition to the problem of translations, is the length of the journey to follow the courses. Candidates must complete between 200 and 300 hours of training in Seraing. It is sometimes difficult to combine these trips with their work. I've been looking a little bit at how we might be able to take advantage of the evolution of technology to improve the situation. In particular, I had the opportunity to discuss with the mayor of Montreux, who is also the head of a rescue zone. He told me he was facing the same problems as us. Voluntary engagement is no longer what it used to be, for a variety of reasons. For example, the average duration of a voluntary engagement for our firefighters would be only ten to fifteen years. The idea I'd like to submit to you is the following. It would be a question of launching online training that would allow volunteer firefighters, as is already the case in some of our universities, to take distance courses at their best pace. They could then take the theoretical exams. We could also think about scheduling for physical skills upgrades, as is done for army reservists, obviously in consultation with the employers' sector. Minister, my question is very simple: could this idea be dug out? Could this possibly be interesting? Needless to say, I think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u17	Ma'am, I'd say yes. But because we're making too much money, I'm going to expand on my answer. First, my services contacted neighbouring countries to analyze what they had done in online training for firefighters. I'm not gonna reinvent the hot water. The possibilities for setting up an e-learning system, the advantages and disadvantages of such a system are currently being analysed. We're on this path. In addition, a working group has been set up to study concretely the introduction of an e-learning system in the training of Belgian firefighters. I will inform you of the proposals of this working group. We'll do it. We are not there yet, but the idea is already being considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u18	Minister, this is an excellent thing. It goes without saying that it is not necessary to reinvent powder or hot water, but the elements of comparative law, as I mentioned at the beginning of my question, are obviously sources of inspiration. I would also like to tell you, Minister, that it would probably be very important and welcome to join your working group, if you wish, the Federation of Volunteer Firefighters, which can certainly also contribute and perhaps support the practical side of some ideas. I hope that this idea will go its way because, especially in rural areas, like mine, it is essential for our communes to be able, in the future, to rely on voluntary firefighters, if only for communal money. I really hope that we will be able to preserve this attraction in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u19	Mr President, with the agreement of Mr Flahaux and Mr. As Van Hecke is not here, I would have liked to continue with my question No 25963 on the safety of prostitutes. I don't have the question, but I can put it in memory. I know the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u20	Mr Minister, you are speaking after the recent events in a neighbourhood in Brussels, where, unfortunately, we have seen extreme violence against a prostitute. According to articles in the press, this is certainly not an isolated case. The testimonies showed the insecurity in which these prostitutes are found, especially those who work independently. The question arises as to how we can legislate, but also what safety measures are in place around these hot neighbourhoods to ensure the safety of sex workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u21	Mrs Jadin, I confirm that I am aware of the current worrying situation experienced by prostitutes in the North neighbourhood, both in terms of sexual exploitation and the insecurity they feel. However, it is the local police area BruNo (Schaerbeek, Evere and Saint-Josse-ten-Noode) which is competent in this matter and which will eventually take the necessary measures at the level of public security in this district of prostitution, under the direction of the local administrative authorities of Saint-Josse-ten-Noode and Schaerbeek. I would therefore refer you to this police area for further information on possible protection measures and planned initiatives. However, I can inform you that on the judicial level and under the direction of the TEH magistrate (T for trafficking, E for exploitation, H for human) of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, the exploitation of prostitutes in the TEH is monitored by the local police and the federal police. For its part, the PJF Brussels has regular contacts with prostitutes in this area during checks in the context of the fight against trafficking in human beings and more specifically sexual exploitation. Also recently, a large-scale dossier of the Brussels PJF led to the dismantling and judgment, where severe convictions were handed down against an organisation, which exploited prostitutes of African origin. In this case, the main suspect was sentenced to 14 years' imprisonment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have, in fact, heard about this case and the effectiveness of our internal and police services in curbing the criminal exploitation of human trafficking in certain networks in our capital. I would also like to thank you for the information provided on the various facts which I mentioned but which I consider to be very important. Here too, the way in which we operate and organize ourselves can also be an aid, because we know that it is a phenomenon, alas, that exists in several large cities in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u23	Minister, the attacks of 22 March 2016 have highlighted dysfunctions within the integrated police force, both federal and local, as well as flaws in communications between the federal police and local police. The press revealed that a confidential note entitled "Strategic Challenges 2017-2021 in the Federal Judicial Police" claimed, among other things, that the bosses of the country's fourteen PJFs had complained of a mechanistic bureaucracy, incompatible with the functioning of a specialized judicial police. It is also learned that the independent union has spoken of the ruin of the current system. Its central offices dedicated to the fight against crime are in fact staff deficit. They are expected to employ 292 people, but only 214 are on duty, 12 of whom are secondees. Almost a third of the workforce is missing. It is also stated that the Central Office for Combating Organized Economic and Financial Crime (OCDFO) should consist of 54 investigators, with only 16. The Central Office for the Suppression of Corruption, composed theoretically of 66 persons, currently employs only 42. The anti-trafficking service for works of art has been dismantled despite Interpol's requests to continue to combat the financing of terrorism. And let's not even talk about the drastic cuts in technical and scientific police laboratories or the leaks of FCCU personnel, which have been the subject of many questions from my colleagues. In addition to the fact that it results in a loss of specialization, the distribution of specialized investigators to the deconcentrated units of the federal police does not fail to suggest a move towards regionalization of the police. Minister, what vision do you have for the federal central services police? What future do you envisage for the judicial pillar of the federal police? Will local police finally get more support from the federal integrated police? What commitments are planned for the coming months in view of the dire situation facing central services?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u24	Mr President, Mr Frédéric, an evaluation of the functioning of the Federal Police is currently being carried out by the Federal Council of Police, in accordance with Article 45 of the Act of 26 March 2014 on measures to optimize the police services. Once this evaluation has been finalized, it will be compared with the recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee Attentats in order to take the necessary decisions. It is therefore premature to issue an opinion on the future of the central services, on the judicial pillar or on the support of the federal police to the local police. As you know, I always work methodically: we do the evaluation, we compare it with the recommendations and then we make the necessary decisions. The commitments for the coming months within the central services are shown in the table that I can send you by attaching it to the report. He mentioned the places open for the central directorates of the judicial pillar for the second round of mobility 2018. A total of 69 posts are available, 26 of which are included in the INI budget and 23 from IDP appropriations. It is not the opening of more places that will strengthen our central services. These places will also have to be occupied quickly and by the right people. This is why a study was initiated some time ago to examine in detail the overall human resources processes of the federal police. This study identified several areas for improvement. In collaboration with the services concerned, we are currently working on the possibilities of translating these points of improvement into a concrete action plan. This approach allows us not only to understand the current problem, but also to arm ourselves to make integrated police structurally flexible and resilient in the future. As you said, there are empty places in the organization chart, but it is not necessarily a budgetary issue; it may be impossible to fill vacant posts. My evaluation has shown that our recruitment service is not performing well enough. We are busy reorganizing this service because everything begins with the recruitment and training of police officers. There are indeed gaps, but their budgetary framework is foreseen. We need to further improve the way we recruit, a task that is currently under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answer, which shows that you are aware of the shortcomings of your services, which are important and have an impact on everyday life. As we have seen in this committee of inquiry, this lack of personnel, physically present, leads to a lack of exchange of information and delay. You recognize that expertise at the service level is important, recruitment of staff is necessary. I would be happy to have this table that provides for how we will address these shortcomings. We will have to give guidelines on the current evaluation and comparison with the recommendations of the committee of inquiry. If you do not have this question, you will be asked in the meetings of the committee to follow up on the attacks. The assessment and comparison of this is interesting, but at some point it is also interesting to land. I will be extremely attentive to this, either here or in the follow-up committee meetings where I also sit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u26	Minister, the southern part of our country has about 450 kilometres of waterways open to navigation, which are essential to good economic development. The control and monitoring of these spaces is carried out by the Federal Department of the Directorate of the Police of Navigation. Only 32 of its 377 officers are assigned to the southern part of the country's waterways. Minister, how do you explain this distribution of forces within management? How many checks are carried out per year on these southern lanes? Of these, how many lead to verbalization or even seizure of the building? Finally, how is the coordination between the land police and this river police going?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u27	Mr Flahaux, the Directorate of the Navigation Police consists of various services distributed as follows: a service on the coast, in Ghent, in Antwerp, in the south; a technical support team in Zeebruges, a maritime information hub in Zeebruges. These services operate under the authority of a Directorate which operates in Brussels. The services of the coast, Ghent and Antwerp are historically the result of the merger of 1999 between the services of the maritime police (former Ministry of Mobility and Transport) and the former port brigades of the gendarmerie. The latter were responsible for operations in the land parts of seaports. The Southern Service was established in 2003 following the publication of the Act of 3 May 1999 on the division of powers following the integration of the maritime police, the aviation police and the railway police into the Federal Police. As a result of the 2001 reform of the police services, the northern police services have, in addition to the specialized police missions mandated by the 1999 Act, retained all their prerogatives in the execution of basic police missions on land in the port district. A large part of the staff working in the northern services of the country is therefore dedicated to the execution of this ground-based police. The Southern Navigation Police Service is solely responsible for specialized shipping police missions. One of the tasks assigned by the Act of 1999 to the navigation police is border control. All the services in the north of the country are in charge of Schengen borders and must therefore commit considerable resources to their task of controlling and monitoring these borders. In the area of border control, the service in the south of the country is limited to second-line controls, since the occupants of vessels have already entered Schengen territory. Wallonia has no Schengen borders on its territory. The distribution of forces is therefore due to the fact that the Southern PNC is the only of the seven entities of the Directorate of the Navigation Police located in the Walloon Region, the basic police missions in the port areas which continue to be carried out by the services of the coast, Ghent and Antwerp and the absence of a Schengen border in the south of the country. The number of vessel inspections in the south of the country over the past four years is as follows. These are checks on professional boats, pleasure boats, coasters and housing boats. And 2014, 1 867. And 2015, 1 600. And 2016, 193. And in 2017, 1,342. It should be noted that these controls are becoming increasingly targeted by means of a database listing in detail the content and results of the checks carried out by all the departments of the Directorate of Navigation Police. In the case of infringements and accidents, the verbalisation is specifically due to these inspections of vessels, without warning with an order to restore order, without incident finding of judicial infringement outside the waterway, without submerged vehicle obstructing the navigation coming out of the waterways, etc. The number of infringements in 2014 was 433, in 2015, 263, in 2016, 202 and 2017, 205. In accordance with the principles of opportunity, subsidiarity and proportionality, no action had to lead to a seizure of a vessel. The solution of temporary immobilization of vessels is preferred. It should be noted that the numerous controls carried out on these waterways are extremely regulatory: the controlled violators are quickly recovering in order. With regard to coordination between the land police and the river police, the Southern Navigation Police carry out all the tasks assigned to it by the Act of 3 May 1999, namely: "the monitoring of compliance with implementing laws and regulations on and around the water, including on board ships and vessels; border control; the carrying out of judicial police missions on board ships and vessels; the execution of seizure on ships and vessels during the exercise of judicial and administrative police missions; the taking of all necessary administrative police measures within the framework of the water police". These tasks are carried out in accordance with the principle of speciality and subsidiarity as set out in Article 3 of the Act of 7 December 1998 on the Integrated Police. Thus, in the event of a request for intervention, the division of labour between the local police and the specialised police will be carried out on the basis of these principles of speciality and subsidiarity. As a general rule, therefore, the navigating police will intervene when their specialized skills or means are required to carry out the intervention. In addition to these specific tasks, the officers of this specialized police may intervene in the ordinary police missions. In the area of specialized support, the navigating police respond to requests for support from land police and other partners. It shall commit the necessary means on the basis of a specific analysis, e.g. the search for and securing of vehicles, objects and persons in inland waterways. On the other hand, when it is informed of an event requiring its presence on the spot, it commits its resources on the basis of a specific analysis and informs the police authorities concerned. I can give examples such as nautical, sporting and cultural events or any event leading to a halt to navigation or special precautionary measures in the field of administrative police.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u28	I would like to thank the Minister very much for his thorough and comprehensive answer. Indeed, I think it is important to stress, as you have done, the different specialization to the north and south of this waterway police. I stress that there is still the border with Holland in Visé...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u29	I am talking about Schengen borders! These are the large ports of Antwerp and Zeebruges and the airport. These are the boundaries I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u30	That's right. On the other hand, we are seeing – and it is happy because we are trying to degorge the motorways and others of very useless trucks – for the moment a development of commercial river navigation. Moreover, with the project which has just been validated from the link of the Senne to the north, so towards Antwerp, we will finally have a significant increase in traffic by this way which will allow to clear the roads all the more. This is not for the moment, since the work will only start, but the decision has just been taken. It will be necessary to keep in mind, Minister, that in a few years' time it will probably be necessary to take account of the evolution of traffic as well. I have no doubt that you will if you are still in charge of this department, as I wish for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u31	Mr President, Minister, while confrontations in and around stadiums are generally under control, new forms of violence are emerging between groups of supporters. These ultra-violent clashes, organised during the week and in secret places, take the name of "free fights". The first videos, from Eastern countries, appeared on the Internet in the early 2000s. Two groups of supporters face each other and approach each other almost quietly. The number of combatants has been defined in advance and is therefore balanced. To make the distinction well, the two groups usually wear different colours. Rules known to all the protagonists must be respected. These include the one according to which the goal is, in principle, not to cause excessive damage to its opponents, but rather to clearly demonstrate its supremacy and to make it known to the insiders, through the videos made. I'm not talking about cock fights – though... If the phenomenon is, it seems, still rare in Belgium, we can nevertheless find on the Internet videos involving supporters of the Antwerp – you will pay attention – of Bruges, Charleroi, Genk, Lokeren or the Standard of Liège. Minister, do you have an estimate of the extent of this phenomenon in Belgium? Has the police ever intervened in such fighting and, if so, how many times? Do you have any idea how many people were injured as a result of the fighting in our country? Is it, in your opinion, and given the specificities of this phenomenon, violence to be defined as linked to football? I know that the President is very attentive to it. Finally, do you think that specific actions should be taken to stem this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u32	Mr Flahaux, this kind of planned confrontation is usually not announced. There is therefore no record to provide a reliable estimate of the extent of the phenomenon. According to police information and the monitoring of social networks, it appears that about 20 cases of such confrontations have been planned this year. The groups involved are relatively small in number. Not all of these planned confrontations took place. The police have intervened on a number of occasions in order to prevent this kind of confrontation from taking place either through a visible and dissuasive presence of a limited police force or through the arrest of protagonists before the confrontation takes place. Participants in such confrontations do not file complaints with the police. The police do not have a census of the number of victims of assault and injury on such occasions. Although this kind of confrontation is no longer taking place around the stadiums, I believe that this phenomenon remains, to some extent, linked to football. Most of the participants in these confrontations are also, when they are not under a stadium ban, present as supporters during the matches of their club, supporters also keeping a certain culture of violence in order to defend their colors. However, some participants outside the world of supportism also join the group in order to strengthen it and test their ability to fight. In the end, participants in such confrontations are guilty of crimes. But it is not easy for the police to determine where and when such confrontations are planned. It is, however, important for the police services to maintain or develop adequate information, in order to continue to obtain information about such confrontations and to improve their knowledge of the persons involved, with the aim of countering these fights preventively, prosecuting the perpetrators of crimes when a fight has taken place and preventing such disturbances from taking place in and around the stadiums in the presence of other supporters who may be injured.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer. This is a problem which, as you have pointed out, is certainly marginal, but which deserves our attention. In any case, I believe that it would be wise for each of our police areas, plus the federal police themselves, of course, to be aware of the existence of this phenomenon, but also that it is a completely marginal and external phenomenon, even if they claim to be from certain football clubs. It is marginal and external because (and what is happening for the moment) football is first of all fun, sportiness and kindness. Well, I had in my city this Monday the "Hazard Village" with 1,500 people who praised the exploits of the Red Devils and especially my two players from Braine-le-Comte, Eden and Thorgan Hazard and so, that's why I wanted to insist that these free fights have beyond the label, absolutely nothing to have with real football.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u34	Mr President, Minister, I already questioned you extensively on 16 May about alcohol controls carried out by the federal police and the local police. However, a number of things are not entirely clear to me in the answer and I would therefore like to ask for two minor clarifications. Firstly, in relation to the number of controls carried out in the PDO campaigns, are they covered by the objectives of the local zones and federal police or are they covered by a separate objective? Secondly, in reply to my question 2b of 16 May, reference is made to the ambitious objectives of the federal road police to control 420 000 drivers. However, in response to question 4, it is claimed that the federal police should control 240 000 drivers. 420 000 compared to 240 000, which is a big difference. However, it can also be a reversal of numbers 2 and 4 in one or the other answer. However, it is relevant and I would have liked clarification on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u35	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, the objectives of the PDO campaign, both winter and summer, are a separate objective set out in a ministerial letter drawn up only for the winter PDO campaign, which is a non-mandatory nature for the summer PDO campaign. The checks carried out during the PDO campaigns by the federal police are however included in the federal targets. The State General for Road Safety has set the target of 1.2 million drivers to be checked per year, according to the 80 percent distribution key for local and 20 percent for federal police. This means that the local areas must account for 80% of the checks and the federal police must check 240 000 drivers, or the remaining 20%. That's the 240 000. It is not a number variation, because the target of 420 000 controls was put forward by the federal police in the long term, provided that the federal police were fully manned. We are working hard on this at the moment, but it is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I also assumed that it was 420 000. However, I found it nowhere in policy papers and such. In your reply, you said: "As you can read in the table above, the federal police did not achieve the ambitious target of 420 000 drivers to be controlled." That is what led me to conclude that this objective had to be achieved by now, otherwise we would not be talking about not having been achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u37	The 240 000 target was also not met. I think we came out at about 222 000. The target set at the States General is 240 000. They just didn't make it. However, road police have the ambition to go up to 420 000 when the framework is fully occupied. But the framework is not fully occupied at the moment. We'll work on that. The short-term objective was 240 000, which we did not achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u39	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 25962 will be dealt with in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u40	Minister, in a press release issued by the European Commission on 7 June, we read: "Today the European Commission has decided to send a reasoned opinion to Belgium because it has not notified the transposition measures required under the Nuclear Safety Directive." The Council Directive 2014/87/Euratom, the Nuclear Safety Directive, further strengthens the legal framework on nuclear safety and introduces high safety objectives at European level. Our country should have transposed the directive into Belgian law on 15 August 2017 and received a first warning from the European Commission in February. The European Commission has given our country two months to take all the necessary measures to ensure that the directive is fully and correctly transposed. If that were not the case, the Commission could refer the case to the European Court of Justice. Mr Minister, how is it that our country missed the deadline of August 2017 and did not notify the Commission of any measures until February this year? What measures has our country communicated? How is it that these measures did not meet the specific requirements of the directive? What new measures will we communicate? Can you assure Parliament that this communication will be possible within the new deadline? Which bodies will be involved? What's the timing? What lessons can we draw from this for the future, in order to ensure that we are always on time with measures concerning our nuclear safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u41	Ms Temmerman, the Directive 2009/71/Euratom was amended by the Directive 2014/87/Euratom of 8 July 2014 following the accident of the Fukushima-Daiichi nuclear power plant. The provisions of this Directive have been implemented in one form or another in the Belgian legal and regulatory framework for several years. For example, Articles 6, 8a, 8b and 8c of the amended Directive 2014/87 contain specific rules concerning the operators of nuclear installations. Those specific provisions of the Directive already apply in practice and are incorporated into the existing guidelines of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FANC). Those Agency guidelines have gone through a similar development process as an RB, in particular stakeholder consultation, advice from the Agency's Scientific Board and approval by the Agency's Executive Board. It is in particular in the guideline safety demonstration that the implementation of the nuclear safety objective of the Directive was transposed. Although they are not strictly legally binding, these directives explicitly include the requirements of the security authority. An operator of a nuclear installation that does not comply with it may be subject to an implementing measure according to a graded approach which may include, for example, the refusal to grant it a licence, the unilateral modification of its authorisation by the safety authority or even the partial or complete withdrawal of the authorisation. On the basis of the arguments put forward, Belgium considers that the Directive 2014/87 has already been largely transposed into existing Belgian legislation. However, a number of provisions were formulated too implicitly in Belgian legislation and should be laid down more explicitly, such as the promotion of safety culture. To this end, an additional draft of the Royal Decree amending the Royal Decree laying down safety rules for nuclear installations was developed. It also provides for the Agency's guidelines to be binding as technical regulations. The requirements already apply, as has already been said. In August 2017, the Agency decided to postpone the communication of the transposition measures to the Commission until it was complete. However, on 8 December 2017, the Commission notified Belgium of an infringement because it had not notified those measures. Consequently, it was decided to forward the existing documents to the Commission. The whole regulatory framework on safety was communicated to the Commission: the Act of 15 April 1994, the ARBIS, the RB laying down safety rules for nuclear installations, the RB laying down the nuclear and radiological emergency plan for the Belgian territory as well as several guidelines of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. After receiving the reasoned opinion, my cabinet requested that the aforementioned draft royal decree be received as soon as possible. The aforementioned draft royal decree will be finalized within the FANC this week and I will submit it to the Council of State even before the recess. That draft was approved without reservation by the Agency's Scientific Council in December 2017 and earlier this month by the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work. Some of the Agency's organisational documents, of its management system, which need to be adapted to formalise the implementation of the IRRS, as well as participation in thematic peer reviews and related documentation, such as the bilateral agreements with our neighbours, will also be delivered to the Commission. However, we must learn from this, in particular that the process of transposing directives at the FANC needs to be better managed with a formal and strictly followed-up process. That didn't happen. I am committed to putting that right in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u42	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut's 26036 was postponed. Mr Nollet, may I ask you to allow Mr Degroote, who is sitting in the front, to ask his question first? Then you can complete your list of questions. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u44	Thank you, Mr Nollet, for your willingness. I'll be brief. Mr Minister, I have a question about the police area of the canton of Borgloon, for which IDEWE concluded in a final report that there is a certain malpractice. The commissioner who filed the complaint was transferred. It is not the first time that whistleblowers have been pushed aside in Limburg. It looks like corps lines are actually using relocation as a covert disciplinary measure. At the time we saw such problems happening in Hazodi and in the Mechelen police. What does it really mean? It would be thought that the welfare law is not applied to the members of the integrated police. In this way, we must, in the long term, endorse the fear that certain whistleblowers will be thrown away from the integrated police force. The coalition agreement stipulates that a whistleblower statute is to be drawn up for the police. I myself have already tabled a legislative proposal to apply the federal regulations to the relevant staff. That is why I have the following questions. Were you informed of the problem in the police area of the canton or the zone of Borgloon? In the meantime, what progress has been made with the development of a regulation for whistleblowers at the federal level?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u45	Mr President, Mr Degroote, thank you for your questions. Mr Nollet, I can stay until 6 p.m. and my answer will take one hour. So that's unfortunate for you. [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u46	In that case, Minister, I will simply ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u47	Mr De Groote, my office, given the autonomy of the local police, is not, in principle, notified of reports from the local police prevention and protection services. Nevertheless, I am not entirely aware of the problem in the Borgloon police area, given, inter alia, the failure to extend the Chief of Staff's mandate in 2012 and the integrity check by the P Committee in 2013. In the implementation of the coalition agreement and as I included in my policy statement of 24 November 2014, a whistleblower statute for the police will indeed be drawn up. However, I would like to maintain the same methodology as for changing the disciplinary status of police officers, in particular to align them with the relevant regulations of the federal public office. In this connection, I can inform you that the draft law on whistleblower status, drawn up by the Minister of Civil Service, is now subject to the various forms of foster care. A whistleblower's statute has therefore been developed within the federal public office. We'll get wet for the cops on that. Work's going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the steps that have already been taken. I also heard that Minister Vandeput is working on such a statute. I hope the police can join us and not stay behind.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u49	Mr President, Minister, on 8 June last I asked your colleague Marghem about the nuclear liability of the company EZB, and she answered this – I will quote an excerpt: "On 14 December 2017, the Council of Ministers approved, at first reading, a draft royal decree amending the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 on the general regulation of the protection of the population, workers and the environment from the danger of ionizing radiation and aimed at avoiding situations which could lead to a possible passive radioactive waste and facilities to be dismantled, as drawn up by AFCN with the collaboration of ONDRAF and proposed by my colleague, the Minister of the Interior. The press release of the time stated: "In order to avoid situations which could lead to a possible liability for radioactive waste and facilities to be dismantled, safety within existing establishments or to be authorised will be enhanced. The project can also be seen as a strengthening of the requirements for operators of nuclear installations with regard to the radioactive waste produced, thus contributing to the achievement of the objectives of Directive 2011/70/Euratom, which establishes a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuels.'; To my knowledge, this royal decree is not yet published, but I am told that it should be soon. It seems to me best to ask my colleague, the Minister of the Interior, about the progress of this draft royal decree." That's why I'm coming to you. I come to ask you the question since it seems that this order contains an important article to advance the EZB case. According to your colleague, I quote again: "After a five-year break or earlier, when the Agency considers that the security of the establishment can no longer be guaranteed, the Agency may propose the definitive cessation of activities and the dismantling of the installations concerned in accordance with Articles 13 and 16. The decision may be accompanied by conditions relating in particular to the time limit within which the request for dismantling, including the planning and detailed rules for the execution of the dismantling, must be submitted pursuant to Article 17." Before re-examining Minister Marghem about the "disturbing situation" (its own terms) and what is being done to recover the "liability" of more than €6 million as soon as possible, I would just like you to tell me what is the status of this amendment to the Order. When I put my question, I read the Belgian Morning Monitor. It hasn't appeared yet, but I have the impression that since then the Belgian Monitor has accelerated things a little bit! However, I will listen to your answer: when will it be applicable? And will it solve the EZB problem? What is the article that solves this problem? That, minister, is a long development for a question, I think, which is relatively simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u50	Mr Nollet, the royal decree was signed by the King on 29 May. Let me be astonished at your question, since every Belgian citizen is supposed to read the Belgian Moniteur, in which the said decree was published yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u51	Yes, minister, but when I put my question, it wasn't. I made it clear. In my opinion, the Belgian Monitor has accelerated the pace! He reads my question, that's the truth! [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u52	More seriously, I come to what the royal decree provides. First, the operator maintains an inventory of all radioactive substances in the facility. For radioactive sources and waste, continuous and accurate inventorying is required. The Agency may lay down the details, which shall include the type of information required and the frequency of their updating. The inventory is kept at its disposal as well as that of ONDRAF. Secondly, with the exception of establishments specifically authorized there, the presence of radioactive sources or other radioactive substances unused for five years and for which no further use is foreseen must be justified. This justification shall be forwarded to the Agency. If deemed insufficient, it may require the operator to evacuate radioactive sources or substances outside the facility. Where a source or substance is declared "radioactive waste" within the accredited establishment, a notification of its evacuation must be submitted to the ONDRAF within six months, in accordance with the procedures which it has defined and which are known to the Agency. In the case of the company EZB, however, the situation is different, as it has always stated that it plans for further use for cyclotrons. In order for the Royal Order to apply, the operator would have to declare that no further use is foreseen. In this case, the FANC cannot rely on any facts to judge the contrary. Moreover, according to EZB, the Agency should receive a new request for testing with cyclotrons for future production. With regard to the article you mention, please be aware that, on the basis of the finding that activities have been discontinued for several years, the Agency has already resorted to the proposal for dismantling and discontinuance with EZB. The company did not subscribe to this, given the subsequent use of cyclotrons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u53	Minister, thank you for your answer. It will allow me to return to Minister Marghem, with the information you have just given, but also – obviously – from the publication of the royal decree to the Belgian Moniteur, which took place yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u54	Minister, the Doel 4 reactor automatically stopped on Saturday, June 9th at around 9:30 p.m. This new shutdown led to a particular situation: all Doel reactors were non-active... Great victory for ecologists in this area! In passing, I note the information provided by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, which is being disseminated much faster than usual, and I would like to congratulate them on this development. I am critical when the information arrives late but when it is on time, I stress it too. This officially confirmed that there was no immediate danger to citizens and the environment. That's, of course, so much better. Mr Minister, do you confirm that the cause of this shutdown is a new lack of control, this time a failure to control the power of the steam turbine? Was this incident classified on the INES scale? What measures do you recommend to prevent this kind of problem from happening again in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u55	Mr Nollet, a defect in his electronic control system caused the turbine of the reactor in the non-nuclear part of the plant to shut down, leading to an automatic shutdown of the reactor. After analysis, this event was classified at level 0 of the INES scale, i.e. a deviation of no nuclear safety significance. This event represents more of a production problem than a nuclear safety problem. However, at such an event, the AFCN requires the operator to conduct an incident analysis. It is the operator's responsibility to learn from this event.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u56	Could you give me this analysis when you have it? Otherwise, I'll ask you a question. It might as well save time and simplify the administrative procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u57	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u58	Minister, I have grouped the questions into one, updated on the basis of the information. In the additional information that your collaborator sent me by e-mail following my oral question No 25187 concerning the extension of the Tihange 3 judgment, in view of the important civil engineering works identified as urgent and given the problematic situation of concrete (situation also encountered at Doel 3, two reactors which are not the oldest), you inform me that if the physical deterioration of concrete had been detected on Tihange 3, its gravity had initially been largely underestimated. For this reason, it was considered necessary to stop the reactor at a longer time, at the time until 14 May, and to carry out immediate civil engineering work on the bunker housing the second-level emergency systems. I remember when we were talking about Doel 3, you told us that at first sight there was no identical problem in another reactor. It is now apparent from the situation in Tihange 3 that such a statement, although made with caution, was not correct in view of the damage caused by the exposure of the concrete ceiling to a high-temperature steam jet, it seems, during a compliance test of one of the valves. We learn on 15 June that Tihange 3's decision is now extended until 30 September, three months more than the first information. What's really going on? What is serious about all this? I feel like everyone is silent on the real reasons and the real problem. The duration of the judgment is exceptionally long. Is there a lack of data on this plant to recalculate? I ask you to do the topo on what was first discovered on Tihange 3 and what was later discovered. This will allow us to understand why such delays have been necessary and why it has not been possible to give the right timing of the work from the outset. Is, as with Doel 3, a lack of maintenance for the situation in Tihange 3? Do you confirm that, both for Doel 3 and Tihange 3, the situation calls into question the resistance to an event of the "aeroplane fall" type? Do you already have all the guarantees that in Tihange 3, the problem is exclusively due to the discharge of steam during the specific test of a valve performed when the reactor was already stationary, or do other phenomena also come into play? I read that the concrete frame would also be affected. That's the order of the anomaly. If the frame rusts, it confirms a let go. Rust doesn't appear overnight. In any case, there is a problem of lack of maintenance, but it is probably not just that. If it rusts, it's not normally an anomaly. What's going on in the back? What is your information? As always, I ask you the question of the final INES classification of the situation on Tihange 3. What guarantee do you now have that this type of situation (concrete problem or even underestimation) will not recur in the other reactors of the same type, Tihange 2 and Doel 4? Is it not appropriate, under the sole consideration of safety and security - which is your responsibility - to proceed without any delay with the inspection of these two reactors? Why are these inspections postponed until August, when there is a clear urgency? What requirements, what information have led to this inspection not being immediate? In passing, I would like to congratulate AFCN on its rapid communication, since the Agency provided a series of clarifications on the same day that it was informed by the operators, that is, on 15 June. But now, of course, I want to know more, beyond that quick and welcome communication that the AFCN made when it was notified of the changes. I want to know more. I think everyone has the right to know, about this bizarre and worrying situation, exactly what it is. I will therefore listen to you with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u59	Mr Nollet, the inspections carried out by the operator as part of the ageing management process during the previous judgments in Tihange 2 and Tihange 3 had identified deteriorations requiring further investigation and possibly repairs. This work was planned for the scheduled stops of 2018 in Tihange 2 and 2019 in Tihange 3. However, Tihange 3's scheduled shutdown this year revealed a worsening of the concrete deterioration of the bunker ceiling, probably as a result of valve setting tests. Additional analysis of the concrete roof after stripping of the deteriorated parts revealed anomalies in the construction of the concrete reinforcement during manufacture. The potential impact of these anomalies must be assessed to demonstrate that the bunker is being subjected to external accidents. With regard to the lack of maintenance, the case of Tihange 3 is slightly different from that of Doel 3. The process of managing the ageing of this concrete has been applied in general correctly, i.e. the physical deterioration of the concrete has been detected, the problem has been monitored and remedial actions (here a repair) have been planned for 2019. The problem encountered is therefore an underestimation of the seriousness of the problem leading to an overestimation of the acceptable deadlines for carrying out remedial actions. Indeed, the combination of the ageing of this concrete with the calibration tests of a valve has led to damage, whereas such consequences were not yet anticipated given the known state of the concrete. To ensure nuclear safety, the operation of rescue systems must be guaranteed at all times. For this reason, this building must be able to withstand an external event. However, the degradation of the detected concrete and the anomalies discovered in the metal reinforcements could call into question the resistance of the Doel 3 and Tihange 3 units to an event of the "aeroplane fall" type and, consequently, the guarantee of the operation of these emergency systems. The damaged parts of the ceilings of these premises must therefore be repaired during these stops. The resistance of the buildings will have to be demonstrated so that AFCN and its subsidiary Bel V can give their green light to the restart of the Doel 3 and Tihange 3 reactors. The analyses showed that the concrete condition at Tihange 3 was previously weakened by warm and wet conditions, but that this degradation was aggravated by the exposure of the concrete ceiling to a high-temperature steam jet evacuated during a compliance test of one of the valves and performed when the reactors were already stationary. This event was provisionally classified at the zero level of the INES scale. Following the discovery of anomalies in the concrete reinforcement, a new INES assessment is under way. The AFCN will provide me with the results of this new INES analysis by updating its communication on the subject. Although the main reason for the degradation of concrete is similar to the Tihange 3 and Doel 3 reactors, i.e. prolonged exposure to warm and wet conditions, the extent of degradation at Tihange 3 is less severe than at Doel 3. In the case of Tihange 3, this degradation was aggravated by a high-temperature steam jet evacuated during a compliance test of one of the valves when the reactors were stationary. Be aware that these premises are systematically inspected at each scheduled stop. The problems of underestimation of the deterioration of the concrete encountered will lead the operator to correct the procedures in order to improve the effectiveness of the inspections. AFCN, with the assistance of Bel V, will continue to follow this issue closely. Following the discovery of the degradations at Doel 3 and the results of the inspections carried out at Tihange 3, the operator assessed the desirability of advancing the inspections of reactors that could be affected by the same concrete degradation problems, namely Tihange 2 and Doel 4. Following a concerted analysis, the operator did not identify any justification for shutting down the two reactors for immediate inspection. The operator therefore decided to conduct the inspection of Tihange 2 during the shutdown scheduled for August 2018 and to advance the scheduled shutdown of Doel 4 in November 2018 to August of this year, just after the scheduled restart of Doel 3. After an independent review of the operator's analysis, AFCN and its subsidiary Bel V agreed with this approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u60	Mr. Minister, I will analyze your rested-headed remarks, but my warm reaction is to tell you that the answer you have read is neither reassuring nor complete enough to understand the seriousness of the situation. Two elements are calling me. First, the necessary time limits are extended, while initially this question had been underestimated, but it had been assessed after Tihange 3's judgment. Other issues are certainly at stake, but you don't give them in your answer yet. We might think that not having all the elements is normal since the analysis is still under way. But I have doubts and allow myself to express them, even if I put them on a conditional basis and I will continue to work on the file. Secondly, what is certain is that today four out of seven reactors are shut down. More than half of our reactors are shut down. This situation must ask many questions for those who want to prolong nuclear power. For some, it is due to leak problems, for others to problems related to concrete. With regard to Doel 3 and Tihange 3, we can cite other problems, other incidents. Moreover, we have just concluded a question on Doel 4, with the incident we have encountered. No one can discuss it today: a problem related to ageing and the proliferation of incidents exists. I will ask you again about the question of concrete because information will still be provided on this file and probably also on the other Tihange 2 and Doel 4 plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u61	Minister, during our exchange on May 16th on the subject of bringing our nuclear power plants into compliance with the 2014 seismic standards, you informed me that a first version of the work to amend the Royal Order of November 30, 2011 laying down safety requirements for nuclear installations had been finalised by the AFCN and transmitted to ENGIE Electrabel at the end of March 2018 so that the company's remarks could be received by the end of May. Since this deadline has now expired, I would like to know the comments made by ENGIE Electrabel on the draft transmitted to it by AFCN. Minister, can you tell us what the comments made by the operator are about? In your answer, you pointed out that the length of the transition period would be explicitly one of the points to be addressed in the consultation with the operator. Can you tell us in a very precise way what the reflection of ENGIE Electrabel on this subject has been?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u62	Mr Nollet, we have indeed received the return of ENGIE Electrabel on the proposed amendment of the Royal Order prescribing the safety of nuclear installations. The remarks are of two kinds. This is on the one hand requests for clarifications accompanied by possible suggestions in order to understand the meaning of the proposed amendments, in particular when these changes deviated from a literal translation of the 2014 WENRA reference levels. On the other hand, these are objections arguing that some of the proposals made went beyond the content of the 2014 WENRA reference levels, which would have a major impact on Belgian nuclear power plants. These objections are correct. Through some news, we aim to ensure that Belgian reactors all have the same level of safety, with an alignment upwards. On several points, some of our reactors are actually very well designed and defend themselves against the standards of the new reactors, which is not necessarily the case for all the old reactors in Europe. In particular, ENGIE Electrabel cites three articles that could lead to significant design improvements and two articles related to aging management. For the transition period, ENGIE Electrabel is still working on defining the actions needed to comply with the requirements. In particular, I assume that ENGIE Electrabel does not yet have a concrete project for the requirements for which it has raised the main objections. So I can't give you a precise and detailed answer yet. It is clear, however, that changes to these requirements may require very long time to define, order and perform the necessary work. Given the magnitude and timing of these changes, they are typically considered in the context of the 10-year revisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u63	Minister, this is not going well at all. In order to meet the new 2014 seismic standards, these plants need to be improved, but they will be given a deadline so that the work will not have to be completed before they close! We will therefore operate for about ten years with plants that are no longer at all standard, which are not able to withstand an earthquake. In your proposed reasoning, and as you relay, it is vicious to see that they are no longer in a position to cope with earthquakes, but that such a delay is given that work will never have to be carried out, which is heavy and can only be carried out during the 10-year revisions. It's not right. This demonstrates the inability of our plants to meet the necessary safety standards for all citizens. We are facing a real problem. The question of the time limit is not a solution in this respect. You say that the analysis is still in progress, in part. I expect the PSAN to be firm and not provide deadlines that simply match the needs of the producer. These deadlines must be in line with the need for security and safety that citizens, both in Tihange and Doel, are entitled to demand. I will follow this file very carefully to see what the final answer will be in terms of the deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u64	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delizée's 26093 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u65	Minister, as we know, the country's oldest nuclear reactor was unanticipatedly shut down on Monday, April 23rd in the morning. 6,000 litres of radioactive water have fled. In 36 hours, it's not nothing! First of all, I want to empty a question that could not have been answered in our previous discussion on the subject on 16 May. Was the container that received these 6,000 litres large enough or did it have to be pumped to empty it regularly? What is, in fact, the capacity of this receptacle, of this leak collector, which, fortunately, has proved to be functional? But above all, I want to go back to the causes of this incident. At the May 16 meeting, you told me that the operator was going to conduct a thorough analysis of the cause of the leak. So I come back to you more than a month later with the same questions. What is the exact origin of the leak? Does it result from a lack of maintenance or a delay in the necessary investments? Can we fix the duct? Or, given that the pipe is probably still buried in the concrete, will the repair be impossible, so that we will not be able to restart Doel's No.1 reactor? What are the points of attention already identified by AFCN with regard to this Doel 1 reactor problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u66	Mr Nollet, the reactor is equipped with this collection tank specifically designed to collect and recover water in case of leakage. The purpose of this reservoir is not to contain the full volume of water from the leak. The design requires the water to be collected in this reservoir to be pumped periodically. That is indeed what happened in this case. The tank was pumped several times and on the basis of these pumping operations, the amount of water discharged could be estimated at about 6,000 litres. Since then, the operator has taken the necessary actions and measures to study this event in detail and to determine its causes. The AFCN reported on its requirements for the future management of this event. A weekly meeting is held between the Agency, its subsidiary Bel V and the operator to discuss the progress of this issue. The operator examined the pipe in question more accurately and found that the leak was next to a weld, not on a weld, as originally thought. The leak is on a part of the pipe that is accessible because it is not buried in the concrete, making it easier to repair. The cause of the event will be determined after removal of the relevant pipe part and laboratory analysis, which could take several weeks. On June 14, the AFCN approved the operator's proposed method of repair. Discussions between the AFCN and the operator, the additional inspections and the analysis of the cause of the incident continue, and the AFCN has identified a number of points of attention on which it will have to give its formal approval before the operator can proceed with the implementation of these actions. AFCN continues to monitor the situation carefully and the operator will not be able to restart the Doel 1 reactor until it has received the Agency's green light.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u67	Mr Minister, you say that there are a number of points of attention, but one of my questions was precisely what these points of attention were. If you don't have them in front of you, may I ask you to pass them on to me later?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u68	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u69	Question No 20108 by Mr Frédéric is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u70	Minister, on June 7, 2018, the pumps of the Tihange 2 fire water circuit were made unavailable simultaneously during the completion of a test. However, operating conditions require that at least one of these two pumps be available at any time, including during testing. Can you tell us exactly what happened and how long this problematic situation lasted? Can you also tell us what was the proposed INES (International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale) classification proposal suggested by the operator and what was ultimately the classification made by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCSA)? Why such a difference between the two rankings? Can you tell us whether this incident once again has a connection with the lack of rigour in management in Tihange, a problem already pointed out earlier and which led the AFCN to deposit pro justitia and to carry out an approach towards Mrs Kocher, the great boss of ENGIE? What political lesson do you learn from this new problematic situation? What has been done in the aftermath of this new incident to prevent the recurrence of such acts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u71	On 7 June 2018, the pumps of the Tihange 2 fire water circuit were made unavailable simultaneously. This incident was classified at level 1 of the INES scale. It has had no impact on the safety of staff and the population or on the environment. The Tihange 2 fire water system is powered by two pumps designed to deliver water in the event of a fire. Operating conditions require that at least one of these two pumps be available at any time. During a programmed test to verify the proper functioning of one of the two pumps of the Tihange 2 fire water circuit, the second pump of the circuit started unexpectedly, disrupting the smooth running of the test. In order to remedy this problem, the employee requested that this second pump be made unavailable. As a result, none of the pumps were available for 54 minutes. As a result, the operating conditions were no longer met for the duration of the test. However, the situation was re-established within the time limit laid down in the technical specifications, as the problem was corrected at the end of the test. After analysis, this event was classified at level 1 of the INES scale. The initial classification proposed by the operator had been set at level 0, but it was raised to level 1 by the safety authority for reasons of lack of rigour of the operator's personnel rather than a proven technical problem. This event had no impact on the health of workers or the population or on the environment. With regard to different incidents, the Agency does not link the latter event to the previous pro justitia. The first pro justitia, on August 3, 2015, was closed by Huy's Public Prosecutor's Office after Electrabel paid a fine. The second pro justitia of 6 June 2016 is in the hands of Huy's parquet. Indeed, this event, which is not in itself a technical problem, is nevertheless an indicator of the lack of a safety culture. The action plan initiated in response to the events of 2015 is coming to an end. However, its effectiveness requires in-depth evaluation. The efforts made in the framework of this action plan for improving the safety culture must be maintained, if not strengthened. The AFCN will continue to monitor, with the assistance of Bel V, all such events and will take the necessary action if necessary. The operator will be invited to assess the effectiveness of its current management process for regulatory variances. Preventive actions have already been proposed in this context. As I said, the AFCN will continue to monitor, with the assistance of Bel V, all such events and will not hesitate to take further action if necessary. I would add that I am fed up with a new issue of a lack of a safety culture. As I said, I have already met with the leaders of Electrabel and asked them to work on it. Again, a minor incident is due to a lack of a safety culture. I will therefore call again the management of ENGIE-Electrabel to inform him of this. I'm really sick of it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u72	Mr. Minister, I understand what you're talking about. I'm not adding any more! When it is not necessary, it is not necessary. As a first step, you say, in your answer, that there is no connection. But, listening to your answer to the end and deepening, we realize that we are again clearly in a lack of rigour. Fortunately, there was no impact on the public or on workers, as the AFCN also says. But we may come to a situation that could be a problem and no one wants: neither you, nor Mr Gilkinet, nor myself. Nevertheless, I think that you are right to push a mouth, especially since they are precisely in a security plan that should normally draw their attention to this kind of problem. Again, we note that they have not learned enough from this experience. I can only encourage you to continue your efforts and will ask you again about this meeting, what has resulted from it and, above all, how they explain this state of mind that has not changed enough. Listening to them is interesting: this situation could be due to an individual problem, it can happen. But this would be too easy, when work must be done as a team and hierarchical or horizontal controls must exist in this kind of situation. If I am satisfied with your answer, I am not satisfied with the situation. Of course, you take charge of the situation. I know what that means. I've known you in similar situations a few years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u73	Mr President, Minister, the French Nuclear Safety Authority (ASN) presented this Monday, 11 June, at a press conference in Metz, its 2017 assessment for the power plants of the "Grand Est" region, including that of Chooz directly near the beautiful province of Namur. Once again – since this is not the first time I've asked you about this – the record is worrying, since it appears that "several significant events took place in Chooz, revealing a lack of rigour and obvious faults in the safety of the plant". In its communication last week, the ASN noted the following points. In terms of nuclear safety, 2017 was marked by numerous hazards during reactor shutdowns, which resulted in a high number of significant events related to non-compliance with general operating rules. These events again reflect – as the ASN says – a lack of rigour in behaviour and the formalization of practices, as well as the fragility of the resources available for the operation of the facilities. In terms of maintenance, hazards during reactor shutdowns revealed difficulties for the site in re-establishing the proper functioning of the equipment concerned, in particular in mobilizing sufficient human skills and resources, including for service providers. Finally, in the field of radiation protection, deficiencies – as always indicated by the NSA – have been observed in order to optimise the radiation exposure of workers. Several internal stakeholder contaminations occurred as a result of the lack of inclusion in prevention plans of safety recommendations from the preparatory phase of activities. Several events also reflect a lack of radiation protection culture during access to the yards. By telling you, Minister, I am cold behind my back, especially since this is not the first time that the NSA has identified such problems. Of course, it expresses it in a highly technocratic language, as always in the nuclear field. Nevertheless, his criticism seems to me to be explicit. Since I cannot speak to the French Minister of the Interior, I ask you my questions. Minister, can you tell me if you have read the NSA report? Do you, like me, find the proliferation of critical and negative reports on security in the Chooz nuclear power plant, literally enclaved in our territory, worrying? I don't have to remind you. What have you undertaken with regard to the French authorities to inform them of our concern about these findings? What measures have the French authorities undertaken to take to remedy this situation? What is the future timetable for Franco-Belgian consultations and actions and in particular for your next meeting at which this topic will be specifically addressed? Thanks to Mr Nollet, I know that you meet regularly with the French authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u74	Mr Gilkinet, AFCN has not been notified by the Autorité de sûreté française (ASN) and has not yet read this report. It does not escape you that the control of the safety of French nuclear power plants falls within the competence of the French nuclear safety authorities. They shall ensure that French operators take the necessary steps to ensure the safety of their nuclear installations at all times. I am convinced that the French authorities will respond appropriately to this case, if necessary. I also hope that you understand that it is not possible for me to comment on issues that are taking place completely outside our country. In our territory, know that the AFCN operates continuous monitoring via the automatic measuring network of the TELERAD radioactivity. This network is active throughout Belgium and in particular in the vicinity of the Chooz power plant. Also know that there is an information exchange agreement between the Belgian and French nuclear safety authorities. The Convention provides that in the event of a well-defined event and situation in relation to nuclear sites close to the Franco-Belgian border, it is the responsibility of the competent authority to notify its counterpart. This agreement applies to all events classified at level 1 and above on the INES scale, as well as certain specific events classified at level 0 or not classified. A bilateral meeting between the PSAN and the NSA will take place in the fall of 2018. When neighbouring countries become aware of information about our plants, for example about the INES level, they contact me. From now on, I will do the same with France. Had the NSO informed AFCN and provided necessary and collegial explanations, I would have had no problem – with good communication. In this case, I think I must intervene with my French neighbour to obtain information and express our concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u75	Finally, Minister of the Interior! The end of your answer saves all of it. What I ask you to do is officially inform the French authorities of our concern. Indeed, when TELERAD identifies radioactivity or when a serious incident occurs, it will be too late. I am shocked to learn that you did not receive this report, which was communicated to the press by the ASN. Chooz is more in Belgium than in France; it is a French enclave in our territory. We can observe the prevailing winds towards Belgium and the Meuse flowing to our country. If a serious problem occurs in Chooz, it will be "for our apple". The proliferation of negative reports about the security culture of this power plant deserves a strong diplomatic reaction. I therefore thank you for your commitment to contact France. It would also be important to make public the text of the letter you are going to send to your French colleague. I shall continue to question you, given my frustration that I am not in charge of this plant and that I am not able to ask him questions as precise as those which Mr Nollet is asking you in relation to the Belgian power stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u76	Minister, a knowledge test was organized by the federal police on February 27, 2018 to select candidates who could, in the event of success, access promotion training to the rank of Divisional Commissioner. It is also referred to as a management certificate. The threshold for successful completion is defined by the Royal Decree "Patent of Management" of 9 October 2017 and is set, in Article 12, at 60%. However, it appears from the letter to the candidates for this test dated 6 April 2018 that the Federal Police arbitrarily lowered this threshold by 60%, applying a "corrector coefficient" to the results obtained by the candidates. On this occasion, in my view, the federal police violated the Royal Decree of 9 October 2017 and its article 12, clearly adopted for this selection test. Minister, do you confirm my analysis of the illegality of applying a correction coefficient to the results of the candidates in the course of the said test? If not, how do you justify this decision? If so, how can one admit that an authority in charge of compliance with laws and regulations uses such artifice, a fortiori for organizing its own recruitment and internal selection tests of its executives? This is symbolically inappropriate. Given the illegality of applying this correction coefficient, what will happen to this selection process? Will it be necessary to do it again? Do you fear that this type of manipulation will undermine the confidence of federal police officers in the institution they serve? For the future, should this selection of candidates for the police leadership certificate not be entrusted to an independent body such as Selor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u77	Mr Glikinet, in answer to your various questions, I can inform you that, as part of the knowledge test, held on 27 February, all candidates participating in the entrance examination for promotion training to the rank of Divisional Commissioner received an identical correction coefficient. No candidate has been discriminated against, since the ranking remains the same after the application of this correction coefficient. This knowledge test, organized within the framework of the management certificate required for the promotion to the rank of Divisional Commissioner of Police, is currently the subject of a dispute before the Council of State. At this stage of the procedure, I cannot comment more on this matter, but I can give you my idea of this type of examination by giving you a concrete example: A selection is currently being organised for new members of the new DAB management (this has nothing to do with the subject in question). We wanted to recruit 300 people, but we barely reached the figure of 200. On the basis of the results, I find that people cannot start the training, because they missed the race event within 10 seconds over a distance of 2.5 km. In my view, they can start their training, but they must prove themselves at the end of the training. Everyone is able, with a little will, to win in six months 10 seconds over such a distance. Everyone can do it. In this case, if there are small deviations, it may be decided to include them in the training but at the end of the training, the results must be achieved. This gives us the opportunity to have candidates without lowering standards, but by doing the test at the end of the training. I think it's a matter of common sense. We need to see how the legal framework can be adapted to that end. For firefighters, that's how it happens. There's the federal patent. If the candidates have not acquired it, they can start their training, at the end of which they must obtain the desired results. That's my personal appreciation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u78	Mr Minister, I appreciate that you are coming out of your text and talking about it in concrete terms and with your guts. That is how we can move towards solutions. With regard to the test on which I am questioning you, there is clearly a non-compliance with a rule of law (a royal decree), and one can question the test as such. Has the calibration been well thought out? Was the test adequate? But I put myself in the shoes of candidates for this test, who took a lot of time to prepare it and who are obviously competent, since they are, for the most part, part of the federal police. When we find that the federal police themselves do not respect the rules that are in the law, while they are responsible for enforcing the law, there is a real risk of a breach of trust. You're saying there's an appeal to the Council of State. No doubt this will not improve the relationship between the persons who brought this appeal to the Council of State and the institution they represent. It's really a record of failure that needs to be made. We can therefore wait, on the one hand, for the outcome of this appeal, and for the future, possibly, to change the way in which candidates for leadership positions are assessed, because we do need them to rule justice and law in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic933x.u79	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Friart's 26159 was postponed. Mr Maingain did not say anything, nor did he ask for a translation into a written question or a postponement. With the application of Article 127, 10 of the Rules of Procedure, his question No. 26190 as repealed. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Ben Hamou's 26224, 26225, 26226 and 26227 were postponed. My questions are as follows: 26196 and 26216 are converted into written questions.
