ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u1	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 25504 and No 25504 25567 by Mrs Ben Hamou will be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Frédéric's 25616 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u2	Mr President, Minister, the union SYPOL.BE recently decided to table a strike notice running until June 15. In question, the concern of the members of the technical and scientific police laboratory in Brussels following the announcement of a forthcoming change of timetable. About 30 people are affected by this change. The purpose of the amendment is to quadruple the number of guards, according to the union that fears for the quality of the work. For him, less time will be devoted to object analysis and verbatim reporting. In addition, this change in schedules will result in the departure of several staff members. The union already deplores the loss of several elements due to a lack of communication. Minister, what is your position on these statements by the SYPOL.BE union? Can you reassure us about the impact of this change in schedules on the work of the lab teams? It appears that no request for minimum service has been made. In such cases, during strikes, how is the work performed? Sometimes it's urgent. Every day, laboratory teams are called many times. Is it then used by other laboratories? Do you consider it useful to establish a minimum service in this sector? Minister, I want to take this opportunity to share with you my solidarity, because, unfortunately, police officers have fallen into the field of honour, I want to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u3	Mr Flahaux, thank you very much for this last point. I come back from Liège where a minute of silence was respected. It's challenging, but life must continue. To answer your questions, at its meeting on 13 February 2018, the Basic Consultation Committee No 197 was asked to deliver its opinion on a memorandum organising the adaptation of the structure and permanence of the laboratory of the PJF (Fenderal Judicial Police) in Brussels. Three representative unions gave a negative opinion, while one union gave a positive opinion for a six-month test period and a monitoring every two months. An adapted version of the organizational note was published on 6 April. Its entry into force was set for 1 September 2018. On April 30, 2018, the non-representative union, SYPOL.BE, filed a strike notice covering the period from May 15 to June 15, 2018. So far, there have been 24 hours of actual strikes by some of the staff. In the new organisation of the PJF laboratory in Brussels, the team structure is replaced by a process-oriented organisation while the permanence system is simplified. The organization of working time provides, as before, a 24-hour permanence in three shifts, seven days a week. There will no longer be a separate permanence depending on the type of intervention (theft, crime). Requests for intervention are now distributed among the staff present. The composition of the permanence teams is dynamic, taking into account, at all times, the overall volume of staff available at the laboratory. The permanence role shall be communicated to staff members at least four months in advance. The physical presence of staff during the night was reduced by 50 per cent. Since we had very specific responsibilities, we needed much more staff. This means that we could have, on the one hand, some crimes in a specialty with overloaded staff and, on the other hand, staff with nothing to do. We have thus optimized the organization. The May 17, 2018 strike was announced for 24 hours. The appeals were handled by staff members who were not involved in this action. Police strikes must always be announced in advance. This allows the organisation to take steps to ensure continuity of service, for example by the requisition of personnel that is possible within the police. New initiatives in this area are therefore not necessary. It is a status different from that of SNCB or prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u4	Minister, thank you for this complete and complete answer. You responded to all the elements, including the fact that the union calling for the strike was extremely minority and unrecognized. I therefore imagine that this did not have to seriously disrupt the service, especially since the requisition is possible within the police, contrary to what is done at SNCB. This makes it possible to have a continuity of essential service, especially in the case of indices to be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u5	Minister, I didn't think my question was going to be as terrible as it was today, given the events of yesterday. A few weeks ago, I addressed you about the assaults of police officers by migrants on motorway parking lots in the direction of the Belgian coast. Unfortunately, the situation has not improved. On the contrary, it now seems to extend to areas far from the coast: Waremme, Bierges, Aishe-en-Refail or Spy, to name but a few, are now victims of the same phenomenon. Most recently, some 30 migrants have again attacked a police patrol, forcing them to call for reinforcements. Four persons of Syrian origin were arrested, the rest of the group being able to flee. Minister, in your reply, you announced that you had asked the Commissioner General that the co-ordinators concerned should carry out multidisciplinary, integrated actions on a daily and co-ordinated basis. You also told me that motorway parking would be subject to private surveillance in the short term. Three months later, can you take stock of this topic, unfortunately still current? How many such incidents have been recorded and in which places? Have the initiatives you announced been taken and, if so, have they already borne fruit? Do you think that further action should be taken in the light of the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u6	Mr Flahaux, in a letter to the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police, I asked at the end of January to intensify multidisciplinary actions in Brussels, Hal-Vilvorde, Leuven, Antwerp, East Flanders and West Flanders, in Walloon Brabant, Hainaut, Liège and Namur - deployment of the federal and local police, customs, the Office for Foreigners, etc. - at the level of the coordinating directors. These actions are organised both on motorway parking lots, in ports and on railway tracks. In addition, on 13 February, a private security company began monitoring motorway parking. Five parking lots are monitored every night. These car parks are selected on the basis of a permanent analysis. The aim of this monitoring is to increase the safety of users of motorway parking lots, as well as to provide a deterrent effect on migrants attempting to access trucks via these car parks. For your understanding, every day the five parking spaces can be different. This changes according to the analysis that is done. On April 13, the contract between the federal government and the company was terminated. A similar contract was concluded in Flanders with a private security company for a period of five and a half months. Negotiations in the Walloon Region for a similar initiative are also under way. In 2018, there were seven acts of aggression against private security officers and three acts of aggression against the police. These events occurred in the parking lots of Grand-Bigard, Aische-en-Refail, Saint-Ghislain, Rotselaar and Thieu. Current actions generate results and must also be continued. Indeed, very many transmigrants are still intercepted in the various car parks. A displacement effect is also clearly perceptible here. More and more transmigrants are being intercepted in motorway parking lots. They are moving more and more to the interior of the country. There has to be an increase in the number of cases of assault. This increase can be explained by the sustained efforts of the police services, which cause frustration among traffickers. I believe that the police services provide high quality work in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. You mentioned in advance the progressive installation of surveillance cameras on the parking lot. I think that the two actions can take place in parallel, without one being excluded. It seems to me essential that this is not on the five identical parking spaces. If that were the case, they would be very soon known and the value of the measure would not be very great, except for the safety of these parking lots. Things seem positive to me. You mentioned the existence of a contract in Flanders, but not yet in Wallonia. I hope that the contract for Wallonia can be concluded quickly. Of course, the real solution to the problem of migrants would be at the bottom. Otherwise, we feel like the cat running after his tail. The incident last night brought a complementary element, with this fight between migrants, instead of an attack by migrants against police officers. There may also be police attacks on migrants, but I don't want to. This element is therefore new and disturbing. Unfortunately, I will have more than certainly the opportunity to come back to the subject in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u8	Mr Maingain is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u9	Minister, I can refer to the discussions we have had on several occasions on the massive illegal appointment of staff to the Brussels local authorities with regard to the knowledge of the second language. In this context, you have finally taken some modest measures regarding the payment of language premiums to those administrations. You have found that there are quite a few language premiums paid to people who do not actually have the Selor language attestation required for this purpose. At the time, you put three things first. Firstly, the Deputy Governor would draw up a report for the period from 1 May to 31 October. When I questioned you about it in November, you got that report. It is in fact a summary table of what will be part of the annual report for 2017 of the vice-governor. These figures are poignant, as in all previous years. Of the 1 185 recruitments from the municipalities and OCMWs during that period, at least those delivered to the vice-governor, only 278 are in accordance with the language law. That's only 23.5 %. Secondly, you have asked the Brussels-Capital Region to provide you with a list of the persons for whom the reimbursement of a language premium is requested. It is not clear to me whether you were given that list. You will submit that list to Selor and Selor will provide you with a report on it. When I questioned you about this last November, it was in any case not yet available. Thirdly, you have asked the Brussels Government to submit a route for those officials who do not yet have the required language licence to achieve it. In November of last year, you were not worried about that route either. At that time, I had to conclude with you that cooperation with the Brussels authorities is not really a good thing. More than six months later, I would have liked to have seen the state of play of this dossier. In the meantime, have you received the requested lists from the Brussels Region? Have they been submitted to Selor? What were Selor's findings? Can we get that report from Selor, too? Secondly, have you in the meantime received this request from the Brussels Government? What's that look like? Can we get correspondence on this with the Brussels Government? Thirdly, in view of the findings and the conditions that you have laid down for the payment of the language premiums, what are your decisions on issuing the necessary KBs in this respect? My second question concerns fraud in the past. Every year you pay EUR 25 million for language premiums to the Brussels Government for the Brussels local authorities. In November 2017, I quote you on this point: the services concerned have paid language premiums to staff who do not have any Selor certificate. Furthermore, you stated that a decision of the Brussels Government of 29 September 2011 clarifies that the regional services may only pay language premiums to staff holding Selor's certificate. I conclude from this that those services, which are reported to be in serious financial difficulties, spend millions of euros each year in violation of the law. That's what you established at the time. I can only conclude from this that, in the past, the Brussels local authorities, with the silent knowledge of the Brussels government, have committed large-scale fraud in paying language premiums. My questions are as follows. Firstly, will you take measures to recover the wrongly paid premiums in the past in one way or another? If so, how far would you go back? If you're not going to, can you motivate why not? The Minister for the Budget would certainly be very grateful to you for any additional income in this way. Secondly, in the royal decrees that have yet to be issued, do you intend to deduct the amounts of fraud from the federal money that will be paid out? Do you see any other ways to settle those amounts in one way or another? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u10	Mrs Pas, I think you are right to ask for the over-refunding premiums to be effectively recovered. The KBs that are drawn up on this issue always strike back on the two years before. The KB, which was not made last year, was about premiums paid in 2015. The 2016 KB was paid back on premiums in 2014. For 2015, the Brussels-Capital Region simply provided an overview of the amount to be reimbursed to each municipality or OCMW. It was only ensured that the total amount did not exceed EUR 25 million. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. I have started by asking for lists of the officials for whom the premiums are to be reimbursed, together with the Selor certificate they have obtained, their working regime, etc. Those lists are controlled by my employees. Indeed, the lists examined show that a significant number of the refund applications are not in conformity with the law. This was noted at the end of 2016. I decided that from 2017 on, correct lists of correct data had to be provided. Since questions relating to matters of private interest or to personal cases are a violation of the privacy of the persons concerned, I cannot make the lists available to Parliament. This is really about very personal matters. As regards the premiums unduly paid, which were paid by Brussels municipalities and OCMWs. I can't recover those premiums. I can respond to the Brussels Region, but not to the municipalities and OCMWs. As regards the payment of the premiums, I organise a consultation with the Brussels-Capital Region. For the time being, I have not yet received any route or the full, correct data from the Brussels Government. As soon as I have the correct data, I will, of course, draw up a KB to pay the language premiums again. As long as I don't get it, that means 25 million for the federal state's cashier every year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Minister, you said you were given the lists. Those lists are being checked. Were those lists submitted to Selor? Have you received a report from Selor? This was not the case six months ago. Is that even true in the meantime? It is true that you cannot recover these amounts directly from the OCMWs and the municipalities, but you can of course do so through the Brussels-Capital Region. In view of the 'great' cooperation with Brussels, you could perfectly incorporate these amounts into the premiums that would be granted in the future. I hope that you will take this concern to heart and will not leave the sums unduly paid blue blue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u12	Mr President, Minister, since the sixth state reform, the Regions have been responsible for regulating exceptional road transport. The Flemish Region has not yet developed its own rules on this subject, with the result that it falls back on federal legislation, as is usually the case in the case of state reform. In the meantime, a draft law regulating private and special security is being drawn up at federal level, which included the supervision of exceptional transport. We now find ourselves in a vacuum because the revision of that legislation does not allow the arrangements for the escorts to go away and the Flemish authorities have not yet developed their own arrangements for the supervision of exceptional transport. Mr Minister, I have the following questions with regard to this bill. Is the situation, with regard to the draft law, similar in Brussels and Wallonia or does the problem apply only to Flanders? Were you aware of this problem? Why was the supervision of exceptional transport explicitly taken out of the law on private and special safety? Have you been in contact with the Regions about this? Who is currently responsible and competent? At present, there does not even seem to be a legal framework. Can the police be asked to accompany exceptional transports in the context of public order? Who is currently responsible and competent for delivering the badges for the escorts? Under what law should this be regulated and classified? In what way will you resolve this situation? Is it desirable to re-adjust federal legislation? Why is that? Why is that? Have you consulted the Regions since the new Law on Special and Private Security came into force? I'd like a little more explanation. Who is currently the beneficiary of the fines collected when the escorts do not comply with the conditions of exercise? At the moment, all this is unclear. I am not a specialist in private security legislation myself, but I understand that we are currently in a vacuum with regard to those supervisors. I notice that you are shaking no. So I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u13	Mr President, Mr Van den Bergh, the issue of exceptional transport, and its support, was, as you said, regionalised in 2014 as part of the sixth state reform. We also revised the law of 10 April 1990 on private security. That revision no longer included the activity of "supervisory transport services' as a monitoring activity in the draft law which led to the new private security act of 2 October 2017. That makes sense, since the federal government, in this case the FPS Home Affairs, is no longer competent to further regulate that activity. It is important to know that the new private security law has lifted the old private security law, but that lifting only applies to matters that are not regionalised. Thus, the old law still applies to regionalised matters until the transfer has been finalized. As regards the exceptional transport services activity, the effect of this is that the private security law of 10 April 1990 will continue to apply with its implementing decisions until the competent regions provide for their own new rules or adapt existing rules at their discretion. There is therefore no legislative framework in place, since all the obligations relating to authorisation, training, identification card, reporting, etc. which had to be respected before, must still be respected today in the implementation of the old Tobback Act of 1990. However, as a result of the transfer of powers under the latest state reform, the practical management of the subject matter of assistance was also exceptionally transferred to the Regions. This means that the Regions are responsible for the application of the private security law of 1990 on exceptional transport services activity. For example, applications for permits or for identification cards must be submitted to the relevant regional services and no longer to the Home Office. The control of those activities, the imposition and collection of any fines, shall also be carried out from those regional services. According to the information available to my services, the following regional departments are responsible for this matter. In Flanders this is the Agency Roads and Traffic, department Expertise, traffic and telematics and the team Heavy Transport. In het Waals Gewest is dat de Service Public de Wallonie, Direction de la régulation de la sécurité route, service Transport exceptionnel. For the Brussels-Capital Region, this is Mobile Brussels and the Exceptional Transport Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u14	Thank you for this clarification, that is quite clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 25736 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u16	Prime Minister, I would first of all like to endorse your words of appreciation to the police for the events in Liège. You have often said over the last few hours that we are doing too little, and you are right. I come to my question. According to reports in the press and statements from the Bergen parquet, the local police in Bergen failed to contact the Voogdij service at the time it found three minor unaccompanied foreigners in the van in which the deceased Mawda was sitting. The result is that some of those unaccompanied minors have disappeared. Meanwhile, some have already surfaced in northern France. Is that right? What exactly went wrong there? What steps are you taking to avoid that in the future? At the very least, clear guidelines are in place for all police forces that the protection reflex should be a priority if unaccompanied minors are found anywhere. What steps does our country take to find children without parents and provide the necessary protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u17	Mr Minister, since unaccompanied minors, i.e. without a family, are entitled to protection here, every police department or administration must inform the Ministry of Justice in order to provide their protection. This service then appoints a guardian, who, together with the younger person, seeks a shelter. The three minors who were also in the van, it turns out they didn't. The local police of Bergen is normally responsible for administrative handling and should have contacted the Voogdij department. In the meantime, we've been reading a number of reactions. For example, the Minister for Justice, I quote - "How this could have happened, is being examined. The chaos may have had something to do with it. It's about people who all speak different languages, it happened just before and on the weekends. I think it's been force majeure of thirty arrested at the same time and a killed child." During the plenary session at the end of April questions were asked to Secretary of State Francken about the problem of missing unaccompanied minors, who last year were 618, of which only 124 were notified to Child Focus. The Secretary of State underlined - and I quote - in the plenary session: "The registration has never been so good. In the past, there was no registration. The number went from 120 to 600. That's not because there are more disappearances, but every disappearance is now always registered. That didn't happen before." Firstly, do you agree with the Minister of Justice's statement that this may have something to do with the chaos? Did the local police of Bergen fall a stink by not alerting the Voogdij Service? Can you give me a ruling on that? What action will be taken on this? Can you tell me how many unaccompanied minors have been notified by the police services to the FPS Justice Service since 2016? Since registration seems to be even better, are you considering initiatives to improve the registrations from the police forces?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u18	I may have to correct something first. They're talking about three unaccompanied underage aliens. In the end, we are talking about two minors, because one of the three appears to be of age. For the two minors, a detailed and detailed document of three pages, the so-called description sheet for unaccompanied minors, had to be drawn up for the attention of the Voogdij Department. Because there was no interpreter available, the document was not filled in by the police and an empty document was returned to the DVZ and not, as the procedure requires, to the Voogdij service. However, the procedure is very clear: the local police find, the local police deliver an administrative report to the DVZ, the DVZ checks and sends a description sheet back to the local police, the local police provide the necessary information to the permanent service Voogdij. The Voogdij Service was therefore not informed of the situation, not by the police, nor by the judicial police responsible for the investigation. It appears that the Voogdij Department had already prepared a file on one of the two minors as a result of an earlier interception on 12 May. I have indeed sent a letter to the police that such facts must be correctly followed. I would add that police work is a work of people. People are not infallible. The day we replace police people with robocops, we may eliminate human failure, but then humanity in the police is completely gone. That's not an apology, but those are the circumstances. In an organisation with 45 000 policemen there will always be mistakes that should not happen. I fully agree with that, but it remains an organisation of people. Finally, Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, you asked for registration figures. That is the competence of my colleague from the Justice Department, Koen Geens. I would therefore ask you to put your question to Mr Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u19	For the sake of clarity, Minister, I have one more question, because I did not understand this very well. Have you sent a circular to all the police forces in the country to remind them of the procedure and the protection reflex, which is so important?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u20	Mr De Vriendt, it is short notice. The writing is in preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u21	So the idea is to write around. Occasionally, reports and figures of children without parents missing in Europe appear in the press, i.e. unaccompanied minors, who are in danger of falling into the wrong hands, which is, of course, terrible. Such disappearances are also taking place in Belgium. It is therefore very important that we monitor these children and that the police really have the reflex to be very attentive when they find children without parents anywhere in Belgium. It has also happened in the Maximilian Park, where children without parents were left alone for too long. However, the police have the opportunity and the power to simply remove these children from the group immediately and to provide them with the necessary protection immediately. Adult migrants are often in the grip of smugglers in any case. For children, especially for children without parents, the risk is much higher. A quick performance is therefore absolutely necessary. I hope such incidents don't happen anymore. I trust you when you answer that you will re-register all the police forces. Try to ensure that such situations do not repeat themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u22	Minister, I am of course fully aware of the often difficult work of our police officers, especially now that the whole of our country is in mourning as a result of the tragic death of two of them. It is therefore difficult to deal with this question here now, but I have one more question. You said that the three-page description sheet could not be made up because of the lack of an interpreter, but that sheet is made up in our language, isn't it? Does it have to be signed? I don't understand exactly how that works. You announced that you would explain the procedure clearly to the police forces and call for attention to be paid to it. I think that's a good initiative. As my colleague said, we paid attention not so long ago to the large number of unaccompanied minors who are disappearing in our country and who often suffer a tragic fate in this way. We must continue to ensure that this is avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u23	I brought that chip. If you want, you can get a copy of it. Of course, this sheet contains information on diseases and disabilities, for example. Some handicaps are seen, others are not. There must therefore be a dialogue with the person concerned. That is the problem with the interpreters. Within the DVZ there is a working group to review the procedure and possibly simplify it. As long as that has not happened, the old procedure will of course apply. I can get you the document.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeulen has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeulen's 25728 will be dealt with in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u25	Mr Minister, on an earlier question from myself, you said that three ARIECs were set up or would be set up, in Limburg, in Antwerp and in Namur. There was indeed the greatest problem. I heard from a journalist who did specific research on motorcycle gangs that a number of phenomena seem to be shifting and that new phenomena are emerging. East and West Flanders are located on the Dutch border, but also on the French border. As a result, a short, easy route can exist between the two countries. The shift can occur in two ways: either by new members in new chapters or new clubhouses in West Flanders, or by using the territory of West and East Flanders by OMCGs coming from other provinces or even countries. On 26 March, the joint action of three police zones and the federal police already made a spectacular catch of people who were situated around the Red Devils motorcycle club. The various searches resulted in...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u26	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u27	Also a football club but in this case it was about a support group of the Hell's Angels. These searches resulted, among other things, in the seizure of large amounts of cash, large quantities of marijuana, various quantities of amphetamines and hashish, large quantities of packaging material and other drug-related objects. During the search, six people were arrested and interrogated. Subsequently, several findings were made regarding the prohibited weapons found such as telescopic matracks, pepper spray and boxing brackets. At the beginning of May, Tielt's police also invaded members of No Surrender and again at a support club, West Side Brotherhood. In February, an Outlaws vzw was also founded with a seat in Menen. The Dutch motorcycle club Satudarah, which has only become active in Belgium since 2012, is not yet active in East and West Flanders but is apparently busy recruiting in both provinces. However, the Highsider cell would consider that there is no so-called waterbed effect that would allow these OMCGs to shift their activities to other provinces. In a number of places, a clubhouse of such an OMCG is quite anonymous. In other places it is very clearly indicated that the property is a clubhouse. Taking into account the limited number of members of a chapter and the fact that most of the members do not have a particularly high income, the question can be asked where the income comes from to finance such a club house. Knowing that drug and arms trafficking is the main source of illegal income, it is also striking to learn that port workers in Zeebrugge and several truck drivers are members of such an OMCG. Is there an increase in the number of chapters or the number of members of OMCGs in East and West Flanders? How great is the risk that such an OMCG will shift its criminal activities to East and West Flanders, if necessary from other provinces? Will there eventually also be ARIECs for the provinces that do not yet have one? How do the three existing ARIECs support the other provinces? The Highsider team used to consist of five people, now four full-time equivalents are provided in the organic table, but in reality only three are active. Are these three sufficient for the increased number of members and chapters in recent years? Is there any backup coming or not? Which services of the police and other authorities investigate the origin of the funds needed for the purchase and rental and management of a clubhouse? What results has this already led to? In what way can a local authority possibly use administrative measures to investigate and ensure that the funds come from normal sources? To what extent is Highsider aware of the fact that port workers and truck drivers are also members of those OMCGs? Will they then be specifically checked to see if they may abuse their profession to assist in criminal activities involving some OMCGs? In what way have the police and security services of the province of Zeeland and the departments of Nord and Pas-de-Calais been consulted on the activities of such OMCGs, criminal motorcycle gangs?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u28	Mr President, in 2018, one new chapter was created on our territory. This has not yet been located but is likely to be located in Wallonia. In 2017, eight chapters were founded, one in East Flanders, Satudarah, and one in West Flanders, No Surrender. A new chapter means new members. On average, we speak of about 10 members per chapter. There is therefore no significant increase in the number of 1 % international motorcycle clubs followed by Highsider in the provinces of East and West Flanders. We do not see an increase in the number of criminal activities committed which could result from the displacement effect or waterbed effect of motorcycle gangs in neighbouring provinces and countries. There are no elements that indicate that East and West Flanders are more interesting places than the other provinces for criminal motorcycle gangs. This situation will, of course, be closely monitored by the services concerned. Three pilot projects have currently been identified, in the provinces of Antwerp, Limburg and Namur, for a period of two years. Its evaluation will determine any extension to other provinces. There is no structural support for the other provinces, but there is consultation between the existing ARIECs. The pilot projects run in the provinces of Antwerp and Limburg and the project in Namur starts in September of this year. I come to your fourth question. The number of chapters from 1 % international motorcycle clubs has increased from 9 in 2000 to 60 in 2017. At the moment we count 49, but 2018 is of course not yet over. In addition to these large signboards, the official supporter clubs also exist. The Highsider section should therefore follow up more members with fewer staff. The tasks to be carried out have also been greatly extended over the years. The workload is therefore clearly increased. Priority must be given. Investigations into the financial resources of clubs and their members should be conducted at the level of the search services of the zones or of the FGPs. The Highsider section is not aware whether such investigations have already been carried out. However, a file on money laundering was recently launched against a member of a club. With regard to the administrative approach, the Highsider section has prepared a brochure in which various advice is given to tackle criminal motorcycle gangs. Five aspects of the club are highlighted: the events, the club house, the members, the engines and the companies associated with the club. I come to your sixth question. It is difficult to be systematically aware of the professions that the members of the clubs perform. Apart from the profession registered in the national register, information via the police information flux will be sent to the Highsider section. Indeed, it is common for members to work in key positions, enabling them to facilitate criminal activities, such as the port, a transport company, the airport, etc. It is also common for persons in the members' entourage to carry out a function in administrations which have interesting information available. The international exchange of police data takes place through the usual channels. A more direct way of cooperation with the police forces of neighbouring countries can take place on an ad hoc basis. The EURIEC project was recently proposed. This is the cooperation on administrative enforcement between Belgium, the Netherlands and the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia. The aim of the EURIEC is, inter alia, to promote the exchange of information between the different regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u29	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I note that since the start of Highsider there has been a spectacular increase in the number of chapters and members, but not in recent years. However, there have been locally spectacular differences. I refer to Limburg a few years ago. I am waiting with you for the first evaluation of the existing ARIECs, after two years of operation, to see to what extent adjustments are needed. As far as I am concerned, your answer to my fifth question is important as regards the origin of the funds and the way in which the investigations are carried out. You referred to the zones. I hear from several local police areas that they are working on it, but as a police council member I myself get very few answers when I ask specific questions. I now hear from you that a brochure has been produced with specific advice on a number of points. I think that is a very good thing. I'd be interested to get it, just to know how it works. I am thinking of the advice for the zones and a possible feedback to Highsider. For the rest, the information you have given me is sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u30	Mr Minister, the 2017 Standing Committee on Linguistic Monitoring (VCT) report, which includes hearings on various language complaints concerning the fire department in Brussels, shows that compliance with language legislation and the balance in the language frameworks of the fire department in Brussels is a clear problem. There was also a lot of criticism about the language framework of the Brussels fire department, which was approved in 2011. At that time, it was felt that less than a third of Dutch speakers could never guarantee a bilingual service. For example, there has recently been a problem with training for Dutch-speaking Brussels firefighters who want to be part of the firefighter's intervention team for dangerous substances. This course was largely given in French, but the Dutch speakers had to pass their exam in Dutch. The VCT found this contrary to language law. The problem of insufficient bilingualism in the fire department is not just a problem for the Flemings in Brussels. The Brussels-Capital Region has also chosen to set up a number of fire stations on the outskirts of the Region. Within the framework of the fastest adequate assistance, this means that the fire department is to a large extent also to provide cross-regional assistance on the territory of the Flemish Region. The Region itself has chosen that its staff should provide this assistance to the Dutch-speaking needy. In my oral question No. 22529 of 17 January 2018, later converted into the written question No. 2876, published in the Bulletin of Questions and Answers B146, I asked you what conclusion you drew on the basis of complaints about compliance with the language laws of the Brussels fire department. You were not able to reply at that time, because the 2017 annual report of the VCT had not yet been made public. In the meantime, it is available and shows that between 1 July 2016 and 14 November 2017 there were 28 complaints at the VCT, from private individuals and from Dutch-speaking firefighters, working at the department of Fire and Urgent Medical Assistance. A very comprehensive chapter is devoted to this. Mr Minister, here are my questions. Firstly, what are the conclusions of the hearings on this issue? Secondly, can the current language framework in the fire department of Brussels still be used to enforce language legislation? In other words, can every needy person still be helped in his or her own language by the Brussels fire department? Thirdly, are there federal funds, such as bilingualism premiums, which are granted to Brussels relief zones, which depend on the correct application of language legislation? Finally, what conclusion do you draw from the complaints about compliance with the language laws in the Brussels fire department?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u31	Mr President, following the cooperation agreement between the federal government and the Brussels-Capital Region on the administrative status of the operational framework of the assisted areas, which refers to the language laws, and following a large number of language complaints concerning the Brussels fire department, which came to the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring, hearings were held in spring 2017. These hearings went through behind closed doors. It is, of course, impossible to bring up everything that was said during those hearings here. Furthermore, anonymity has been promised to the people with complaints. I can tell you that there were some poignant stories. During the hearings, the members of the VCT felt that the problem needed to be addressed. All members of the VCT were given the opportunity to pass on names of persons to be heard. Finally, during the month of June 2017, at four hearings, 20 people were heard. Following the hearings, the findings were discussed in the Joint Committee of the VCT. However, a unanimous conclusion was not reached. The five French speakers and three of the Dutch-speaking members decided that a number of complaints were unfounded because they were not concrete enough. If, for example, the complaint stated that the instructions were not given in Dutch, the complaint was declared inadmissible because it did not state which instruction was not given in Dutch. If the complaint involved regular lessons only being given in French, the complaint was dismissed as inadmissible because it did not specify exactly what lessons were involved. I have to admit that this is a strange way of working, as the people with complaints were heard personally. We could have asked those questions at the time. However, they came to the conclusion that written and oral communication to firefighters should always be done in the language of the firefighter or woman, which is not the case now. Training must ensure that training continues in the language of the student, which is not always the case. I think it is very important that compulsory training, such as in connection with the Ebola virus or the training terro, was initially given only in French in a monolingual way. The conclusion is also that the service should be organised in such a way that Dutch-speaking patients or victims can be helped in their mother tongue, which is not always the case. Nor should it be possible for a fire service operating in another region to be unable to use the language of that region. In addition, a minority opinion was formulated by two Dutch-speaking members of the VCT. They point out that the minimum number of Dutch-speaking firefighters needed to guarantee the Dutch-speaking services to citizens is between 350 and 429, depending on the figures. This number is not provided for in the language frameworks and could therefore be an explanation for the number of complaints. They also argue that voluntary firefighter training leading to a premium should also be provided in the language of the student. Finally, they consider that the complaints which have been declared unfounded, because they were too vague, as I said earlier, should be regarded as well founded. Further explanations could be requested and given by the persons who were personally heard. All this can only lead to the conclusion that there is a problem with compliance with the language laws in the fire department in Brussels and, consequently, with the assistance provided by the fire department in Brussels. In reply to your question about the current language frameworks, I inform you that the language frameworks of the Brussels fire department had expired on 8 August 2017. The fire department asked and was then allowed to extend the current language frameworks by two years. After all, the Brussels fire department was in restructuring. Following the restructuring and by 30 June 2019 at the latest, new language frameworks should be established. The establishment of the language frameworks must take account of the essential importance which Dutch and French regions represent for each service. During a consultation between the VCT and the Brussels fire department, prior to the hearings, the Brussels fire department mentioned that there were too few firefighters of the Dutch language role, that a Dutch language should be included in each ambulance, that written messages to the staff should sometimes be written only in French and that the personnel department should consist mainly of French speakers. Consequently, it is not always possible for a Dutch-speaking firefighter or woman to be helped on that service by someone who knows Dutch and that there is not always someone present to give lessons to Dutch-speaking people in Dutch. These are all violations of the language law that firefighters are admitting. They are all violations to the disadvantage of Dutch. This is due to the fact that there are too few Dutch-speaking staff. When setting up the following language frameworks, these findings will certainly have to be taken into account in order to ensure that their own staff are treated as required by the language laws, so that the assistance can be given in Brussels in Dutch or French, depending on the language of the needy and so that the assistance in Flanders can always be given in Dutch. Then I come to your question about the fund of EUR 25 million. As you know, the KB was not drawn up in 2017 because I did not receive accurate data from the Brussels services, including the Brussels fire department. They haven't been paid either. You also had a question about the priority of the language law. During the procedure of handling the complaints, the Regional Secretary of State, responsible for the Brussels fire department, also received the opportunity to respond to the complaints made. On the complaint concerning the language used by officials, she replied that the language laws were not infringed, since the officials against whom a language complaint was lodged used their own language as prescribed by the language law. However, language laws also say that the staff who are spoken to must be addressed in their own language. That obviously didn't happen. It is regrettable to note that, despite the persistent complaints, they are not being used as a signal to address the situation, but that everything is being done to minimise the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-30-54-commissie-ic908x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I find the facts you mention hallucinating. The number of offences is hallucinating, as is the response of the competent Brussels member of the government, who says that there are no violations of language legislation. You yourself say that there are complaints and poignant stories. I also find it very strange that the VCT cannot reach a unanimous conclusion and even declares complaints unfounded, while the facts are very clear. There is a fundamental problem. A third of the firefighters in Brussels must be Dutch speaking and two thirds French speaking. There are therefore no training courses in Dutch and for a third of the staff, while urgent assistance must also be provided in the Flemish Region. The fact that the personnel department cannot also speak to its own staff in Dutch because they are French speaking there is something that should not happen in this country. Something's got to change. We will certainly follow that up in the next few weeks and months. I am remembering the deadline of 30 June 2019, right after the elections, to ensure that the language framework that will then expire is correctly extended so that an adapted and correct answer is provided.
