ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u1	We will start with a question from Mr Bogaert which dates from 3 October last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u2	Madam Minister, according to Belgium's 2015-2018 stability programme, approved by the Federal Council of Ministers on 24 April 2015, Belgium will achieve a structural balance by 2018. Today there are important deviations on the route. Often, arguments to justify a deviation refer to three or six or twelve months earlier, making the analysis very political and less analytical. If we consider the entire period since the government's approval of the stability programme, there can in principle be three reasons for a major deviation. It may, firstly, be a significantly lower economic growth and activity than planned. What were the expected results for 2018 and for the end of the legislature in April 2015 compared to today's forecast for 2018? Has the policy played into this? Secondly, if it is not due to growth, then the differences are due to expenditure or revenue. Over the period 2015-2018, can you indicate where the differences are in terms of growth, expenditure and revenue, and what political attitude do you adopt to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u3	Mr Bogaert, the 2015-2018 stability programme was indeed based on achieving a structural balance by 2018. Over the period 2015-2017, a structural improvement of 0,7 % would be achieved each time, starting from the realisation 2014 as published in April 2015 by the INR. The structural balance for 2014 was estimated at minus 2.8 %. In this way, there would still be a residual effort of 0.6% in 2018. In that scenario, the government went beyond the minimum improvements required at that time under the preventive arm of the Stability and Growth Pact for countries that were no longer subject to the excessive deficit procedure, i.e. an improvement in the structural balance by more than 0.5% per annum. However, the MTO, which was 0.75 % of GDP at the time, would not be achieved. Meanwhile, however, the MTO was revised to 0 % as a result of structural reforms of the pension system. However, at the request of the European Commission, the stability programme shall be updated annually. This must allow the governments of the Member States to take account of new policy impulses, reorientation, reforms, exceptional events or changes in the economic situation. For example, the 2017-2020 stability programme in 2017 assumed that the structural balance would be achieved by joint governments in 2019. The adjustment was due inter alia to the fact that the improvement in the structural balance between 2015 and 2016 was less than expected due to the economic, fiscal and budgetary impact of the March 2016 attacks and the additional costs for managing that crisis and the asylum crisis. It is also necessary to take account of the evolution of the major political orientations and of the new structural measures planned for the end of the legislature. I am thinking, among other things, of the national pact for strategic investment, the tax shift and the reform of corporate taxation. The government's focus is on restoring and strengthening sustainable growth and job creation. We have to recognise that some of the measures taken by the government in this context will only yield their full return in the slightly longer term, while some of them may cost in the short term. As a result, the budget is being reduced more slowly than the government wishes. However, they have the advantage of benefiting our country's competitiveness and not avoiding the recovery of the economy. May I also remind you that the Belgian nominal deficit for 2017 was estimated by the FOD BOSA to be below 1.2 % last November, or a reduction of more than 60% compared to the deficit in 2014, then minus 3.1 %. Budgetary restructuring is essential to protect the next generation. Only a dynamic economy can guarantee the long-term viability of our social protection. Without growth and job creation, a budget cannot remain in balance for long.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u4	Madam Minister, have I heard correctly that the medium term objective goes from 0.75 % of GDP to 0 %?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u5	It has been brought to minus 0.5 by the European Commission. That is an advantageous level for us. Because of our fault, that was taken to 0. We started with an MTO of 0.75 % and that has now been brought to 0 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u6	That is not an objective. So we shouldn't improve on MTO?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u7	The MTO is going to 0. In order to ensure the long-term financing of the State, there must be a balance. That's 0 %. For the pension reform we had to have a surplus in order to guarantee the long-term financing of the State. If we work on the budget lines, we can clean up the finances and reduce the deficit by acting directly on revenue and expenditure. For example, if you reform pensions in the long term, you also improve the MTO, the medium term objective. This means the capacity of the State to take long-term account of the ageing of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u8	You mentioned nominal minus 1,2 in 2017. How much is that structural?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u9	That hasn't been calculated yet. I think I remember that it was structuralally minus 0.8 percent in the initial budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u10	In November?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u11	No. I repeat: -1.2 % structural. We didn't calculate that. We did calculate that in September, for the initial budget of 2018, with other figures for 2017. These are set out in the general explanatory memorandum to the 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u12	You don't have a figure for the structural deficit for 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u13	We calculated a structural balance for 2017. When making the 2018 budget in September, we updated the 2017 figure. We had a nominal balance of 1,48 % in the initial budget of 2018. The initial budget of 2018 shall recalculate the nominal balance of 2017. Meanwhile, we have the nominal balance for 2017 of 1.2 % in November. That was a provisional figure for which we did not calculate a structural balance. The next few days we will have new provisional figures, which will be very close to reality. We will have the nominal balance, perhaps not the structural balance, for 2017. The real account will not be known until April, as usual. So I'm gonna ask for a few more days of patience.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u14	We have no news from Mr De Vriendt. His question No. 21151 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Coninck's 21433 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dispa's 21479, which we have not heard from, is also deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 21962 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u15	Madam Minister, the ESA accounting rules protect us from Member States using their own rules, according to their own wishes. It is, of course, commendable to protect us from such proliferation. On the other hand, these rules often hinder investment, because they still rely on cash accounting. In the past, Belgium has used the principle of cash accounting on several occasions rather than double accounting in order to improve its budget. Are you planning to question the ESA rules and move Europe to a double accounting system and therefore no longer rely on cash accounting?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u16	Mr President, in the past, a cash account was drawn up for the State as a result of which the transition to ESA must be ensured. Today, the whole of the ESA's accounting system is being prepared, albeit for non-tax revenue, on a cash basis and not according to the established fees. The ESA accounts may indeed constitute a brake on investment in the sense that the value of an asset is charged at the time of the transfer of ownership. This has an impact on the balances. This issue is currently being examined by the European Commission in the context of the debate on the national plan for strategic investments. I would also like to remind you that the accounts of the State, which are subject to Parliament's approval, are presented in the form of double accounts. This means that they contain a balance sheet, a profit and loss account and a budget account. Moreover, the budget account is based on ESA standards. This means that our budget is indeed drawn up in accordance with the principle of double accounting, as in the private sector and in accordance with European law, because we have both.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u17	If we have both now, I wonder why Europe does not take that second type of accounting into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u18	That's a question I can't answer. I believe that ESA is intended to be able to treat the accounts of the various States in a similar way. I am not convinced that every state uses the same accounting system. I only know the situation for Belgium. It is true that, according to the ESA rules, the value of a property is charged at the time of the transfer and this can indeed put a brake on large investments. That can hinder investment, and that is what we are saying to Europe. We are not asking Europe to change the ESA system, because it is an international system and it must not be affected. It is Europe that evaluates us, and it is in its evaluation, the way it evaluates us, that we call for special attention to be paid to investments with a special return on investment. Is it the National Bank or is it something else, like the Juncker plan? For the Juncker plan, the condition to be met in order to obtain a special evaluation from the European Commission is too strict, and that is why we are discussing it. The question is not to question the ESA standard, but rather to review Europe's assessment of our balance in relation to certain investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u19	So you're sticking to ESR? That's what it comes down to?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u20	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u21	Madam Minister, the takeover of the liabilities of the Belgacom pension fund during the Verhofstadt government in 2003 was a highly debated issue. It was not so much about the amount itself, EUR 5 billion, which in principle was calculated actuarially well, but about the idea that the updated value was paid immediately to help the budget. There is also a connection to the previous question, because it also had to do with the ESA accounting rules. What is your political attitude towards the takeover? Was this a good thing for the federal government? If I remember correctly, its obligations go on for a very long time. For what amount did this issue weigh on the budget during this legislature? How do these amounts relate to dividends paid annually to the federal budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u22	At the time of taking over the liabilities of the Belgacom pension fund, the ESA 95 rules applied. Indeed, the takeover of the liabilities had a positive impact on the budget of the joint government. The EUR 5 billion deposit had to be registered as a public revenue. However, the introduction of ESA 2010, the successor to ESA 95, has undermined the benefit of that operation. The ESA 2010 is the current version of the European System of Accounts, which has been applicable to the national accounts of the EU Member States since 1 September 2014. As indicated in a publication of the INR of September 2014 on ESA 2010, the payments made by an undertaking to the State in the context of the transfer of their pension obligations should be considered as a financial advance. Registration of government revenue shall only take place in proportion and at the time the corresponding pension benefits actually take place until the amount paid in advance has been exhausted. Consequently, there is no impact on the balance sheet during the year in which the liabilities are transferred. In subsequent years too, the ESA impact is nil, as the same amount of revenue is recorded against the payments made. Only once the amount paid in advance has been exhausted could there be an impact on the balance of the claim if there are still payment obligations for the persons concerned at that time. The transition from ESA 95 to ESA 2010 has therefore led to many revisions. For example, in the statistics of the NBB, the balance of claims for the common government for 2003 has been substantially revised downwards from a surplus................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ For the pension fund of Belgacom-Proximus we will pay approximately 400 million to retired former employees this year. The difference between the amounts received and the amounts paid is neutralized in the account by the ESA correction, to take account of the depreciation of the capital received when taking over the pension fund, as I have just explained. The operation is neutral for the State, so long as the capital received is not fully written off. After that, that will no longer be the case. According to the information available to me, the end of the depreciation is foreseen between 2021 and 2022. If such an operation could be used in a certain way to artificially reduce a budget deficit, it should be noted that the recent update of European rules in this area has made that process much less profitable. We also see that this will lead to additional costs that will have an impact on the budget paths within a few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u23	What happens is actually a fabulous story. In 2003, the then government decided to raise the 5 billion, the amount was politically higher than it was, and the government was able to make other expenses. In 2010 it is decided that this can no longer be done. That's very cynical. In the meantime, the result at the time was negative, but the government's payment of more than 400 million in cash does not have to be recorded as an item of expenditure as a result of the 2010 correction. In fact, the problem has been pushed backwards, the matter has been changed statistically, and in the meantime all the governments have to pay 400 million in cash in the future, but they are no longer included in the budget. That's one of the most cynical things I've ever seen. What is actually being done is to advance future commitments in 2003 and to include them in the budget at once. In 2010 new statistical data were used and all these obligations were reversed and all these obligations - 400 million until 2023............................................................................................................................................................................................. I am surprised that such a hocus pocus is no longer mentioned in public opinion. For the record, this is no blame on this government, but if one understands what exactly happened, then this is one of the most crazy things that has ever happened. Meanwhile, we pay out 400 million a year. Cash-wise, that money is gone, it is not recorded, there is supposedly no expenditure on the structural balance, but it is 400 million that comes to the masses of debts of Belgium. Overall, I think what has happened is a very bizarre and absolutely unwelcome scenario.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for being here. My question is dated November 20, 2017. One might think that it has become somewhat obsolete, but not necessarily. On 18 November, the European Union institutions announced that they had reached agreement on the EU budget for 2018. Minister, what is your analysis of this European Union budget for 2018? Will this budget allow us to follow the political priorities of the Juncker Commission? Does the European Union impose as much budgetary orthodoxy as it imposes on its member countries, including Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u25	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, you did ask your question on 20 November 2017. On 17 November, I was at the European Council of Economic and Financial Affairs, ECOFIN Budget, to negotiate with my colleagues from the other Member States, as well as with Parliament and the Commission, the 2018 budget. Following intense negotiations, agreement was reached on a budget of 160.1 billion in commitment appropriations, an increase of about 1% over 2017, and 144.7 billion in payment appropriations, an increase of about 7.5% over 2017. This increase in payment appropriations is due to the fact that some projects started under the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework reach their cruising speed in 2018, after a rather slow start. This results in a lag from the original payment scheme and, therefore, more payment appropriations than originally planned for this year. For Belgium, this represents an increase in appropriations of 18% compared to 2017, taking into account repayments made in 2017. It is therefore 500 million euros in addition for 2018, for a total of 3,172 billion euros. This budget focuses heavily on priorities such as supporting economic growth, creating jobs, enhancing security and responding to the challenges posed by migration. Beyond these priorities, I am also pleased to note that new prospects for action are emerging at European level with the Social Summit held in Gothenburg, Sweden, in November. It is Europe's future social policy that we are defining. As a convinced European, I believe it is vital to provide the European Union with an ambitious budget that gives it the flexibility to support the Member States in meeting the major challenges of recent years and a sufficient margin to meet the challenges of tomorrow. In my view, the credibility of the European project is at stake. Nevertheless, and as I had the opportunity to say at the ECOFIN meeting to my colleagues from the other Member States, but also to the representatives of the European Parliament and the Commission, we must ensure that, in determining our budget, Europe takes account of the budgetary constraints imposed at national level. Indeed, Europe cannot ask the Member States, on the one hand, to continue to clean up their public finances and, on the other hand, to always contribute more to European budgets. In this regard, in addition to the efforts in the operating budgets that must be respected, I stressed at ECOFIN the need to ensure greater budgetary predictability by, inter alia, ensuring compliance with payment schedules in order to avoid the carry-overs from year to year that may weigh heavily on Member States' contributions, as will be the case, for example, in 2018, with an additional half a billion euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u26	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I take this opportunity to say that I am proud that our Budget Minister is a woman. It's important. In fact, it is usually women who hold the cordon of the household purse, which they do, in general, much better than men. To return to the problem of the European budget, it is clear that the difficulty of the exercise is still somewhat the same since this budget depends, in a way, on the good will of the States. In my view, one day there will have to be a European tax which must not be added, but rather replace other national or regional taxes. The problem lies in the fact that the challenges are significant. In particular, a Europe of defence will have to be achieved, as has been mentioned in the Defence Committee. To that end, budgets will have to be made available and resources mobilized. But we're still a long way from it. We are just witnessing an attempt to coordinate the arms industry. And again, with the helicopters, it doesn't work so well!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u27	Mr Flahaux, I quite agree with your analysis. I think that, in the European problem which is very broad and which is not limited to the budgetary aspect alone, there is sometimes a difficulty experienced by the Member States. Indeed, when a level of budget is decided, the level of contribution is therefore affected by this level of budget and it is the Member State which must levy the tax in order to contribute to this European budget. There is therefore a kind of distancing between the European budget, as decided and then used, and the final citizen to whom the contribution is requested. Indeed, in my view, this whole mechanism of the European Union's own resources – this is a very interesting debate because it calls for the democratic process, as it really exists – has only an interest in a broad framework of rights and obligations. This means that if we decide to increase a budget, it is a right to fulfil certain obligations, duties or imperatives. But there, too, there is an obligation to bear the consequences to the Lambda citizen who pays his taxes. It is this dynamic, this relationship between "I am spending and therefore I have the responsibility to raise the tax directly, because that is why I am liable to explain to the society for which I perceive money", which means that there will be a greater match between European policies and citizens, because they will know why they are paying. But it's not just that; we can have a long debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u28	Minister, I fully agree. So I have no discordant comment to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u29	Mr President, this question is even older than the previous one, since it dates from 16 November - but I will not go further! Minister, on 15 November 2017, the European Budget Committee, established two years ago, issued its first report. Since the strengthening of European budgetary procedures following the 2008 crisis, they have become so complex that the European Union has set up the Budget Committee, an independent advisory body, to help Member States follow the various procedures imposed by the Union more easily. According to Niels Thygesen, the Danish economist who supervised the work of this report and who scrutinized the application of budgetary procedures in 2016, the latter proved to be imperfect. Furthermore, it considers that the enforcement of certain rules by Member States is unfair. Minister, what is your analysis of this report? Are you in favour of establishing a centralised budgetary structure, led by a Finance Minister common to all Member States? It seems to me that this concern is in line with President Macron's proposal. What position has Belgium taken with regard to the creation of a stabilising envelope, which has been presented as a path to be explored in the report of the European Budget Committee? How do you analyse the other solution proposed in this report, namely the introduction of a common unemployment insurance net, which would cushion crises? Would Belgium be in favour of this? This is another great debate that I am opening, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u30	Mr Flahaux, the report to which you refer is indeed an interesting means of information, as it provides a complementary insight into the ex post evaluation of the development of the European budgetary framework by focusing on the monitoring cycle 15-16. Through the proposals presented, this report also opens the debate on the applicability of the existing European rules and their possible adaptation. In this respect, some recommendations - such as simplifying European budgetary rules or clearer definition of clauses allowing deviation - seem interesting to me. The principle of greater integration between the Stability and Growth Pact and the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances also seems to me to be a path to be explored - even if only in terms of timing. As we receive reports at regular intervals, it is sometimes difficult to manage the information that is transmitted. On the other hand, with regard to tighter budgetary rules and greater automaticity of the latter, I remain more mixed in that the analysis of the budgetary situation must take account of all the factors, which are called the relevant factors. That is indeed what the Commission is doing. It takes account of these factors in case of deviation from the theoretical budget path. In this context, the question also arises as to the basis on which, and when, any rules and sanctions should be applied. Why? Because if all this happens ex ante, even before the budget is spent, we can see, for example, in recent years, the significant differences with the ex-ante evaluations of the European Commission and the implementation on the ground. You understand that if, on an ex ante basis, the Commission could apply corrective measures or even sanctions more easily or automatically, it would have been difficult, whereas the reality on the ground was actually much better than what had been analysed by the European Commission. It has been explained several times but it remains difficult. I believe that it is probably necessary to rethink the European budgetary rules, but this must be done so as not to break the economic engine. In my view, it would be detrimental to growth if budgetary rules were to be applied too mechanically, especially if they were strengthened. With regard to the possible creation of a centralised budgetary structure with a finance minister common to all countries, this requires weighing the pros and cons and being able to identify all the consequences both at European level and at Member State level individually. In the end, we must also ask ourselves the question of the added value for citizens of the possible establishment of a centralised budgetary structure. This is the main issue of the measure. I think that in every reform that needs to be considered at European level, it is not the institution that needs to be improved, it is the added value for the citizen, in particular, to bring the citizen-Europe relationship back into a positive dynamic, something that sometimes seems to be losing, unfortunately, for the moment. With regard to the creation of a macroeconomic stabilization function within the euro area, the principle seems to me to be defensible, but the modalities must also require further analysis. Should this be achieved through a European budgetary union, an investment support mechanism, the introduction of euro area or unemployment insurance insurance, as has been proposed? To answer these questions, we need further information, studies and analysis. Although the Budget Committee's report is an information tool and remains interesting, it does not at this stage provide a clear response to the proposed arrangements. However, we know that this is what can generate agreements or disagreements outside of questions of principle. For example, with regard to the principle of the introduction of unemployment insurance at European level, the report does not specify the conditions for the efficient use of the system, such as full harmonisation of the labour market, contribution arrangements, etc. These questions are exciting and, as it looks like nothing, have or will have significant impacts for each Member State. Like you, I care about this subject and I will continue to follow it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u31	Minister, I will have the opportunity to come back to the matter here or in other forums.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u32	Madam Secretary, I had addressed this question to the Minister of Finance, but she was referred to you. I expect the answer to be at least as good. At the end of 2016, the Court of Auditors concluded in its annual report that the government paid 30% of its invoices late. This resulted in 900 000 euros of interest for the year 2015. However, it was now found that the federal administrations that paid interest only if explicitly requested by the suppliers, although those interest rates are due automatically and should therefore be paid spontaneously. The Minister of Finance then stated that he would adapt the computer system and examine the automatic payment of interest. I would therefore like to ask you about the state of play at the beginning of 2018. What about this? Does it happen automatically now? What are the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u33	Mr Klaps, the federal administrations are effectively paying part of their invoices too late. In concrete terms, the figures of the Fedcom system, the federal ERP application, show that the late invoices for the financial year 2016 represented 28.5 % and 1.2 %. The sometimes not streamlined application of accounting documents, in accordance with best practice and the ERP standard, is at the root of the problem raised. In order to improve this, best practices are highlighted, including the scanning of the accounting documents received, their electronic invoicing and their electronic processing under the supervision of the financial controllers of the public administration concerned. In particular, the question is referred to the rules on public procurement. This shows that the delay remains must be paid automatically and without notice of default. Nevertheless, the fact that this is not called into question also means that we must apply the law on accounting and the principles of regular accounting, which means that any booking must be made on the basis of an evidence-based and day-to-day accounting document, which reflects the nature and impact of the operation. My administration draws my attention to the fact that, on the basis of these elements, it is found that the automation of the mentioned rules on negligence in the ERP system cannot be introduced without violating the test of accountability and creating internal audit problems in respect of supplier accounts. The balance should therefore be included in the accounts on the basis of specific evidence-based and regularly drawn up debt regulations. Therefore, no specific adjustment will be made to the current ERP accounting system to automate this regulation. It is up to the financial managers of each service to keep their accounts, in accordance with existing law and regulations, including the law of 22 May 2003 on the accounting of the federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u34	Madam Secretary, if it can't be done automatically, are there any reasons? I'm just asking it to happen. Each service must ensure that this is done correctly. Recently, a study was published by Graydon, which highlighted the enormous delay in payment, both from private companies and from the various governments in this country. The federal government is not the worst performing government in this respect. However, the problem is there. Late payments can trigger a very negative chain. People regularly get distress signals from the construction sector, but also from other sectors, where it really leads to bankruptcy. I have therefore tabled a legislative proposal to shorten those payment deadlines. There is also a resolution ready for pressure in Parliament to call on the government to report to Parliament by department. For example, all public services will continue to focus on this internally, which will hopefully lead to greater performance. I hope to have an exchange of views with you shortly on the content of those texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u35	Question No 21479 by Mr Dispa has been converted into a written question. I had already announced that it had been deleted, but I have just been informed by telephone that it has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u36	Madam Minister, in the 1990s the then budget ministers Herman Van Rompuy and Johan Vande Lanotte always gave a press conference on the results of the budget in the second week of January. If those were good, of course. In recent years, there has not always been reason to communicate these results so quickly. In the press releases of 10 January, we read that the budget deficit in 2015 was nominally 3.2 %, in 2016 2.5 %, and in 2017 it would even have fallen to less than 1.2 %. That figure has just been mentioned. In the press, a number of ministers and party chairmen stated that the balance is in sight. A few months ago, the National Bank and the European Commission expected the deficit to rise again to 1.5 % in 2018, including as a result of the unfunded tax shift. They also expected that the company's advance payments would be lower than in 2017. Consequently, the deficit would rise again to 1,5%. This was contradicted by you during the budget negotiations. My question is what is the current situation, nominal and structural. Can we remain optimistic in that the deficit will fall further in 2018? The government has not yet really released the idea of a budget in balance in 2019. What efforts should be made in this regard? Is this about less than 4 billion? A few months ago, the National Bank was talking about 6 billion. In view of the favourable evolution in 2017, that amount would now be lower. In short, Madam Secretary, what is the situation now? Of course, the final statement will take a long time, but what are the expectations of the 2017, 2018 and 2019 budget at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u37	Thank you, Mr Van Rompuy, for your question. I have already told you that we are still working on the figures for 2017. In a few days, hopefully tomorrow, I expect the new figures from the FOD BOSA. As I said in an answer to a previous question, the FOD BOSA recalculated the nominal balance in November 2017. Instead of a deficit of 1.48 % at the time, i.e. in 2017, registered for the initial 2018 budget, the nominal deficit would now be 1.2 %. Indeed, in January, some messages were published that predicted a deterioration compared to the good results of 2017. If the deficit of 1.2 % for 2017 is confirmed, this is a very good result. There is nothing to prevent the result from being even better, but I cannot tell you that today because I do not know yet. With 1.2 %, we would be very happy. As you said, the evolution of the deficit for 2018 is expected to be worse. This applies to an unchanged policy, and without taking into account the actualization that will happen. The result can always fluctuate. In short, your question comes a few days or maybe a few hours too early, and I'm sorry I can't answer them yet. What we absolutely must bear in mind is that there will probably be a very good result by 2017, but we cannot deny that the 2018-2019 trajectory will require more efforts. The work isn't done. That is the political message to be given. There will be no balance without efforts with a deteriorating path and a unchanged policy. I also note, however, that the balance cannot be a fetish for me. If we achieve a balance, that is all the better. However, the path we have taken, taking into account the attacks, the crisis, the reform, the tax shift and all the work that has been done to re-green the parameters, is the most important point of our work. In 2017, we achieved good results again, but we cannot rest on our laurels yet. We will therefore have to work every day, until the end of the legislative term, which runs until 2019, on the reform of the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u38	Madam Secretary, will you hold a press conference in a few days' time or how will we be informed? After all, that is very important. The press referred to quarterly statistics a few days ago. In the third quarter, growth would be only 0.3 %. We were in contact with the National Bank, which informed us that it was premature to make predictions before 2017. It would therefore be good, should you quantify this, so that we know where we stand, also for 2018-2019. In political circles, however, there is a cry for help and there is a statement that the balance is in sight, but it is very dangerous if politicians, I am not going to mention names, are beginning to tweet that the balance of the budget is within reach. Parliament, which finally approves the budget, must know what the outcome is. In fact, the next Committee on Finance and the Budget should communicate about the current situation. You yourself point out that you do not have the figures yet, so this is not a criticism of you, but Parliament should be better informed, not by press articles and tweets from politicians, because in the end no one knows what is happening. It is clear that there was a favourable evolution in 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u39	I fully agree with that. I would never send the tweet that a balance à portée is the main. The people here know how a budget can evolve. It is true that growth will help us and that certainly also applies to job creation. So, as the Minister for the Budget, I would never say that a balance is within reach. The members of this committee know the budgetary path and know that it is deteriorating under unchanged policies. Of course, it is not intended to deteriorate, but this is the case in the case of unchanged policies. What form will this take? I'm not a fan of press conferences. This is simply about the figures, nominal and structural, point on the line. There must certainly be attention to two points. First of all, achieve good results. However, the statements of certain persons, if it would be un budget base sur du sable, or une situation catastrophique, give us a bad image. We must therefore show that this is not the case. Secondly, we must point out that there is still a great deal of work to be done. So the work is done, and I am sure you will agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-01-31-54-commissie-ic806x.u40	That concludes our agenda. Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers.
