ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u2	Mr President, Minister Peeters, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate Prime Minister Michel on his much-needed initiative to tackle the acute labour shortages in our labour market through the Consultative Committee. However, that intention must not be lost in a talk barracks, since it is not five but two to twelve, which apparently has not yet penetrated all parts of the country. I would like to make two points. Firstly, the regional figures clearly indicate in an almost painful way that we live in a two-way country. For the unemployment rate of 20-64 year olds, the European average is 5.8 %. In Flanders it is 3.2 % and in Wallonia and Brussels it is 6.7 % and 10.6 % respectively. For the efficacy level, the European average is 72.1 %. In Flanders, that is 73 %. Flanders scores very well in that respect. Here, too, Wallonia and Brussels are lagging behind with 63.2 % and 60.8 % respectively. So both Brussels and Wallonia will have to add a serious tooth. Fortunately, we are pleased to note that the Walloon Prime Minister, Mr Borsus, has come to the conclusion that a different labour market policy is necessary in Wallonia. Secondly, with regard to the state of the labour market, the so-called job vacancy rate rose from 2.9 % to 3.4 % over a year. In this respect, we are the second worst pupil in Europe. That's very bizarre. The worrying thing is that there is no shortage of potential candidates. In Belgium, at the same time, persistent unemployment persists. The National Bank's June economic projections predict delayed annual job growth for 2019 and 2020, a stagnation of the unemployment rate at 6.7% and an employment rate of 70%. The main reasons for declining job growth are slightly declining economic growth of 1.4 %, a shortage of workers to fill the jobs, and the expected wage growth after years of wage moderation. This will clearly have a negative impact on the future budget. Mr Minister, will you, first of all, with the Prime Minister, use your moral authority discreetly to suggest to Wallonia and Brussels that the Flemish blueprint for labour market policy should be applied? The Flemish method turns out to be very fruitful. Secondly, will you, together with the Prime Minister, ensure that the government, and you in particular, implement the commitments made by the government agreement without delay, if necessary without waiting for social dialogue? Thirdly and finally, what is the possible impact of declining employment growth on the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u3	Mr Van der Donkt, it was announced that your question would be about the work deal and the budgetary impact, but you did not discuss it. (Protests from Mr Van der Donkt) Well, that slipped my mind. In any case, that was not mentioned in your three questions. Firstly, it is clear that we are doing everything we can to tackle labour shortages. For the sake of clarity, these are job seekers and workers who do not have the skills to deal with the open vacancies. The Prime Minister has rightly stated that it is not just a matter for the federal level, but that the activation, further stimulation and training of the necessary skills are regional issues. That is why the employment deal is not limited to the federal level, but also applies to the regions. Secondly, it is true that Flanders is faced with challenges other than Wallonia. Flanders has a lower unemployment rate and a higher level of activity. This is an opportunity to ensure that the open vacancies in Flanders, which are numerous, are filled out as quickly as possible. The fact that the debate should be conducted not only at federal level but also at regional level also has to do with the fact that, with respect for the division of powers of everyone, federal government and regional governments, greater labour mobility must be achieved in Brussels and Wallonia, which can solve a number of challenges that Flanders also faces. We must work together to fill the number of open vacancies and reduce the number of unemployed, taking into account this fact, as you have done in figures. With all the measures proposed, we hope to match those who do not have the necessary skills and competences as soon as possible with the vacancies. This has nothing to do with reducing unemployment over time and other proposals far from that objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u4	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. However, it is not entirely satisfactory. A number of labour market specialists call for more decentralised consultation. That leads me to conclude that, in this dossier too, the Community two-way country, which you are trying to cycle around, is showing up and that there is a need for further defederalisation in this area. This is of course a matter for the future, but in the meantime our companies are waiting for suitable workers. So there is an urgent need for federal action. Besides the adage jobs, jobs, jobs I want to launch another mantra, namely action, action, action. The N-VA calls for the accelerated implementation of the measures contained in the government agreement to reform and modernise our labour market and to get people, people, people to work. I would like to stress once again the importance of the measures to fill open vacancies. Minister, we must not allow ourselves to be hindered in the reform by too much government spaver and by the inertia of the social partners. It's not the unions that govern this country, it's you and your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u5	Minister, as the Prime Minister is absent, I would like to ask you this question because you are competent for the Group of 10. It seems to us that the right to strike is widely threatened in our country. The right to strike is being put under increasing pressure. I would like to know what the government wants to do with the Group of Ten. We heard two days ago that the Prime Minister asked the Group of Ten to come back to the table on the gentlemen's agreement on the right to strike. What are the intentions of the government, minister? We have seen in the press today the statistics of the social reactions of recent years. With 12.2 days of strike by 1,000 workers, you are one of the governments that has suffered the most social resistance. 12.2 days of strike per 1 000 workers in our country is a lot, but it is also very logical in view of the laws adopted by the majority, but for which it had no democratic capacity at all, such as working up to 67 years, the index jump, the hunt for long-term sick. All these things were not in any party program, and so there is, of course, a social response. 12.2 days strike is a lot. In the past 25 years, only the Dehaene government has done better, with 13.1 days of strike, so a little more antisocial. You should do better, Minister. In this context, I wonder why you want to intervene now in order to limit the right to strike even further. The right to strike is put under pressure. We have more and more testimonies in this direction, whether in the prison officers, with a requisition at the key; the railwaymen, with the minimum service. There is the case around Case New Holland with a penalty payment of 2 500 euros, because the management has decided to replace the employees with managers, which has been completely prohibited for over 100 years. Tomorrow there will be the end of the process of two union activists, Mr Verlaeckt and Mr Devoght, who risk six months in prison because they are manning a strike missile. This is indeed a very serious context, in which the right to strike is increasingly placed under pressure. Minister, in your government, do you intend to put pressure on the right to strike again, or are you going to defend this right to strike, which is a fundamental right in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u6	Mr Hedebouw, for the record, the right to strike cannot and will not be touched. This is also evident in international conventions, the International Labour Organization and others, so don't worry about it. As you know, in 2002, we concluded a gentlemen's agreement in the Group of Ten - and I say this because I was still part of it - where the social partners themselves concluded a number of agreements and listed elements to ensure that a strike takes place in a good and proper way. We asked a while ago to update and modernise that gentlemen's agreement. There have been cases in the past, accidents, discussions which show that it is high time to review the gentlemen's agreement after 15 or 16 years. The Prime Minister, at the request of the Government, wrote a letter explaining to the Group of Ten - and I understand that you have very close contacts with some of them - to put that gentlemen's agreement back on the table and let it be known as soon as possible, before the end of September, whether the Group of Ten is in a position to modernise that gentlemen's agreement. I hope that they will be able to do the same, because I am convinced that incidents of strikes are best dealt with by the social partners themselves and that the legislator should not intervene with all the consequences, even if we have to organise international legislative work in this area. I hope that the Group of Ten and the social partners will be able to modernise that gentlemen's agreement during the holiday period, a quieter period. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that the workers are not prevented from accessing the company. In the near past, we have found that there are problems with this. In conclusion, first of all, the right to strike is not called into question. Secondly, the Prime Minister asked the Group of Ten to look at the gentlemen's agreement. A timing has been set until the end of September to give them time. I hope they can do this. It would be a good thing for everyone, first of all for the social partners, secondly for the workers but also for this semi-round, if the social partners themselves were to modernise that gentlemen's agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u7	Mr. Secretary, it's always the same. The right to strike is not affected unless it is used. That's kind of the problem. We're completely undermining the right to strike. We're really completely emptying the right to strike out of its substance. The right to strike is not a problem, except when there is a strike. That is where the problem lies, Minister. There are attacks. There is the minimum service at the level of prison officers; there is the minimum service at the level of the railways. Politics is increasingly involved in the issue of the right to strike. And you're a judge and you're gone. Indeed, these strikes are often organized to challenge the political measures you are taking and for which – I repeat – you have no democratic legitimacy. These measures are not included in any of your programs. No one voted for these antisocial measures. You are pointing at not a modernization of the right to strike, but a reversal of the right to strike. All your measures run counter to the collective right to strike that you want to reduce to an individual right. Strike pickets are obviously the expression of a collective right. Today, employees, railway workers must strike individually. There is no longer a collective strike. This right to strike is now under attack in Belgium. Minister, I hope that in the weeks and months to come you will not accelerate these attacks to break the social resistance. Be sure that the workers will not let themselves be done!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u8	As Mrs Cassart was stuck in the traffic jams, Mr Friart would ask the question in his place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u9	Mr President, thank you. Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after the strikes, the balances. In a few days, in fact, the Belgians will be on the lookout for good deals. Many of them will visit online shopping sites, which is not without risks. This is how Test-Achats recently exposed 800 fake shops on the internet. However, this is only the tip of the iceberg, as analysts estimate the number of icebergs to be more than 700,000 worldwide. In addition, 11,000 of them would use an ".be" extension. Cybercriminals buy domain names without owners and then set up online shops. From a few brand logos and eye-catching photos, they offer clothing or other items at attractive prices. In some cases, the consumer will receive a counterfeit product; in others, nothing at all. Their data can even be used for identity usurpations. Deputy Prime Minister, these are my questions. The extension ".be" represents for the Belgian consumer the guarantee of an economic activity developed from the national territory. However, the acquisition of a domain name can be practiced from anywhere in the world. Test-Achats proposes to address the problem as soon as the domain name is registered, by controlling the contact details much more strictly. What do you think of this proposal? What other solution is possible? Next, among the reporting tools, one can mention the point of contact SPF Economy. How many websites have been closed as a result of complaints under this method in recent months? How do you assess its effectiveness? Could any improvements be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u10	Mr President, I should like to interrupt you on a matter of procedural compliance. I have no problem with Mr Friart asking his question instead of Mrs Cassart. This can happen to everyone. However, the question arose for our group some time ago. We were denied the opportunity on the ground of compliance with the Rules. I simply ask that this be discussed again in the Conference of Presidents next week, because my request is simply that there be no double standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u11	That will be the case, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u12	Mr President, I would like to make it clear that my question has been tabled on my own behalf. I am carrying out what is on the agenda. The traffic jams on the motorway are the same for Mrs Cassart as for me and, moreover, I come from further. Minister, following a census carried out by Test-Achats, it appears that there are about 800 fake online shops dealing with an extension of domain ".be". These domain names have been abandoned by their original owner and are subsequently bought by cyber criminals often from Eastern Europe or China, who want to offer themselves a facade of respectable appearance to fool consumers in Western Europe. Then, they dress up the websites so hosted in order to give them the appearance of a respectable business activity and add them to a payment module. In some cases, customers receive a counterfeit of the purchased product and in others, they receive nothing at all. However, the problem is broader than that mentioned, since these shops are often hosted by foreign and international domain names. In addition, consumers are often affected by advertisements published on respectable sites such as social networks or news sites whose monetization of advertising spaces is business. In addition, these sponsored content are targeted to reach an audience that could more easily fall into the panel, i.e., a more vulnerable audience. Minister, for scams from registered domain names in Belgium, do you intend to strengthen legislation on pre-registration control? For domain names registered abroad, what are your levers of action to be able to block these names? Have you, for example, approached the European Consumer Centre (ECC)? What is the responsibility of the owners of websites or other Internet platforms selling advertising spaces? Finally, Mr.Minister, there are a number of consumers in the back of the house who are rolled in flour, blurred. What are their remedies in the face of the lack of results related to their purchase and the guarantee on the product supplied?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u13	Mr President, Mr Friart, Mr de Lamotte, ladies and gentlemen, Test-Achats sent me a letter following her investigation into online shops. Periodic meetings with this consumer association are held. At the last meeting on 31 May, this issue was addressed. We asked Test-Achats to provide the Economic Inspectorate with its findings in addition to the list of relevant websites. According to my information, Test-Achats did not provide any information other than the list. I can at any rate confirm that the Inspectorate will monitor the sites concerned and take the necessary action. She's doing it. I would point out that such checks are carried out continuously by the "Watch on the Internet" unit of the Economic Inspectorate. Thus, to answer Mr Friart's specific question last year, it blocked some 3,600 sites with a domain name ".be" or ".eu". These figures place Belgium at the top of the European peloton with regard to the fight against fraudulent websites. It goes without saying that, for these controls, business and consumer alerts are important. The list provided by Test-Achats will therefore certainly be useful in the context of the controls. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the fight against fraudulent websites is one of the priorities of the Economic Inspectorate and one of mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u14	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer. It is important to learn that there have already been so many checks carried out and above all with great success. At a time when sales will begin and consumers will want to do good business, it is important to raise awareness. I urge you to continue this work and to continue the fight against the sites that we need to remove.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u15	Minister, I can hear your answers and the numbers you're talking about. However, the question was whether you were going to strengthen the means of action to combat these scam sites. I am still waiting for the answer to this question, including about sites of international origin. Are you going to take a positive step towards the European Consumer Centre? I do not have an answer to this question or to the question on the liability of the people who, unfortunately, have used these sites and on the guarantee to which the blurred consumer could claim. Would it not be time to take a series of positive steps and implement actions in this area? There are consumers who don't get what they ordered and it's really problematic. You have not announced any action in this direction, and I would like you to move to a higher speed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u16	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the World Cup is also living on the gambling websites. Every day 125 000 Belgians spend money on online betting and more than 8 000 new players register every day. The online gambling industry thrives like never before. She makes billions of profits, but as with the debt industry, it often happens on the hood of people in misery. Examples of people starting with 2 euros a day and ending with 300 euros a day are no exception. Online gambling is not without consequences. The players rarely win. We must protect people, especially children and young people, from this. The best way is to ban advertising for online gambling. After all, many people are encouraged by this advertising to gamble. Today we are flooded with advertising for gambling. Many people are annoyed by it, but unfortunately many are tempted by it. We therefore propose that there should be a total ban on advertising online gambling. To this end, we have already submitted a legislative proposal to you in the spring. We are pleased that our legislative proposal is getting more and more support. Mr Minister, today you have also launched a video with proposals to restrict gambling advertising. You dress up in that as a football coach. That can count. Movies are sympathetic, but as politicians we have been elected to conduct policies and pass laws. Minister, what exactly are you proposing to prevent gambling advertising? Do you support our proposal for a total ban on advertising online gambling? When will you submit your proposal to Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u17	Minister, my grandmother always said, "I won a lot of money by never playing the Lotto." That is, of course, a truth like a cow, because in the end the gambling industry wins, not the Germans. According to a recent study, 5.3 billion euros will go to the gambling industry, to the private players. That is money from the pockets of very young and vulnerable players, who go through both psychologically and financially. You're doing a lot of work. The problem is clearly very much to your heart. That is indeed clear from the video that was launched today. You're trying to act against three unhealthy tendencies. First of all, gambling has become a child's play. One in five minors already participated in sports betting. You have already heard the figures from Mr Lambrecht. It's running out of spigates. That's all the more insane and criminal because a young brain is much more addictive than an adult brain. It is quite clear that there is nothing to gain for young people by playing games of chance. Their chances are just being taken away, both psychologically and financially. Secondly, advertising is becoming increasingly aggressive and challenging people to dare to play, because otherwise they are not a real player. There are also bonuses and unlimited gaming limits to feed the gambling addiction, 24 hours a day. Sports and media are in the grip of the gambling industry, to the extent that gamblers are actually paying for the sport with all that advertising and sponsorship. Thirdly, the Gaming Commission is both poacher and ranger. The question is, of course, whether it is sufficiently equipped to protect the players, both in terms of its operation and job implementation. You do a lot of things. You have a lot of initiatives. My question is very simple. What initiatives are still under way to reduce gambling addiction and protect the gamblers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u18	Minister, today is a happy day, as our Red Devils will fight England tonight and whether or not they will win. We'll see about that tonight. It will probably also bring a lot of people to take a chance on it. For me, it is not a problem in itself that someone who has sufficient resources would want to do so, but, as several colleagues have just said, we must protect those who have a little more financial difficulty. People can also find themselves in a particular situation where they are tempted to bet on bets and thus put themselves in trouble. I myself am OCMW chairman in my congregation and it is sometimes poignant to see how some people fall into that trap and get into trouble. As a result of the football World Cup, the question is asked whether advertising of gambling should be used during the games, which include children, young people and people without adequate financial resources, which we do not really want to encourage. You have a draft ready, Minister: On 1 June 2018, the Council of Ministers approved a draft that restricts the advertising of sports games at certain activities. I have two specific questions about this. We are now discussing the Red Devils and the fact that public broadcasting allows gambling advertising before and after games, but also in the traditional football competition and other sports competitions we see that advertising all year round. Does your design offer an answer to that? Finally, very interesting to know, what is your pronostic for tonight?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your very interesting questions, to which I will not always answer. First of all, I must disappoint you. For me, there is no football match between Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels in that respect. I will not comment on other regions and federated entities in this country; that would be too much fun. I'm not gonna be a part of that. Secondly, it is clear to me that young people are the great victims of gambling. More than half of the players are under 30 years of age and usually over 18 years of age. It is an addiction, which, as far as I can judge, is more expensive and presents more financial risks than most other addictions. What have I done already? We have regulated the virtual games of chance. It's about footballers who aren't real. We have also reduced the number of gambling offices to 600. In the future, municipalities will be able to determine how far a gambling office should be from the centre, for example. It's in a future law. However, the gambling office restriction already exists. As far as prevention is concerned, we are at the stage of the drafts before the Council of State for its opinion. There are three points for advertising: no advertising during the match, no 15 minutes before and after the match, and no young people's shirts. There is also EPIS, the system whereby vulnerable players are excluded on the basis of the identity card or where people can exclude themselves. This system will be applied not only virtually but also when accessing gambling offices. The gambling limit is 500 euros per week. I think that's a lot, but some say that's far too little. We will give the Gaming Commission the opportunity to impose far more sanctions. I am in favour of Mrs Van Hoof's proposal to initiate intense cooperation with the aid sector. Mrs Lambrecht, the best is, of course, the enemy of good. You have come to tell me that I have to conduct policy and that I have to get laws passed, which is usually not so bad, I think. The draft laws and royal decrees should come in the autumn. It has not been easy to get texts on paper by consensus between all those involved. However, an overall advertising ban does not seem to me to be for tomorrow. If you are the Minister of Justice yourself, you would know that such a ban is quite difficult to achieve. I am not saying that I could not defend that, I am just saying that I do not think that this is realistic. I'd love to hear you say it, but it's a little easy to throw that up just today. Everyone agrees to that today, but tomorrow may not be the case anymore. Moreover, your party's ministers have also been responsible for matters that were not far from the Lottery. I hope that we will be able to make progress with these measures and avoid the loss of important sums for vulnerable people. I'm always willing to think further, but we've gotten as far as we could. I very much hope that the Communities, the Council of State, the Constitutional Court, and anyone who has to deal with this type of matter in Belgium, will be able to agree to it. After all, the Belgian distribution scheme is always an imbroglio.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u20	Minister, my reply should now be that I am really pleased that you support our proposal to ban advertising for online gambling. I see that you support our proposal and I would be pleased if this were to be brought to a successful conclusion. We want to go a long way in this respect. You say this is difficult, but as you may know by now, my slogan is: difficult goes too. Given the subject matter, it can certainly go further for us, even to a total ban on the terrible advertising of online gambling. We shall continue to do so in the hope that the spirits will ripen after a while. Your proposals are a first step, Minister. You launched a nice video today. However, the truth is that on 29 June 2016, you distributed a press release following the European Championship. I brought it. In it, you launched exactly the same proposals. In the meantime, it's two years later. Two years later, the rules have still not been amended. Two years later, those laws have still not been passed. What are we waiting for? Apparently, we have to wait until autumn. I hope something happens. It is really time for action, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your efforts, both in terms of prevention and protection of players and in terms of advertising. You are clearly going much further than previous ministers. Mrs Lambrecht, there are still procedures to be followed. We still have to wait for the Council of State. I am sure, as the video clearly shows, that the Minister wants to act quickly. I hope you will do the same in Parliament in the autumn. When I submitted my legislative proposals on increasing age to online gambling to 21 years and involving the addiction sector in the Gambling Commission, I got a phone call from an addicted gambler, father of two addicted children. He told me he had to barricade the door to his computer so he wouldn't have to play. I do not think that this man should barricade his door, but that we should put up barricades against this horrible gambling addiction and industry. We are counting on the Minister's support for these proposals. I am also counting on you to turn your authentic indignation into support for the legislative proposals, both from the Minister and ours.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u22	Minister, we know that a draft is coming that will be dealt with here in Parliament, as our colleague has said, after going through the procedure, including the Council of State. This draft does indeed represent a major step forward in this matter, although we will have to evaluate it even further. You have set out a fairly realistic vision: it will not be possible to ban at all. If we do not take a realistic approach, we will push the issue partly into illegality. We will have to evaluate how the new legislation will be dealt with in future at professional football matches. We will have to talk to the football clubs, because if we see 80% of the clubs sponsored by gambling companies, then we can ask questions, given the public that is active in them. We are in favour of the forthcoming draft and will support it in Parliament, but let us assess after a while whether the result is satisfactory. Thank you for your efforts. You have not been tempted into pronosticism, but I am not sure whether we should go for profit or loss. In any case, we are doing our best together here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u23	Madam Secretary, every day people die from smoking addiction and a smoker lives on average ten years less than a non-smoker. Lung cancer, addiction in young people, passive smoking for children, everyone knows the negative effects of smoking on health. As a government, we can do more. In April 2016, you first came out with an anti-smoking plan. I was finally thinking of a plan, and I was expecting measures very quickly. We are now two years ahead and only a few small measures have been taken. However, colleagues in Parliament agree across party boundaries on a number of measures, such as a ban on smoking in cars with children, a ban on cigarette vending machines in cafes, raising the minimum age of 16 to 18 years in order to reduce the speed of smoking and, above all, the introduction of the neutral cigarette package. Madam Minister, there is a very strong support in society to extend the smoking ban. The High Health Council, the Family Union, the Foundation against Cancer, Come on against Cancer and the citizen want a global and decisive approach. Only the tobacco industry is against it. Whose side is this government on? Madam Minister, I am aware of the measures you have already announced, and there is no need to list them. My specific question is why this government does not decide on the neutral packages and the more fundamental measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Dedry, thank you for your question. The tobacco plan, which was indeed adopted in April 2016, was discussed extensively on Tuesday 19 June in the Health Committee, where you were also present. The aim was to strengthen the anti-tobacco policy through various aspects. A first aspect is the restriction of supply, which transposes a European directive. We have already done some of that. A proposal on neutral tobacco packaging is on the government table. The reduction in demand and the increase in excise duties have also been implemented. We will increase access to alternatives to smoking cessation. In this context, there is a dossier in the Committee on Medicinal Products. Passive smokers are more protected by a significant strengthening of the control service; this has also been done. All these things happen to achieve our health objective, less than 18% smokers in our country. The Sciensano Health Survey will give us results on this at the end of this year. Now I go deeper into the neutral packaging. In the tobacco plan, we agreed to fill in three criteria. Firstly, we wanted to study the experience gained in England and France, where neutral packaging was introduced. Secondly, we organised a consultation with all the actors. Third, we're gonna follow up on pending court cases. After these three rounds, I submitted a concrete proposal to the government. I assume that a decision will follow in the near future. I note the great support for this measure in society and among the many health organisations. I would therefore like to give this measure as much success as possible. Because it is too important for public health, I do not participate in a round of muscle show and I will not give out any stitches to colleagues or other parties. I'm serious. Which side are you on? I am on the side of the patient, on the side of the people who want to stay healthy, and certainly not on the side of the tobacco lobby.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u25	Madam Minister, I am very pleased that you say that there is a proposal on neutral tobacco packaging on the government table. You know, however, that you must decide with this government very quickly. If you do not decide before the summer, you will not make it from 1 January. I'd like to give you that concern. If I were of evil will, I could see delays in it. However, I hear you say that there will be a decision in the near future. Well, if the neutral packaging is approved, I will be the very first to applaud.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u26	Minister, a few months ago, the Panama Papers Commission delivered its conclusions. These were greatly mitigated by the majority, apparently reluctant to respond ambitiously to the scandal. Remember: it was necessary to fight hard to turn this special commission into a commission of inquiry, in order to obtain more elements. Yet the majority refused to conclude that banks might be involved in the process, believing on word these bankers who came to swear their hands on the heart that they had done nothing. Minister, the revelations in the Panama Papers affair have not finished making them talk about. Indeed, journalists have highlighted that a branch of ING Belgium has been hosting accounts in offshore companies located in Panama and the Virgin Islands since 2007. Beyond lies before a parliamentary committee, it therefore seems that the responsibility of some intermediaries is no longer to be demonstrated. More generally, we believe that it is high time for the government to propose an action plan that would include the recommendations of the special commission, or even a more ambitious action plan than the recommendations. It is also time to empower intermediaries who help tax evasion and fraud. Minister, can you take stock of the situation of this bank, which seems to have facilitated fraud and escape. Do you confirm that the National Bank has begun an investigation into this matter? When will you resolve to empower unscrupulous financial intermediaries who put in place fraudulent mechanisms? More generally, what does the government do with the recommendations of the Panama Papers commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u27	Minister, once again, we had to wait for the press to point the finger at the reality of financial crime in our country. Fortunately, we can count, here in Belgium and elsewhere in the world, on journalists who are looking for and who find – journalists from Soir, Knack, members of the CIJ consortium – and who, month after month, show the reality of fraud. You just have to fight her. The fact that it is journalists who reveal this type of unbearable mechanism each time is symptomatic of the ineffectiveness of the policy pursued by this government, beyond the daily efforts of those responsible for the fight against fraud. It also says a lot about the responsibility of intermediaries, who are complicit in this fraud, whether they are banks, as is the case in this case, lawyers, consulting companies who are complicit in these arrangements, which make it possible to escape tax. When I asked ING officials at the Panama Papers Committee a few months ago about the economic reality of their subsidiaries in Switzerland, Luxembourg, their real usefulness, the fact that they were not serving as a passage to Panama, they assured us, with their hands on their hearts, that they were white as snow, that they were not eating from that bread. The reality is obviously very different and it cannot remain unanswered, Minister. Minister, when will this end? When are you going to give your services the human and legal means to effectively combat fraud? When will you implement all the recommendations of the 2009 Commission of Inquiry and the 2017 Panama Papers Commission? As regards ING in particular, are you going to give a clear signal to its leaders, as well as to all those who would be tempted tomorrow to do the same thing, as tax fraud, from now on in Belgium, will not go unpunished? That's our request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u28	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was also a member of the Panama Commission. As Georges Gilkinet and Stéphane Crusnière have already said, at the start of the work in that committee we asked the CEOs of the Belgian banks whether the practices at the time were also taking place during their mandate. Their answer was: wir haben and nicht kissed. They didn't know anything. Of course, they were new CEOs. However, it appears that ING Belgium has carried out money laundering operations over the last two years through a branch in Geneva. We have made a number of recommendations in committee. I do not want to have the political debate whether it went too far or not, but it is clear that Parliament is shocked by what has happened. We have met for almost a year and a half. The CEOs from KBC and Dexia, among others, have come to testify that such practices were behind us. My conclusion has always been that we cannot do enough about this at Belgian level and that the problem must be tackled internationally. Today there are already the mandatory exchange of information between the Member States, the partial removal of banking secrecy and the Swiss authorities are tackling money laundering, we see. But there is insufficient interaction between the local and international levels. Mr. Secretary, you've requested an investigation through the BBI. You also asked the National Bank to look into the matter. However, as a Member of Parliament, I feel completely frustrated. We have spent a year and a half investigating the Panama Papers. We have heard testimonies of top people from the financial world, who came to tell us: wir haben es nicht kissed. Now it's all coming up again. We must therefore follow not only the conclusions of the Panama Commission, but also at international level if we are ever to tackle the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u29	Mr Minister, the time has come again, a new episode of Panama Papers. Congratulations to the journalists. I sometimes get the impression that they have more power than the BBI. After all, in 2018 it is apparently possible for Antwerp diamondaires to make millions of loans via postbus constructions in the Virgin Islands, while all papers are being prepared here in Europe. It is Mossack Fonseca, however, the court supplier of the mailboxes, who called the alarm bell at the financial watchdog in the Virgin Islands. And what happened at the Antwerp ABN AMRO? They just let the loan go. The alarm bells are ringing in the Virgin Islands and in Antwerp there is no dirt in the air. Minister, the Antwerp diamond sector is a fraud-prone sector. We have approved a carat tax here, and I am in favour of it. I thought that was a smart tax. It was not a profit tax but a sales tax and it was the best choice at the time. The proceeds increased from 20 million to 68.4 million euros. That is a little less than you expected, namely EUR 70 million, but you were close this time. It is also an exception. I agreed with that exception, because it involved a lot of jobs. If we want to allow this exception, the rules of the game must be followed, Minister. Now we can say that the mailboxes stink. This smell appears to be so unbearable that the Belgian banks no longer want to help the diamondaires, at the risk of money laundering. ABN AMRO, however, went into the sea with the diamonds and their boat is apparently stranded on the Virgin Islands. We have to be honest. Who's been bullied here? That's the Fleming, who pays his taxes fairly. And those are also people with a mailbox, but at their front door and not in the Virgin Islands. What measures will you take to ensure fair taxation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, like you, I have read the new information revealed by the consortium of journalists concerning offshore constructions. I will not repeat all the measures that have been taken in this area, only the main ones: the extension of the investigation deadlines, the strengthening of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SII), the extension of the Central Contact Point (CCP), the introduction of the UBO register, the extension of the mechanisms of the Cayman tax and the reporting obligation for financial institutions. The reporting obligations of the banks are very important in this respect. Financial institutions are obliged to report their bonds and payments to tax havens. Financial institutions have an increased duty of vigilance when transactions between banks here and persons with branches in tax havens take place. Moreover, financial institutions must also provide the FPS Finance with an annual list of all their payments to tax havens. Of course, I am also referring here to the hearings in the Panama Papers Committee, in which financial institutions and the BBI were heard. I can only say to you today that I am also shocked by the fact that, euphemistically speaking, there is some contradiction between what has been said there and what is now, according to the newspaper articles, the reality. The fight against offshore constructions and "letterbox" companies is not new. The ISI is also working intensively on these files. With the administration, we are looking at how to strengthen this struggle, both operationally and through changes to the legal framework. As a result of this new information, in respect of which the administration does not have underlying documents to the extent that they have not been provided, the following steps have been taken. You've already mentioned it yourself. I have indeed asked the financial institutions concerned to provide me with more information than ING alone. I have asked the BBI with great urgency to open an investigation on the basis of the reports and to reach conclusions as soon as possible. In concrete terms, a preliminary investigation will be launched to check whether the statements launched in the press are correct. If that is the case, it will obviously have consequences. Third, the National Bank will also take steps to examine whether or not financial institutions have fulfilled all of their obligations. Colleagues, the competent authorities have instruments to deal with and examine the dossiers, as they unfortunately do today. We have developed and strengthened these instruments in recent years. This will not only lead to a thorough examination of post-factum files, but also to more and more proactive action, including through the reporting obligation of financial institutions. The control mechanisms are much more extensive than they used to be, and that is what we see in the results, both in open files and in effective collections, which the BBI can submit. We continue to fight against all forms of aggressive tax evasion as a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u31	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. At a time when small taxpayers complete their tax returns, calculate their taxes and measure with spite of the little effect of the tax shift, large taxpayers, large corporations continue to snore, snore the tax and snore. This is unacceptable! You say you are shocked, but you do not announce any plan on the basis of the minimalist recommendations that have been made. Minister, when are you going to take on your responsibilities and pursue a real policy to combat tax evasion? My group deeply regrets your Government's lack of ambition in this area. In addition, today we learn that tax officers lose the equivalent of 14 days of work due to the lack of technical means. By your inaction, you are strengthening this department, which is essential to the functioning of the State. Take your responsibilities once and for all! Empower tax officials to do their job and take effective measures to combat tax evasion!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u32	Mr President, Mr Minister, whatever you say about the fight against tax fraud and financial crime is still too late and too little. I give you three examples. Thus, first of all, the sanction for intermediaries who are complicit in fraud (recommendation of the 2009 commission) is still not implemented. Secondly, there is still nothing on the horizon regarding transparency, country-by-country reporting for multinationals (recommendation of the Panama Papers Commission). Thirdly, as far as the means of your administration are concerned, you spoke of the "tax haven" unit. This is about four people who have to check the economic reality of economic exchange for hundreds of billions of euros each year. Mr Minister, your efforts are insufficient in view of the reality of fraud, namely EUR 20 billion, or EUR 2 000 per Belgian per year. It's huge! These are the real transfers that are undermining our economy today. These are transfers between honest taxpayers who pay their taxes correctly (workers, SMEs and self-employed people) and all those who live at their expense (big fraudsters and their accomplices). We ask you to take much more proactive action and results. We will not be content with your speeches without deed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We support you in your actions. There have been many initiatives in this area in recent years, both internationally and also at Belgian level. The network is getting closer and closer, but people are still escaping, of course, because it is an international phenomenon. I'd like to make a proposal. The chairman of the Panama Commission, Mr Laaouej, is here. Personally, I think that we should challenge ING's leadership to come and answer, not in a committee of inquiry, but in our normal finance committee. The man who was then CEO of ING was also President of Febelfin. He's out of there now. If the bank has indeed been guilty of these practices for the last two years, so after we have started our work in the Panama Commission, I think we should call on the ING CEO in our committee to ask what is happening now, how can he, as a CEO, not know about this and whether he will not have any control over the branch in Geneva. They hide behind ING's parent office in the Netherlands. It cannot be that we are playing each other the ball and that Parliament must stand idly by. You were shocked, Minister. We're shocked, too. The work we have done in a year and a half must lead to the implementation of a number of recommendations. After all, a number of people in the financial sector continue to act irresponsiblely, after all that has happened in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is, of course, true that measures have been imposed on banks, for example on reporting obligations. However, the question is whether they apply them and respect the rules. It doesn't look like it. I also find it very shocking that such practices should be brought back to light by journalists and not by the competent authorities. If a bank is faced with fraud, it will, of course, jeopardise the stability of that bank. Then I wonder if we shouldn't do more. We see here that people dodging taxes and dodging. There is, of course, a large group which suffers from a tax burden of more than 50%. No one wants to pay a lot of taxes, and that pressure must be reduced, Minister. The pressure has to be further down and work has to be rewarded even more. An honest taxpayer must also be able to count on others to pay their taxes, that he is not the only one to pay for them. It is clear to us that anyone who does not want to pay taxes here does not have to live here either. If you want a mailbox on the Virgin Islands, I would advise you to build your dream house there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am pleased to speak in the wake of the debate on the ING affair and the revival of the problem of tax havens. This case raises not only important questions – and I agree with the committee chairman's proposal to hear from ING officials – but also the question of how public authorities can deal with these phenomena of tax evasion and fraud. Unfortunately, the figures speak for themselves in relation to the means and conditions under which FPS Finance officers work. There has been a free fall in the resources allocated to the FPS Finances. That is true at the staffing level. Between 2010 and 2016, the number of employees in the General Tax Administration (AG Fisc) decreased by 22%. Monitoring missions between 2014 and 2017 were halved, from 110,000 to 52,000 between 2014 and 2016, before resuming slightly in 2017. The revenue increases resulting from the controls are also in free fall: 5 billion in 2011 for 2.5 billion according to the latest figures available. The number of people actually assigned to controls is also decreasing, with less than 48% in five years. Minister, in your last policy note, you tried to hide this downsizing by claiming that it could be offset by better computerization, better organization and better processes. We can do better with less, kind of. Unfortunately, this is not the case. A new alarm signal has just been fired by the National Union of Public Services, a union which has conducted an investigation and which comes to the conclusion that in terms of information technology, one of the tools you were talking about earlier, minister, problems are accumulating (disruption problems, slowness, network capacity, lack of training), so that finally, it can be considered that 14 days of work per year and per agent are lost due to these computer problems. Minister, I would like to ask you about this alarm signal. How do you react to the computer problems we are talking about? How could you convince us that through computerization, you will manage to reduce the impact of staff reduction, if these problems are not resolved quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u36	Mr. Dispa, FPS Finance focuses on performance, efficiency and service to clients. To this end, many initiatives are being taken and applications are being developed both digitally and in a traditional way. The downsizing is indisputable. This process, launched years ago, focuses on efficiency gains. In view of the latest figures, its results are tangible. I repeat once again that it has been decided to replace one position with another in the control functions. To achieve efficiency gains, we also invested in the CTI. With regard to the results obtained, the review of 2,24 million returns resulted in a total amount of EUR 3,51 billion, based on an increase in undeclared income or income, which is still added after the statutory monitoring and taxation for failure to report. The performance of the audits conducted by the General Administration of Taxation has increased compared to 2016, from an average income increase of €1,314 to €1,569 in 2017 per file treated with personal tax. Let me make it clear again that the data do not even contain the figures of the ISI, which records record amounts, as you know. If we go back a little further in time, the controls carried out by the AG Fisc in 2013 resulted in revenue increases of a total amount of just over €7 billion and the recovery of €1.2 billion in VAT. Details of these figures can be found in the FPS Finance Annual Report. In 2017, the controls carried out by the AG Fisc resulted in a revenue increase of some 9 billion and a recovery of 922 million euros in VAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u37	Minister, thank you for your response. I have the feeling that, beyond the numbers, you pay for words when you say that FPS Finance acts for performance, efficiency and service to clients. All right! But honestly, I can't believe you can, as you claim, do better with less. At least we can see it. It can be seen through numbers and yields. As far as the best thing is concerned, he's not on the appointment. If I believe the analyses developed by the National Union of Public Services, it is on the contrary to phenomena of demotivation, less performance and unresolved problems that we have to face. I really wish you could hear that message. The Court of Auditors itself, in a recent report, had pointed out, on the issue of tax revenues and their estimation, that the FPS Finance study service was understaffed and that this was problematic. In this case, another source confirms unresolved problems. It seems to me that you have to take them at arm-to-body and stop paying you for words.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u38	Vielen Dank, Herr Präsident. Sehr geehrter Minister, dies ist in der Tat ein Thema, auf der ich Sie schon mehrmals – auch in den vergangenen Ausschüssen - angesprochen habe, nämlich die Notwendigkeit, auch die Informationbroschüren für die deutschsprachigen Steuerzahler rechtzeitig zur Verfügung zu stellen. Sie haben mir einmal ganz richtigerweise auch erklärt, dass die digitale Form bereits vorhanden ist. Leider ist es auch so, dass bei der Papierversion für manche Steuerzahler, die deutschsprachige Broschüre absolut vonnöten ist. Wenn man weiß, dass diese bereits seit Ende Mai in französischer und niederländischer Version vorlag, aber leider erst seit zwei Tagen für die deutschsprachigen Steuerzahler vorhanden ist, dann ist das natürlich ein Problem, Herr Minister. Ich denke, da werden Sie mit mir eins boin. Das erschwert natürlich auch die Pflicht, bis zum 30. bzw. 29. Juli possibleuel die Abgabe der Steuererklärung einzuhalten. Deswegen, was gedenken Sie zu tun? Loben Sie Besserung? Das hoffe ich sehr, weil immerhin, denke ich, ist das Steuergeld der deutschsprachigen Steuerzahler auch etwas wert. Danke.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u39	Is there anyone who can translate? Sehr geehrte Kollegin, aufgrund der Erfahrungen in der Finanzkommission weiß ich, dass ihnen die besonderen Empfindlichkeiten der deutschsprachigen Gemeinschaft sehr am Herzen liegen, und das nicht zu Unrecht. Ich selbst und meine Verwaltung teilen diese Bekümmernisse und tun all das Nötige, um Ihnen zu begegnen. Der Leitfaden zur Steuererklärung wird jährlich in den drei nationalen Sprachen verfasst. Was diesen Leitfaden zur Steuererklärung betrifft, kann ich Sie informieren, dass die Bediensteten die Anweisung haben, ihn denjenigen Bürgern zu übergeben, die in ihrem Büro danach fragen. Eine Besonderheit für Büros, wo deutschsprachiger Publikumsverkehr herrscht, ist die folgende: die Bediensteten drücken den Leitfaden vor Ort aus und übergeben ihn Interessenten vor Ort. Inzwischen ist auch der klassisch gedruckte Leitfaden verfügbar. So ist es seit dem 11. Juni für einen Bürger möglich, den Leitfaden auf Deutsch bei meiner Verwaltung zu erhalten. Ausserdem ist zu bemerken, dass in keiner der nationalen Sprachen mehr Unterlagen mit der Erklärung auf Papier verschickt werden. Ich erinnere daran, dass meine Verwaltung den Bürgern seit dem 3. Mai beträchtliche Mittel zur Verfügung stellt, um ihnen beim Ausfüllen ihrer Erklärung zu helfen. Alle Informationen befinden sich auf unserer Webseite Steuererklärung 2018. Angesichts des oben Dargelegten wird keine Fristverlängerung für die deutschsprachigen Steuerpflichtigen ins Auge gefasst. Die verschiedenen Regionen müssen in dieser Hinsicht tatsächlich auf dieselbe Weise behandelt werden. Bitte.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u40	Herr Minister, vielen Dank. Ihr Deutsch ist ausgezeichnet. Also mein Respekt! Leider ist es so, dass die Broschüren erst seit dem 25. Juni vorlagen, das heißt, dass es doch ein wenig knapp war. Ich höre aber, dass Sie auch Besserung geloben, und das auch in Zukunft noch weiterhin verbssern möchten. Ich möchte natürlich auch hervorheben, dass es in der Tat auch bei uns in der Region durchaus Möglichkeiten gibt, Hilfe beim Ausfüllen der Steuererklärung zu geben, das ist natürlich begrüßenswert, und ich danke Ihnen für Ihre Antwort. And thank you all for listening so well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u41	Mr Minister, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow there will be two strike days at the track. This is nothing new in itself, but it is still a historic moment for public transport in our country, because for the first time, the minimum service will start in practice. I've questioned you on that file several times, Minister. SNCB now communicates that about one in three trains will run. That is already a start, of course, because now the traveller knows at least which trains will run and which trains will not run. The N-VA has always said that the minimum service is a first and logical step, but we are a little more ambitious: rail traffic is crucial to us and the traveller must be able to rely on it blindly. One in three trains is therefore a start, but the bar can be set a bit higher. As far as the N-VA is concerned, it can therefore go a little further. There is a right to strike, but the right to work is at least as important to us. After all, it is perverse that students should cease their examination period for the umpteenth year in a row. One would start to think that this is being done purposefully. Many students have another exam tomorrow and depend on the train to get to their exams on time. It would be a shame if they missed their exam. Dear Socialist colleagues, it's your union that's on strike. I don't know if you've given any thought to the consequences of that. There is also a weekend in the strike, so camp transport is also in danger. Many youth associations are forced to find more expensive alternatives. Last year the PS and CDH in Parliament called for free camp transport by rail, but unfortunately this week we did not hear you when the youth associations complained that their camp transport was not guaranteed for Saturday. Unfortunately, for the umpteenth year in a row, they cannot rely on our SNCB. I therefore have a clear question for you, Minister. Are you satisfied with one on three trains driving or can it be a bit more ambitious for you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u42	Minister, for many months, since we have been discussing this minimum service law, you have been telling us that the great merit of this reform will be to "know". Passengers will know 24 hours in advance which train will run and which train will not run. You oppose this to the situation of a classic strike, in which no one knows anything. Minister, less than 24 hours from the first introduction of this minimum service, we realize that we don't know anything. This famous guaranteed service that you wanted to set up is not guaranteed. The beautiful promises you have made to us do not hold the road. On the other hand, Minister, we heard that some officers would be subject to pressure. They would be asked to double-service up to 16 hours, which runs counter to the most fundamental security measures. In the same way, it came back to us that some officers would be asked to perform tasks they are not used to. If that were the truth, you will admit, minister, that it is disturbing for rail safety. So I have four specific questions to ask you about this situation. You're talking about guaranteed service. Is this really a guaranteed service? How will passengers be able to prepare when SNCB itself tells them that they have to check themselves, until the last minute, whether or not the trains will run? Are there actual overtime requests from officers and can you assure us that there will be no overtime, especially in security duties? Finally, Minister, can you assure us that in these days of strike, safety will be ensured like any other day on the Belgian rail?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u43	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who wants to work must be able to work. Stop the dictation of the unwitting and clarity for the traveller who leads to work in the morning: he must be sure to get home in the evening as well. Among other things, those guidelines were important for Open Vld to submit a legislative proposal on guaranteed services more than ten years ago, in 2007. Before that, we have been on the barricades for more than ten years. In the autumn of last year, we were finally able to deal with and approve the draft law in the Infrastructure Committee. What I hear here today because of the opposition is exactly the same as when it was georaveled. It was already said that there would be hardly any trains, that people would be put under pressure, that staff would have to be requisitioned, that we were selling hot air and so on. Today we hear that very negative tone again. Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow there will be a halt and that, Minister, will be the baptism of fire for the guaranteed service. Mrs. Grovonius' union is on strike, but why? It may be important to mention that. There is a halt to the famous list of heavy-duty professions, which does not include all railway workers. There is actually a ceasefire against a ghost, because officially that list does not even exist. They say: on ne saitrien, they know nothing. Mrs Grovonius, since last night you can look at the timetable of the railway company that is online. The railroad company is ready. The traveller was informed in good time. The information shows that one in three trains would have to run tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. We believe that this is a good thing. Mr Minister, first of all, can the traveller trust 200 % that the on-line timetable and the announced trains will be effective, or is there still a risk? Secondly, can you confirm that safety is guaranteed and that there was no need to recruit staff? Thirdly, was maximum deployment of the equipment taken into account? Will there be as many double deckers as possible so that as many passengers as possible can be transported? Mr President, I would like to end by thanking all the staff who will be working tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and will ensure that the traveller reaches his or her destination.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the purpose of the guaranteed service is to organise a suitable transport plan and to inform each other about the days of strike. The government had instructed the management of the railways and the trade unions to conclude an agreement in the file. Following the failure of this consultation, which lasted more than two years, I took over the matter and our Parliament passed the law. The main objective is to allow passengers to know the situation on the rail in advance on strike days and to organise themselves accordingly, depending on the possible transport offer announced 24 hours in advance. The law provides that undertakings shall set up the adapted train service, an alternative transport plan taking into account the number of staff available, i.e. non-worker operational staff. This approach therefore respects the right to strike and the offer is assured, of course, with respect for all safety measures and the railway codex. The alternative transport plan shall determine which trains will operate on which lines and at which frequency they will operate. In order to organize this guaranteed service, the Act establishes a mechanism for declaration of intent prior to strikes for all staff members belonging to an operational occupational category considered essential and on their own. The risks of railway activity will be the usual risks. You know that yesterday and the day before yesterday, the trains had to be stopped at the North-Midi junction following the cartaging of a number of trains. This risk exists in the same way, whether it is a guaranteed day of service or not. Those categories of staff were determined by the railway undertakings. Finally, the law provides that the adapted transport plan shall be communicated not later than 24 hours before the start of the strike. The goal is that travellers can organize themselves. This first step has been taken: on the basis of the availability of so-called "essential" personnel for the trains to operate safely, SNCB announced its alternative transport plan yesterday at 10:00 p.m. For practical information, I invite you to consult the SNCB website and applications. Since last night, travellers know whether trains will be on their line and how often, whether they will be able to return home by train in the evening or whether they would prefer to ask for telework or take leave to avoid hassle. As we could expect, not all trains will run. This alternative transport plan must, as the spirit of the law implies, allow travellers to organize themselves. A person who has no choice but to go to work may consider the possibilities of using the train compared to other modes of transport. That is at the heart of our arrangement. The traveller can plan his or her journey. This will be the first time this mechanism has been implemented. The law provides for companies to evaluate the mechanism a posteriori, which will of course improve the process, communication and service to travellers. I will conclude by saying that the traveller, the worker, the commuter, the student must remain at the centre of our concerns when we analyze this mobility issue. The right to strike is a fundamental right, but the right to move and the continuity of public service, dear to some, and I hope to all of us, are equally, if not more so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u45	Thank you for your answer, Minister, and especially for the final sentences of it, because that is what we, as N-VA, are about. It's a good thing there's that law. An evaluation is also foreseen. We will monitor this on behalf of the N-VA and will certainly evaluate the first minimum service in practice. If it is not enough, we believe that further steps should be taken, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Grovonius, you were just talking about staff being requisitioned. No-one is being brought forward under that law, but I have not yet heard from you about the students who may have an exam tomorrow, the many travellers or the youth associations who have to leave camp on Saturday. There is indeed a right to strike. That is a fundamental right. As you said, Minister, this is not just about the right to education, the right to work and the right to move. There must be a proper balance. I am sorry that Mr Hedebouw is no longer here, because I think we have heard the maddest thing here, but he has just ignored, on behalf of the Labour Party, the right to work and the right to strike above it. That is absolutely not possible for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I have not heard anything about possible schedule overruns in security functions. I'm just as worried about passenger transportation as you are, but I'd like them to be able to move safely. As far as the guaranteed service is concerned, I'll read you two SNCB tweets. The first one: "We are trying to make the travel planner as accurate as possible. Further updates will be made to reflect the situation as best as possible. Check with the travel planner just before you leave." The second, in response to a traveller who was worried about whether she would have a train or not: "Unfortunately, we cannot guarantee it. Don't miss checking the travel planner just before you leave." Minister, you can call it what you want, but in any case, there is no question of guaranteed service at any time, nor of guaranteed service in complete safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u47	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to note that some people would prefer to see the guaranteed service fail tomorrow, because they still place strikers' rights above the rights of the working people. I find it sad to see that way. We believe that the system will succeed tomorrow, for the following reasons. People who depend on public transport to get to work will get to work. Young people who still have to take an exam will get to their schools or university. Whoever wishes will be able to celebrate the beginning of the holiday. Tourists who are present massively in our country these days will be able to take the train to discover the many beautiful things our country has to offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u48	Mr President, Minister, we have discussed the Paris Climate Agreement a number of times, in particular with regard to its implementation in Belgium. Unfortunately, I have to come back to this again. In this respect, both you and the Prime Minister stated that you have a great deal of ambition to apply the Climate Agreement and that Belgium will do everything in its power to ensure that it succeeds. Unfortunately, we notice a great difference between words and deeds. Two weeks ago, the European Commission increased its ambition for renewable energy, from 27% to 32%. We read in the press that you think this is a good thing, that you support it and that you would do everything at federal level to achieve that ambition. Yesterday, however, we heard that Belgium abstained from voting on the Permanent Representatives Committee. Belgium has abstained! Here you say that you have a great deal of ambition in this area, but Belgium is abstaining at European level. That is incomprehensible, Madam Secretary. My first question is why Belgium has for heaven's sake abstained. Madam Secretary, you have a second chance. There'll be another vote tomorrow. I hope you will prove that the Paris Agreement is not a piece of paper. Tomorrow there will be a vote on the new governance framework and on energy efficiency. My second question is whether you will finally show some ambition, like most countries around us. Will you vote in favour tomorrow? I hope you will not reply that you will vote against or abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u49	Mr President, Mrs Temmerman, I fully agree with you. It is indeed necessary that I have acted as I have done and that Belgium has manifested itself through this abstention, which is linked to the functioning of our country. Indeed, there was no agreement between the federated entities. I have already had the opportunity to discuss with one or the other Member in committee the drafting of the decision-making process. As soon as the federated entities cannot agree and one of them has opposed raising the ambition for renewable energy, it is not possible to display a position other than that of abstention. Mr Nollet, I see that you make one or the other comment. We talked about it together...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u50	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u51	Mr. Nollet, I explained that one entity disagreed and that the federal government could not make the decision alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u52	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u53	Of course not! We are in a federalism of loyalty, Mr. Nollet, even if you do not seem to recognize it or know it. An entity must therefore probably make progress, and it must be encouraged to move towards more ambitious goals. Anyway, we had to abstain. I would like to point out, Mrs Temmerman, that with regard to the least 35% of CO2, we are fully aligned and that our objective is to reduce CO2 emissions due to competition by 2030 in non-ETS sectors. The ambitious objective of the Directive is a real challenge for Belgium in terms of cost-efficiency. But despite this, we are making sure that we continue to contribute constructively to the achievement of this objective. And I do not despair at convincing the entity that, for the moment, does not want to hear it about the need to increase our level of ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you for your full agreement with me, but you are a very weak minister. You fully agree with me, but you still have to lower your ambitions, because one party is against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u55	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u56	Yes, Madam Secretary, one party. And just now we heard a representative of this party say that they want action, action, action, but there is no action on climate. In fact, I did not receive an answer to my second question. How will you vote tomorrow? Even by abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u57	We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u58	Colleagues of the N-VA, I would like to remind you of the company we are in. Who else has been abstaining? Latvia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. Romania and Poland doubted, they even wanted to vote in favour. This is the company, ladies and gentlemen, in which we find ourselves when it comes to the climate. Madam Minister, I am pleased that you agree with me, but the fact that we are abstaining is a real disgrace to our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u59	Mr Secretary of State, last week I asked you in committee about the position that this government would take at the important European summit on migration which starts today. The Austrian Presidency of the EU from 1 July will hopefully lead to a change of direction. Kurz is in favour of protecting the European external borders and also wants to ensure that the mad system of compulsory quotas is finally ended and that illegal immigration is at least stopped. However, you did not answer the question of whether you would support Austria. Your answer was that the Belgian Government will take a position in the coming days and that we will see how things go in the next few hours and days. Mr Secretary of State, we have indeed been able to see that in the last few days. As always, this government has shown itself to be a loyal partner of Merkel and, above all, not of countries such as Austria, Italy and Hungary that want to change direction. After the Belgian navy ships of Minister Vandeput played ferry for illegal immigrants for a while, Belgium now has a new ferry, the German NGO Mission Lifeline. They pick up illegals from Africa and the Belgian government receives them. Mr Secretary of State, while your party is campaigning on the social media with the slogan'stop human trafficking', you are going to use such measures to stimulate people's smuggling. Hence my question. Why the hell is this incredibly wrong signal? What are you going to do with next ships? Do you think Michel will suddenly say no to Merkel as a loyal European partner? When will you finally do what you tweet and say, namely to stop smuggling and illegal immigration instead of encouraging it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, after consultation with the Member States, it was decided to chain a ship of the German open-border NGO Lifeline at the port of La Valletta Malta. There was a humanitarian emergency on that ship. The investigation is ongoing, but the elements available indicate that the ship has taken 226 illegal migrants on board off the coast of Libya, while the Libyan Coast Guard was already on its way to intercept the smuggling boat itself and take back its passengers to Libya, in accordance with Libya's international obligations under the UN Protocol on the Prevention, Control and Punishment of Trafficking in Human Beings. It is very important that the open border NGO Lifeline be prosecuted if this proves to be correct. In addition to chaining up the ship, I hope that the Maltese authorities will in that case also prosecute the activists on board. This will send a strong signal to the other open-border NGOs, which are hindering the Libyan coastguard in their fight against human trafficking by picking up illegal migrants off the coast of Libya with a view to putting them 500 km further into Europe, namely that Europe will no longer tolerate its activities in this way. Out of solidarity with the Maltese Government and with the new Italian Government, which will each take over part of the ship's crew, our country has once promised to include up to 15 passengers with a high risk of refugee recognition. It will probably be about Eritreans. The Italian Government is delighted with our offer of one-off solidarity. We must support that country in its fight against illegal migration. I would like to reiterate the words of the Italian Minister for the Interior, Matteo Salvini: 'Eight hundred people have already died at sea this year in an attempt to enter Europe illegally. The death of all those people weighs on the conscience of the smugglers and of all those who help them." Minister Salvini is quite right. It is time to stop migration madness in the Mediterranean. You are aware of our proposals in this respect. We must try to make a migration deal with a North African country as soon as possible. That deal must mean that anyone who tries to enter Europe illegally can be returned to that country. This is the only way to dismantle human trafficking and to avoid the many drownings that happen every month.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u61	Mr Secretary of State, we will see how much these 15 will become in practice. You have today crossed the border of 500 000 new immigrants since this government took office. If you like to tweet another number, then that number is something else. We shall see how many those 15 will be in due course. However, I am not so much concerned with that number, but you have mentioned a strong signal about the strong signal and the incredible suction effect of it, when you say that they can be heard here. In March 2017, after NGOs brought back a number of illegal immigrants to European soil, you literally said: "Stay away from it. You're only making it worse. They won't drown. They'll just stop leaving. We have to fish them out of the water and send them back. NGOs encourage smuggling rather than countering it." You were right about what you said, but you're doing the opposite. By supporting these NGOs today, you are encouraging the smuggling of people rather than stopping them. I conclude, Mr President, by pointing out that my hope for the European summit lies with countries such as Italy and Austria and not with a European slave like the Belgian Government. In Austria, Hungary and Italy, thanks to my sister parties FPÖ and the Lega, at least what the people are asking for is done.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u62	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u63	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 June 2018, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the designation of the effective members of the Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on embryo-in vitro embryos, No. 3201/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 June 2018, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the appointment of the actual members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos, No. 3201/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u64	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these draft laws. I propose that you devote one discussion to these bills. A limited general discussion was held in accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to rule 116, bills are subject to limited general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u65	The limited general discussion is open. The limited general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u66	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the present government took office, the budget was ill. She's much better off by now. The tax burden has fallen by EUR 8 billion during the current legislative period. Government debt fell from 106.7% to 103.1% of GDP. By the end of the legislative term, we will probably be below 100% of GDP. This means that during this legislative period we repaid EUR 3 000 in debt per Belgian. The budget deficit stood at 3.1 % in 2014, now 0.8 %. Indeed, that percentage still means a deficit. Why is that? Why aren't we all here yet? That is because some of the medicines we have implanted have not yet been fully absorbed. Unfortunately, we have stopped some of the treatments prematurely. Activating job seekers and sick people more is a prime part of making the budget healthy. If we could activate 5% more job seekers, the budget would have been in balance. So there's still work to be done. The government is still too fat. She's still pulling too much money at her. In this respect, we continue to have a problem and we still have to take steps. Can someone explain that a train driver at SNCB can no longer work at 55 years of age, because he is so exhausted, but that a pilot can continue to fly until 67 years of age? I don't think so. We have also been delayed in the file on bridge pensions. We agreed that the system would go out. Everywhere we hear employers asking questions, shouting and begging for capable employees. Nevertheless, social peace is still being bought off today with a bridge pension. The aim was to further reduce social security expenditure. We were going to relax the Renault Act, we were going to implement the remuneration on the basis of competences, but we still haven't gotten there. Why not? Because it is always put away behind the consultation with the social partners, and only empty boxes come back from that. Of course, there are also unexpected side effects. Migration is a problem. We must continue to look for solutions to the ageing population. We must continue to make new investments. And we must continue to save as hard as we can to reduce the deficit. Fortunately, we have the support of Europe in this. That actually gives us the same recipes. We need to achieve a budgetary balance by increasing the effective retirement age in the labour market, by increasing the rate of activity, by saving on public expenditure. The resulting profits must be invested in infrastructure so that public debt can also be reduced more quickly. That is also the path that Minister Van Overtveldt is taking. The income is at a high level; that is not where the problem is in Belgium, with its large public debt. With any other coalition, Mr Gilkinet, the budget deficit, if it were to be resolved, would be eliminated by massive new taxes. We have been asking for suggestions to save for years, but we do not hear anything. We have been asking for this for years, but we still have to hear the first serious opposition proposal. And the myth that everything can be brought to the rich sounds very unbelievable when the left side has been in power for a quarter of a century and has never realized this. This government, on the other hand, has finally taken the necessary structural measures to restore the economy. We are closing the debt well and the tax burden has been reduced for the first time in 40 years. For the first time in years, a little space is created for those who work, save and undertake. In this budgetary control, the government once again adheres to the European budget path, which has cut the structural deficit by half in two years, to 0.84%. And we did so without introducing new taxes that affect families or businesses. In phase 2 of the tax shift, purchasing power will be further strengthened and corporate tax reform will further increase competitiveness. For all these reasons, our group will approve the budget adjustment enthusiastically.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u68	Mr President, I will not be very long on this budgetary adjustment for the simple reason that it has been going on for several months. We will remember that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Budget explained to us that the first day would be reserved for Parliament. We can see how much Parliament is being respected when it comes to budgetary work. We are almost in July and we are only going to vote for the budgetary adjustment in plenary. I do not know how many weeks or months before I have official figures, whereas the press, of course, at particularly tedious press conferences, already had all the information. Mr President, first of all I want to denounce this fact of a Parliament that is not respected, particularly when it comes to budgetary work. This adjustment presented to us appears to be already completely outdated, as it is known to have a growth rate of 1.8%. The National Bank and the Plan Office are revising their growth forecasts downwards. We're even talking about 1.5% for 2018, which is a 0.3% differential. This is considerable not only in terms of the estimation of tax revenues but also in terms of primary expenditure. There is clearly something that gives your work an outdated, obsolete aspect. Another important point that I would like to stress is precisely the fact that you are in a situation of budgetary failure today. You have to say it. You announced at the beginning of the legislature a return to balance in 2018. Finally, it will not even be for 2019 but for 2020, with, if we stick to the latest figures from the Plan Bureau, still 8,4 billion euros to be found, which is obviously considerable. How did we get there? You know as well as we do. You explained to us that your tax shift, which costs more than 9 billion euros, will be able to finance itself by the magic of return effects. Return effects are not there and, for more than 50%, your tax shift is not funded. You are finally dragging with you this budget gap, this budget hole due to an unfunded tax shift. You have also proposed to the country a semblance of economic policy which, in reality, is more than an ideological posture, starting very strongly with sacrifices imposed on the population. We will remember the jump in the index, the structural de-financing of social security with the reductions in employer contributions, to create employment and thereby generate investment and put us back in a sort of virtuous economic spiral. It is clear that the rate of growth is decreasing, that the jobs created, I quote the National Bank and the University of Ghent, "are more due to the international economic situation than to the tax shift". I would even say that the share of jobs created by tax shift is actually quite marginal. Despite all this, we find ourselves with a less advantageous economic situation in Belgium than it is in the euro area, but above all with a budget gap that is growing considerably. Let's be clear! I am going to be right and I will say it before you: yes, the decline in growth is due to a number of international factors. Let us mention the uncertainties related to Brexit, the problems of trade relations - I use an understatement - between Europe and the United States, the rising price of oil, and we could still identify two, three other elements. Nevertheless, the fact that Belgium has a lower growth rate than that observed in the euro area does not date from today. It has been observed since the beginning of the legislature, something that was not observed under the previous legislature. So, clearly, what you are establishing, that is, a revival of the economy through reductions, to resume your lexicon, of wage costs - on the contrary, we say a reduction in wages and linear reductions and reductions in social contributions - does not work! The index jump doesn't work! By your obsessive policy of reducing so-called wage differentials, you cannot revive the economic machine and the figures in terms of employment will not mask your deficit situation! This is the more general panorama and it is obviously essential to do something else and to do something else. We can only commit you to restore some oxygen to domestic demand, both private and public. You know what I'm thinking. Finally, we need to be able to make relevant redistribution and not continue to increase consumption taxes as you have done. It is also certainly necessary to put an end to your linear cuts in primary spending and, on the contrary, to come back with more relevant and more precise measures that support, in particular, the disposable income of households and in particular public demand, in other words, to stop with austerity policy. For the rest, we are starting from a figure of 8.4 billion, according to the Bureau of the Plan, by 2020, but unfortunately I am adding to those 8.4 billion euros at least two billion euros of uncertainty that could create a negative budgetary latency due to recurring problems in estimating your tax revenues. First of all, there is the freedom you take towards the National Bank, to maximize the structural effect of early payments by at least 10% too much. This is considerable on a mass of more than 2 billion euros. Be careful not to repeat the same mistake because we are announcing, again, figures of advance payments that continue to be important for this year and perhaps even for next year! It seems to me that you are making an error in continuing this maximalist rate of structural effects of the increase in advance payments. It would be a mistake and I would say even more: a major political mistake in terms of the proper conduct of our public finances. I won't go back to the Cayman tax. I'll let my Sp.a. colleagues talk about it. You are unable to tell us if you achieve your budgetary results, your figures (the 500 million) that no one in the ranks of the majority can claim to be achieved. The most credible assumptions speak of 5 to 50 million euros, a particularly poor result. The minister's answer in this regard is: "This proves that it works!" No, I don't! We have to stop thinking of ourselves as more gullible than we are. No one today is able to verify whether the starting estimate on which you establish was correct or not. To this, we must add a whole series of swellings of pre-existing measures, of which I will not repeat the inventory here. I refer to the work that we have done in committee. Then there are your famous technical corrections and this bill for an amount of €462 million of the impact of the tax reform that you refer to the Regions. So in fact yes; it is true that because of the partial regionalisation, a cost must be borne by the Regions! But with regard to Europe, when we ask your colleagues in the Walloon Region in particular, it is obvious that at some point we will have to produce this effort. However, it seems that the Walloon Region, in particular, has not yet taken this into account. This clearly means that you do not properly operate fiscal federalism or even fiscal federalism. This will also be clearly recorded in your liability. One more element! Your economic performance is not good and, as a result, causes enormous budgetary problems. To your $8.4 billion, I'll add two. I am not saying that these 2 billions will be confirmed, but there is a clear space of uncertainty for another 2 billion. And all this with, in addition, a stalemate of your majority on files that are nevertheless key from a budgetary point of view. I am referring, in particular, to the issue of the privatisation of Belfius. We oppose it. You are counting on this partial privatisation – although the figures vary according to the sources – whose use would be assigned not only to debt relief, but also to the financing of the investment plan. In other words, you haven't even sold your shares yet that you're already using that money. You'll have to explain how you're going to continue your debt-debt trajectory while financing the investment plan, if you get an agreement. That is why, Minister, we ask you once again: where are you in the Belfius case and the one related to it, namely the compensation of ARCO co-operators? For the rest, I refer to our work in committee. Mr President, for all these reasons, we will vote against this budgetary adjustment, which reflects the repeated and, unfortunately, final failure of the majority government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u69	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget adjustment consists of an update check on revenue and expenditure, taking into account recent economic parameters. There are others, of course, but they will be discussed at a later stage. This adjustment confirms the policy pursued since the beginning of the legislature by our government and oriented towards two objectives: on the one hand, support for economic activity and, on the other hand, the consolidation of public finances through the necessary structural reforms in terms of competitiveness and job creation in order to consolidate our growth and ensure the maintenance of our social model. The responsible choice to strike a balance between these two objectives is fully assumed by our group, which fully subscribes to it. It is based on a long-term vision, ensuring sustainable results for future generations. It should be recalled that, at the time of the initial budget, the government had estimated a structural balance of -0.68% of GDP. This ambitious goal has been maintained. To do this, it was necessary to find 1,417 billion euros. Several technical adjustments – re-estimation of the output gap and technical correction of the tax shift – have been developed, as have other positive measures. I am thinking of abolishing the increase in the penalty for insufficient remuneration, as the SMEs wanted. This is also reflected in the government's commitment to e-commerce, which is crucial to the development of our economy and employment. We also supported pro deo lawyers to improve access to justice. I continue the list: new efforts to combat poverty by increasing social inclusion income, the disability allowance, guaranteed income for people over the age of 65, and, finally, a provision of EUR 2 million for the AFSCA to strengthen its staff and controls. Budgetary control confirms that the commitment is economic as well as social. Exchanges with the Court of Auditors on the basis of its report have been instructive. In general, the Court's report is quite positive. Few shortcomings are noted and the quality of the information provided improves from year to year. We can welcome this, but we can also congratulate the minister and her services. Normally, the minister smiles when I say that! Since my colleagues are not interested in this, I am passing a game. As I said at the beginning, the government is making a thoughtful consolidation of our public finances. This is the budget for the economy, bearing in mind that we are starting from a difficult budgetary situation. In committee, the Budget Minister illustrated, in detail and with the necessary nuances, the policy pursued under this legislature by comparing it with that of previous governments. The findings are clear. We have committed ourselves to a balanced consolidation strategy, which aims to reduce both revenue, through a reduction in taxes, and expenditure. For us, further taxing our citizens is clearly not an option. Good sanitation performance has not prevented us from reducing the tax burden. My colleague recalled that earlier. The numbers speak for themselves. The economic recovery is there, even though it is a little threatened at the moment, and we wish to see it consolidated. Similarly, the purchasing power of citizens, after having experienced a negative trend and a limited increase, is consolidating. Households perceive and benefit directly from the effects of the measures taken. In addition, many jobs continue to be created under this legislature, and the vast majority of them are created in the private sector. In 2018, 507,200 new jobs are expected and this trend is expected to continue. In its June forecast, the Federal Office of the Plan indicates that in the period 2018-2023, close to 249,000 jobs will be created. This positive dynamic of the economy is, in addition to the favourable economic situation, when it is, the result of structural measures. This is confirmed by several independent bodies. The consolidation of our economy and the creation of jobs have a positive impact on our social security. These results are therefore part of a long-term perspective. At the same time, the efforts made in the area of sanitation are not sluggish. In just three years, we split the deficit by three. The most recent statistics confirm the improvement in the budget. Similarly, the structural balance has improved considerably. As for the debt that has increased since 2007 to a historically high level in 2014, it is now in a downward spiral and this trend continues from year to year. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we want to continue to strengthen the consolidation of our economic growth. We also want to amplify the results of the reforms. We want to give Belgium an ambitious investment strategy and invest in the future of our infrastructure in terms of mobility, digital technology and energy. These challenges – to clean up, consolidate, reform and invest – are important to us and we intend to continue our work and efforts in these areas. We do not want to stop at the good results achieved so far. We know that the road is still long and difficult. We will remain vigilant. We want to continue working for more purchasing power, more competitiveness and more social protection. For all these reasons, our group will enthusiastically support budgetary adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u70	Mr President, I have before me the report by Mr Piedboeuf and Mr Van Biesen on the discussion of the present draft. We have had a very thorough discussion in committee. Mr Laaouej claims not to, but I think we have learned lessons from previous discussions. In this way, the government has replied twice, of course, outside the introduction. First, it replied to the criticisms and comments of the Court of Auditors and, in addition, at the last meeting, to the comments made by the members of the committee. If you read the report thoroughly, you will see a number of things more clearly. That is why we have to disagree with it, but we have had a very good technical discussion. The Minister for the Budget has explained to us, among other things, the difference in approach with the European Commission, which creates enormous confusion. If the European Commission says that the deficit is increasing by a certain percentage, when the government says that it is not, then who is right? There is, of course, still work to be done, because there is a consultation with the European Commission, where the Commission has a top-down approach and Belgium has a bottom-up approach. The same applies to the Minister of Finance. One can agree or disagree on the proceeds of certain taxes, which I myself have often objected to, but in technical terms we have now received a lot of elements which make it easier for us to assess, which was not the case in the past. I therefore welcome the discussion and a little regret that budgetary control is being discussed in plenary just before Belgium's football match at 8 p.m., because this does not allow for a thorough discussion. In the magic triangle in which the government and we all have to work, it has scored very strong in two respects. Firstly, the purchasing power, the real disposable income of families, will increase by 2% in real terms in 2018. This was confirmed by the National Bank last week and is a boost to the purchasing power that we have not known for a long time. A second issue is employment, on which the National Bank says that 163 000 jobs have been added between 2014 and 2017 and 97 000 jobs will be added between 2018 and 2020. According to the Planning Bureau, by 2023, we will be able to get 250 000. Today I read in the newspaper that unemployment has been at the lowest level since 2000. I am a little disappointed that, even in the majority, instead of "jobs, jobs, jobs" people are beginning to talk more and more about "skills, skills, skills." Of course, there are vacancies that are not filled, but this government and international developments have given employment a great boost. That fact should not be snowed under in a discussion about matters that are often not in our hands, because, as I know, the Regions are responsible for training and training. They must also guarantee the quality of the jobs. However, this federal government has achieved good results in terms of employment. On the budget, we had a deficit of 3.2 % at the beginning of this legislature. The deficit is now 1%. That deficit of 1% is indeed a realization, but we should strike a balance in the next two or three years. I do not want to comment on the date, but we have to note that the forecasts in this area are not so positive. The European Commission spoke about the uncertainty of a number of factors. I personally believe that budgetary control and discussion on the basis of the figures for the first two months are premature. I do not think that we should have this debate every year on the basis of two-month forecasts. I think it takes six months to assess whether or not we are on course. Meanwhile, many things have changed, including the growth forecasts. In 2018, the National Bank talks about 1.5 % growth. In budgetary terms, this means a loss of EUR 500 million. The estimates of revenue should be based on the first two months. We simply cannot say anything about that. Someone who follows budgetary developments knows that. We now have the July Monitoring Committee, which is based on April figures. I think it is very difficult to make forecasts so early in the year on the basis of a number of estimates. Anyway, it is what it is. Here's what worries me. A few months ago we said that we had a structural deficit of about 1% and that this would fall to 0,7 % in 2018, i.e. a decrease of 0,3 %. However, the National Bank, which I trust in that regard, says that it will not go to 0,7%, but that it will probably stagnate at 1%. So this year we will not go to a lower deficit. The Planning Bureau even says that the deficit could increase slightly. In some publications I see 1.1 %, in others 1.4 %. Thinking that we can balance a budget after 2018 - in 2018 we would achieve 0.7% and then we would need 3 billion for balance - is perhaps too optimistic. The deficit is stabilising around 1% this year. The primary balance also stabilises around 1.4 % in 2017 and 2018, which is a good surplus. The Federal Debt Agency, which we have also heard, states that a primary balance of 1.4 % is very good, but the Planning Bureau predicts that the primary balance will fall to 0.3 and 0.4 % in the following years. One of the reasons why we always have discussions with the institutions is the uncertainty about the level of revenue. This has to do with the fact that there are new revenues and that there is insufficient accountability of the figures you are raising. I will not repeat the debate on the Cayman tax and the regularisation tax. However, while overall income has remained stable and there is even a slight increase in the initial budget in 2017, for the first few months of this year we have to see again that the withholding tax is below expectations, that the Minister is now also saying that he cannot stick a number to the caiman tax, because this is about different items in the withholding tax and personal income tax. I don't know if that's a trend that's gonna go through. I regret that because it casts a shadow on the serious of a number of figures. I can endorse the forecasts of the National Bank and the Planning Bureau. They expect an increase in the deficit to 1.8 % in 2019 and 1.8 % in 2020 under unchanged policies. If we are to achieve a balance by 2020, we need a restructuring effort of around 7.5 billion according to the Court of Auditors and the National Bank and even 8 billion according to the Planning Bureau. We will therefore have to go on a very difficult budgetary course for the next two years. There is no doubt that the deficit has been reduced to 1% in four years, and that is a good thing, but we must be careful, because we are far from having a balance. The National Bank expects a stagnation of the deficit this year. In any case, we must ensure that we can reduce the deficit. The European Commission is watching and can say for 2016 and 2017 that we have more or less done our job, but for 2017 and 2018 we run the risk of non compliance with significant deviation. That's dangerous. Of course, there are also one-off factors, such as the advance payments made by companies. The government has been cautious in this respect and has been structuralally reducing it to 50%. The National Bank wanted 60% there. Furthermore, part of the tax shift was not financed. There is lower economic growth. Interest charges will decrease less quickly than in the past. In short, we are facing an uncertain period in terms of budget. This year we will not end at 0,7%, with another three billion needed to achieve a balance. Perhaps that amount is much higher. I am not pinning my mind on 7 or 8 billion, but serious efforts are still required. It is not right that nothing should have happened with regard to expenditure. Mr Klaps of the N-VA claims that taxes have been reduced and that we should look for expenditure in particular. Now, Mr Klaps, the statistics show that the government has fallen from 52% to less than 50% on primary expenditure. So 8 billion has been saved. This has also happened in social security, because the employment budgets have fallen seriously. In the coming months and years, including the next government, we will have to take action in an environment in which the economy is undoubtedly more difficult. The Planning Bureau also predicts lower economic growth. In addition, the interest rate counter comes to an end. There is also uncertainty about the financing of the tax shift. The European Central Bank has announced that its QE programme will cease in 2019. The interest rate would remain at the current level until mid-2019, but then it will increase. So the government will suffer from that interest rate evolution in the following years. Luckily, our debt is well-clicked in the long term. We heard that last week from Mr Deboutte of the Federal Debt Agency. However, the interest rate evolution can be dangerous. After all, we used the interest bonus to reduce taxes. Savings have been made, but in the following years we will face a number of challenges. I am opposed to the idea that we can only achieve a balance through interventions in social security. I also hear Mr Klaps arguing in favour of this. Mr Klaps, you need to explain to me where you will actually save on health care and pensions, which have grown twice as fast as the economy over the last ten years. That kind of statement bothers me. That doesn't mean nothing can happen. Mrs De Block is receiving enormous criticism from the opposition, including Green, for trying to limit expenditure to real growth of 1.5 percent, but I think she has been able to safeguard health care from deep intervention, which is not necessary and which no one asks. The same applies to pensions. Not only have the lowest pensions been increased. Pensions as such were safeguarded, even though the retirement age in this legislative period was raised to 67 years and the bridge pension was reduced. Can we cut public spending?. Mr Klaps recently argued that the government is too fat. Yeah, she's too fat. But where are the 750 million due to the redesign of the government, of Minister Vandeput? Where's that fat? I haven't seen much of that. Your party is only party politics, Mr Klaps. If the unemployed are to be activated, this must be done either by reducing unemployment benefits or by limiting unemployment benefits over time. Well, that's against Kris Peeters. The problem is that activation is a Flemish, a Walloon or a Brussels power. For you, it's always the other person who did it. That bothers me. Activation must be a collective effort, which must be done after social dialogue. CD&V is not a left-wing party, we are a party that believes that everyone should be able to discuss the measures. It is clear that the final decision will be taken. But the social fabric must not be ignored. The trade unions then criticize as if the government were doing social horror. I've read the Plan Bureau's report again, Mrs. Almaci. Do you know what social security costs in Belgium? This is now more than 100 billion, of which more than 30 billion for health insurance and more than 40 billion for pensions. Solutions are possible, but this will have to be done in social dialogue and not with slogans and party politics towards each other. I think it is so important that we achieve a balance in the budget over the next few years. I heard a few months ago at the Clean Floor saying that this is only EUR 3 billion more. The figures are now available: it is EUR 6 to 7 billion. That money will not be found in this legislature, but in the future. There will have to be a reorganisation policy in a different context. Internationally, we are dealing with protectionism, Brexit, the quantitative easing that ends and the interest rate traps that disappear. That will require great efforts, but let us not fall into slogans when it comes to the budget, but into figures and real measures. I am convinced that this country can handle this, but that must be done in consensus and loyalty. We should not try to polarize constantly. A balanced budget is necessary, given what comes to us with pension costs, ageing costs, lower interest rates and economic growth. I hope that this can remain out of the party political sphere over the next few years, but I sometimes have serious doubts about that, even when you have just spoken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on budgetary control in March. Some colleagues, including Mr Laaouej, said as well: this is hardly worthy of budgetary control. This budgetary control is, after all, obsolete today. In fact, Mr Van Rompuy has also confirmed this. In order to achieve this year's target of a budget deficit of 0.68%, the Monitoring Committee had calculated that the government should seek EUR 1.4 billion. The government has collected this amount by hardly making any effort or taking any real measures. The proof is that after this budgetary control we should not even vote on a programme law. So no measures have been taken, otherwise we would have to approve them. We say that not only, but also the analysis of the Court of Auditors is clear. It calculated that less than one fifth of the amount was found by genuine new measures. That is only EUR 256 million out of EUR 1.4 billion. The remaining amount was found by no less than EUR 826 million in technical corrections and EUR 354 million in re-subscription of previously approved measures. So that's nothing new. Not only the Court of Auditors but also the European Commission is clear. The European Commission's conclusion was clear and very critical. She wrote the following in her country report on Belgium. I quote: "The overall impact of the March audit on the European Commission's projections is estimated at 0.1 % of gross domestic product in 2018', an impact of 0.1 %. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the budgetary control we are discussing here today and are likely to approve later. As I said, budgetary control is hardly worthy of that name. It is a control that does not change the budgetary performance of the current government. We must not forget that the budget was the self-elected major area of the right-wing government. Finally, without socialists, the budget could be put in order. What's the result? Colleagues, the result is a thick tube for the main compartment. This year the government is not even making any effort with budgetary control. It seems that it has largely abandoned the budget. This is not only apparent from the 0.1% check. This is also reflected in the objective for 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, every year Europe expects our deficit to be improved by 0.6%. What is the government's objective for 2018? It aims at an improvement of 0.17%. What's the excuse? The excuse of the current government is that it does not want to save harder, because it could thus slow down economic growth. That, however, was the major criticism of the N-VA, among others, under the previous government. That was the promise of the current government, wasn't it? The government went through growth and jobs to make sure that the budget settled itself. After all, there were payback effects on the assembly line and the budget would be settled anyway. Lousy promises, it turns out. The budget balance is actually a mirage for the government. In the distance there is always one to see, but when one gets close enough, it is moved every time and is always on. At the end of the legislature of the Di Rupo government, the plan was to achieve structural equilibrium in 2016. In this form of government, the new government postponed until 2018. Last year it was postponed in the stability programme until 2019 and this year the budgetary balance in the stability programme was postponed to 2020. It is clear that the balance was not achieved this year. As Mr Laaouej - and also Mr Van Rompuy - said, the situation is likely to deteriorate even earlier. This is reflected in the projections of the European Commission, the National Bank and the Planning Office. They all come to the same conclusion: if policies remain unchanged, the budget deficit will almost double to 1.7% of GDP by 2020. It is true that the budget deficit has fallen from 3.1 to 1.7 per cent over this period of government. However, let us not forget that 1.3 % of this is due to the fall in interest charges. The reduction in the budget deficit due to real government efforts is actually almost zero. Who's responsible for that? Of course, that's the Minister of Finance. First of all, the tax shift is still missing from the budget, despite the fact that the Minister has always said that the tax shift is budget-neutral. Quietly, he's the only one who still believes that. His chairman recently admitted that on TV. The European Commission is also very clear about this. I quote: 'The budgetary non-neutral nature of the tax reform undertaken has made the budgetary situation worse'. This brings me to the reform of corporate taxation. Again, it is priced: both the National Bank and the Planning Bureau predict that the doubling of the deficit will be almost entirely due to the decline in income from corporation tax. The Minister makes gaps in the budget and then follows the well-known recipe: they call for cuts in social security. That is the strategy of this right-wing government. You may say, Mr Van Rompuy, that this government should no longer be pruned, but I am sorry: you stand by and look at everything that is happening. Budgetary control is therefore a missed opportunity to move towards a balanced budget, a missed opportunity to make taxation fairer, a missed opportunity to improve purchasing power and strengthen social policy. The opposite is true. During this budgetary control, it became clear that even EUR 40 million was saved in the fight against poverty. According to the government agreement, the government would increase benefits to the poverty line. According to last year's summer agreement, we would even take a step further in the last few years of this government, and for that we had allocated EUR 100 million. The first budgetary control will save only EUR 40 million, just at this item. This proves once again the government's total lack of ambition to combat poverty. Not only of this government, but also of the Flemish government. Child poverty in our country is rising and this government is saving on poverty reduction. One out of seven children in our country grow up in poverty. That is unfair, just as it is unfair to save a lot of money in health care and there is a great shortage of nurses. The pharmaceutical sector can now receive hundreds of millions of gifts, including from these colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that our group will not approve this budgetary control. After all, no step has been taken towards a balanced budget. She doesn't bring tax justice. And she doesn't bring social progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u72	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, here is a budget adjustment for form, waiting for more serious things - let us be clear: the next conclave, the future Tomorrowland! The 2019 budget, in substance, included some micro-recovery measures, which I mentioned in committee and which we can support: - taking into account the dual cohort of medical candidates; - a small strengthening of the judicial framework, which is in great need of it - we are far from meeting all the needs in the field of justice; - increasing social income for single-parent families. Any measures that ecologists can obviously support. But some micro-measures cannot change the problematic macroeconomic course and characteristics of this majority's fiscal policy. We discussed it with Mrs Wilmès, with Mr. Van Overtveldt, with representatives of the Court of Auditors as well. We have discussed some cross-cutting issues which I would like to return to, since these questions remain and call for an answer, whatever the result of the vote on this adjustment. Minister, Minister, I have five questions, the first is the question of employment, the "jobs, jobs, jobs" of which you are so proud. Of course, as ecologists, we prefer an increase to a reduction in the number of jobs in our country. That's it! But I would still like to temper, to nuance the enthusiasm of the majority on certain points to which I ask you to be attentive. 1. If the unemployment figures - this is the tag you regularly use - are decreasing, it is first and foremost linked to the phenomenon of exclusion from unemployment, from the transfer to the budget of the disease. Long-term unemployed people become long-term patients. There is also the creation of substatuts. This is not 100% related to job creation. 2. The employment rate is increasing. This is obviously a positive indicator. I think this is the right indicator to use in employment. But it is growing less rapidly than in neighbouring countries. The economic performance of our state cannot be described as extraordinary at this stage. 3. The quality of jobs is really our main concern. Mr. Van Rompuy told us earlier about his fears about the increase in the social security budget. But it is linked to an increase in society's needs in response to problems such as health, long-term illness of workers, burnout, depression, which a government must also be able to respond to. As ecologists, we obviously prefer that our fellow citizens should not be ill. There is a real problem in terms of quality of employment, with under-status and more and more sick workers. 4. The cost per job is also a cause for concern. The tax shift operation has a significant budgetary cost that is not funded. If we look at the cost of the tax shift and the number of jobs created, we come to a particularly large sum. Moreover, in terms of the selectivity of the reduction in social contributions, there is a lack of selectivity in the head of government towards the lowest wages and jobs that are strategically important. 5. In the area of employment, specific categories remain outstanding. I am thinking here, in particular, of young people who face difficulties in integrating into the labour market, of older workers. Indeed, after 50 years of age, when you lose your job, it is particularly difficult to find a job, including when you have the will to do research in this direction. We also have a problem with the employment rate of people of foreign origin, whom the director of the Bureau du Plan described this week in La libre Belgique as "Bruxelloise sociological bomb". And your government is not taking concrete action to address this problem. 6. The lack of specialisation of our economy and therefore of employment is pointed out by the National Labour Council. We are an average economy in all and excellent in nothing, which is problematic. "Jobs, jobs, jobs" is a beautiful slogan, but when you dig a bit, you identify a series of issues and challenges that are not encountered by this government. This brings me to the economic and budgetary state of Belgium. From an economic point of view, Belgium benefits from the good health of its main customers, from neighbouring countries that behave well, in any case, better than Belgium. This is the first external element in Belgium. Secondly, from a budgetary point of view, the fall in interest rates linked to the very active policy of the European Central Bank in terms of asset buybacks leads mechanically, thanks to the work of the Debt Agency that we received in the Finance Committee - we have positively stressed the transformation of our debt into a long debt with low rates - to an extremely favourable situation in terms of rates. We will have to talk about it in the past soon. We are told that the corrections to the trajectories that are announced are linked to external phenomena: economic instability, diplomatic instability, the increase in the price of oil. This shows that Belgium is far too dependent on external factors, either positive or negative. We have not taken sufficient advantage of the opportunity provided by the good economic health of our clients and the cost of debt to reform our economy in a timely manner. It is not a question of reforming it by reducing the rights of workers in social security - which is going to cost in the future - but by specialising in certain sectors of our economy. The third element I wanted to point out is the question of tax revenues. This is a recurring problem that is highlighted by the Court of Auditors and Europe. It's a real time bomb. I think the Minister of Finance is more aware of this than the Minister of Budget. This is a strategy that I wish to denounce. All the new tax measures that are supposed to bring more tax justice, more capital income contribution, which are now being used very little - in plain terms, the CD&V's demands - do not stand up to the analysis, be it the Cayman tax, the offshore construction tax abroad, or the security account tax. We are told in each financial year that there is an increase in revenue which is never true, and which is very difficult to verify, as the Court of Auditors explains. When we ask you to introduce an additional code in the personal or corporate tax return to identify the effectiveness of your Cayman tax measure, you refuse. What do you have to hide? A good fiscal policy is also a transparent policy that can be controlled both by Parliament's armed arm in this area, the Court of Auditors, by the representatives we are and by all citizens. In tax matters, you anticipate revenue. That's very clear. This appears with the increase in penalties that lead to more advance corporate tax payments. It is typically a one shot measure, which only produces its effects over a year. Taxes paid proactively in year x are no longer paid in year x+1. You cannot claim a structural effect on this matter. You mask the non-financing of the measures you have taken: the tax shift, the future non-financing of the corporate tax reform. You're pretending a zero-sum game. You claim to be neutral in the budget. You are not demonstrating this and we believe that it is on a voluntary basis, Mr Van Overtveldt, that you are leading us to new deficits for the future that will justify further unjust reforms. The government's inability to have a correct forecast of tax revenues, or even a willingness to hide fiscal gaps related to tax non-revenues, is a time bomb that will explode in the hands of the next government. We are already almost in 2019. The fourth element I wanted to return to is the question, which has also been discussed, of the announced investment plan that may emerge from your future conclave after July 21, 2018. I don't know where it'll be announced this time. We have expressed our full hope and support for the principle of an investment plan. We asked for this and our two group leaders, Kristof Calvo and Jean-Marc Nollet, worked on a plan that they gave to the Prime Minister and which is called BE.invest. We encourage you, vis-à-vis Europe, to negotiate the principle of exception in relation to the investment expenditure of the State and the calculation of the total debt of the Belgian State and the other European States. In terms of debts, there are good debts and bad debts. Investment debts are good debts. Europe needs a more open view of investment expenditure from all levels of power up to the municipal level. We are waiting for you with your proposals because if we are to recycle expenses that are planned anyway and to announce that it is an investment plan as well as to structurally reduce the resources of the SNCB at the beginning of the legislature with Mrs Galant to announce three years later with Mr Bellot that we are going to fund the RER as part of the investment plan, it is a zero-sum game. We decreased by two billion and then increased by two billion. This is therefore not an additional investment. We have proposals. We believe that we need to work on the economy of the future, the digital economy, energy savings and the search for energy autonomy in our country, which will improve our trade balance with oil, gas or coal-exporting countries. We believe that we need to work on energy storage, which is the key to succeeding in both public health challenges, such as the removal of fine particles, and in meeting our climate commitments. We need to get out of nuclear power and work on the storage of renewable energy produced. We are waiting for you on this subject with our hand stretched out. We have said that we would support you if the proposals were good, but we will have to convince ourselves that they are, otherwise we will make criticisms and counter-proposals. In conclusion, it is necessary to correct the trajectory, not fiscal but social and environmental. Since the beginning of the legislature, you have undermined social cohesion and the most fragile by measures of linear savings in social security with an index jump that has not been compensated for for the social beneficiaries or at least for a significant part of them. You have hard hit the voluntary sector, which is a factor of social bonding. It is important to make corrections in this regard. As far as the environment is concerned, I would like to say to Mr Klaps, who is no longer here and who gave us lessons of economy earlier, that the absence of a decision on the energy issue and the future of energy and the uncertainty about Belgium's strategic choices are the worst thing in economic matters. This hinders investment. This obliges us to invest in infrastructure and production tools that are outdated. It's bad money. This attitude of systematic sabotage of the N-VA accepted by the other members of the government perhaps suffered by some of them, - but in any case, accepted - this retrograde vision of the energy question that we think we can continue to waste natural resources like this for years, leads us into the wall as a Belgian State but also as citizens of this planet. We believe that clarity and strategic energy choices are needed as soon as possible. We have placed a lot of hope in the energy pact that is to be concluded between the Federal State and the Regions. We expect the next financial year to answer this question as well. This is a structuring, dynamic and strategic choice that you need to make in order for us to better appreciate your next fiscal years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u73	Mr President, I will remain on my bench, because I do not think that this adjustment deserves to go up to the rostrum. I heard earlier that Mr Klaps opened the debate by saying that the federal budget, a few years ago, was ill. I wondered if he would dare tell us that the budget was now cured. No, he didn't dare say it. The budget could have been considered to have been healed if the budgetary balance had been reached: that was the government's objective. Obviously, we're not there. Between sick and cured, there is a margin. Perhaps we can say that the budget is recovering, but in any case it is clearly not drawn from the case. The majority has a good game of saying that the postponement of the fiscal balance to 2019 and 2020 is due to the desire not to hold economic growth back. In reality, the accumulation of budgetary approximations results in the postponement of the return to balance. We can still question the ability to achieve it even in 2020 when we see the figures to be absorbed by then. For 2019, the Plan Office announced a structural effort of $4.6 billion and $8.4 billion for 2020. In order to take a good measure of this effort, it is necessary to take into account that the adjustment we are discussing now concerns new measures of up to 250 million. Of these 250 million, about 50 million are devoted to the fight against social fraud and tax fraud, of which it is well known that the budget entry is not based on anything. You are presenting us with an effort to make the order of 200 to 250 million euros and, by 2020, this will be the figure of 8.4 billion euros that will have to be reached. So it's really very difficult to think that we're in the process of healing. I think, on the contrary, that the next few days will be painful, especially because the reforms you have implemented are not fully funded, far from it! That is true of the tax shift, that is true of the corporate tax reform. And then, a new one has taken place since the federal government's adjustment, the downward revision of economic growth that sets the outlook for future fiscal years. The National Bank has revised the growth rate to 1.5% in 2018 instead of 1.7%. The Plan Office also confirmed the trend by reducing it to 1.6% instead of 1.8% for both 2018 and 2019. Neither you nor your successors will be able to count on upward growth to compensate for the budget gaps you have left. This makes me think that we need to be a forceful force of optimism, like our colleague, Mr Piedboeuf, to believe that, reasonably, we are reaching the end of the tunnel. We are, in fact, very, very far from the point of view. I would not like to dwell on the content of the adjustment since, obviously, it is not a convincing step in restoring budgetary balance. I would quickly like to pin this problem on the EUR 462 million that are not in Belgium's path. The federal government, by means of a technical correction, deducted this amount from the structural effort to be made. This corresponds to the decrease in the professional discount in 2018. This is the implementation of the second phase of the tax shift. This decline will necessarily be reflected in the regional PPI, but the problem is that this has not been the subject of any consultation between the federal state and the federated entities. In any case, the Conciliation Committee did not include the technical correction in the distribution of structural effort between entities so that there is a loss of tax revenue which is not recorded in the Belgian trajectory. There's a hole there. You acted as if it didn't exist because it's not the federal problem, but it says a lot about the lack of credibility and seriousness with which you establish your fiscal trajectories. In committee, you have very harshly referred the problem back to the Regions and the municipalities. It seems to me a little short since we want to be the bearer of a restoration of the budgetary balance for the whole House Belgium. Without extending myself for a long time, I would also like to pin down some of the sagas mentioned in committee without really finding a final point. I am thinking, in particular, of the securities accounts. This debate is recurring and instigating. Here I would like to quote a publication by the Fiscologue: "If the great boss of Finance sees no problem in promoting a questionable escape, it is difficult to blame the taxpayer for taking this opportunity lightly." Indeed, we are well aware that this tax on securities accounts will not achieve its objective, both in terms of budgetary performance and tax fairness, as there are many loopholes. The Council of State had already pinned it by the time the text was drafted. Since then, the gaps in the scheme have multiplied, so that the wealthy citizens who were targeted by the measure will obviously be able to escape the contribution to the payment from which they were invited. The other recurring saga is the Cayman tax. Again, we have been involved in lengthy debates in committee about the EUR 500 million that this tax is supposed to bring back. Where are they? No one knows. It is impossible to say in which column they can be found. That's why Mr. Van Rompuy felt that this cast a shadow on the serious budget of the government. As often, I agree enough with you, Mr. Van Rompuy. Honestly, the way in which this measure is presented and integrated does not support, far from it, the credibility of this budgetary exercise, nor that of the previous and subsequent ones. The plan to combat tax evasion was presented by the Minister of Finance in 2015. His objective was quite ambitious. Since then, we do not know too much about the status of implementation. Was it only approved by the government? We have the impression that it has remained a dead letter and that, therefore, the increase in the performance of measures to combat tax fraud does, of course, make it possible to balance the figures, but does not really result from the implementation of new policies and initiatives. In conclusion, as I said in committee, and I really think so, we are facing a somewhat pre-electoral budgetary exercise. An attempt is being made to develop both well and poorly in the light of future deadlines, suggesting that the situation has improved. But we are far from it. In any case, the deficit that the government will leave behind will be post-election and will not be easy to absorb. I do not expect more ministerial responses in plenary than in committee. However, if they could provide us with information on a subject, it would be the Belfius and ARCO file. It has become so political that we no longer get much information in the Finance Committee as to what the government intends to do to Belfius: whether to sell or not, how to allocate, what about the debt, what about the investment pact, what about ARCO? In this respect, the blur is total. Could you tell us more? If you could tell us about this, the debate would not have been useless. Since I have little illusions, neither will we be able to say that we are satisfied. That is why the cdH group will vote against this adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u74	Mr President, Minister, Minister, allow me to look at the story of this government's policy. I have to admit, it's not all trouble and torment. There are a number of good points, in particular the improvement of competitiveness. In my opinion, this government is entitled to do so. The government is showing off figures on growth and job creation. Indeed, there is growth and job creation, but compared to 30 other European countries, our country is at the 26th place in terms of growth and job creation. I can't say this is very good. It is often explained that our country has performed much better during the years of crisis, and that it cannot therefore be expected to perform much better than the other countries. I can only observe that countries that have survived the crisis years and have also done well present significantly better figures today than Belgium. I therefore do not think that this explanation can be regarded as a valid excuse. Let me turn to the reform of public spending. That was the topic, wasn't it? This government wouldn't do it the way it did before, would it? Di Rupo had not made much of it and this government would make the difference in terms of public spending. Now, an objective analysis teaches us that there has actually been no trend break. Expenditure on social security has increased, and I would like to admit that this increase also has to do with demographics. However, expenditure outside social security, excluding interest payments, is also increasing by 2%, while expenditure under the Di Rupo administration increased by 1.2 %. The claim that it is now so much better and that there has been a major trend break is unfortunately false, although I had hoped for it. The big fall in interest rates is what I call a missed opportunity. For years we have been able to benefit from very low interest rates, but the current public debt is still above 100%. Madam Minister, in your argument, you always start from the figure of 107 % of public debt in 2014, while the government debt in 2017 was only 103.1 % and you want to reach 101.2 % in 2018. So we are not yet below 100 %. You say that this is not the main objective and that the budgetary balance is not the main point you want to pursue because you absolutely do not want to sacrifice the economic recovery. I can understand that somewhat, but we see that other countries are far below 100% and that we are among the four worst pupils in Europe in terms of public debt. I therefore believe that we have really lost a chance here by not doing our debt with this low interest rate. I think you're very lucky to be surrounded by capable people, especially the Debt Agency. Mr Van Rompuy, we discussed debt in the Finance Committee. I believe that these people have done wonderful work in view of what they have done to prevent us from having immediate consequences if interest rates rise. So take off your hat for those people. Then there is the great promise of a balance in 2018. That has now been let go. That, however, was the great promise with which one would show off. 2018 became 2019 and suddenly it became 2020. However, they had begun well. If I looked back at the first budgets to look for 11 billion, 75% of them would be looked for in a reduction in expenditure and 25% in new revenue. That was all mustache. One had really started well but and the route has been deviated from the route and not so little. During the 2016 budgetary control, there were the first signs of hot air. That's too bad. Once again, we had a good start and I would have liked to have been very positive about the figures today, but I cannot. The 2018 budgetary control required an effort of 1.4 billion. The effort we are making now is very poor because the 1.4 billion has been found, among other things, through 826 million in technical corrections. That is what we know of these technical corrections, such as the adjustment of the tax shift with the Länder, where serious questions can be asked. There are also 353 million recalculations. They know that too, and I hold my heart for it, because they don't usually beat either. That's how I come to the conclusion. What are we talking about today? A budget review of 256 million, starting with 1.4 billion, ladies and gentlemen. There will be 256 million new measures. That's what I'm holding my heart for. We know these technical calculations and the recalculations! For example, there is the structural impact of advance payments of corporation tax. According to the National Bank, 40% of these advance payments can be viewed as structural. It'll be close by then. The FPS Finance itself might have thought even more negative about it, but all right, at the start, 40% of the budget for 2018 was entered as a recurrent. Suddenly it becomes 50 %. Of course, that is a very easy measure, saying that one will not charge 40 % as a recurrent in the budget, but 50 %. Hocus pocus pas, and suddenly there's 216 million more in the greenhouse. What the hell is going on with our sandwich? Last week, after the discussion in the committee, the National Bank said that the deficit of 1% could rise to 1.8 % by 2020. The Planning Bureau, a little more lenient for the government, mentioned 1.7 %. This in the case of unchanged policies. You will now answer me that there is another policy. The question is: what policy? Knowing that elections are coming, I also hold my heart in relation to the policy to be pursued, Mr Van Rompuy. Is the dash still in there? By the way, is it dash or Dash? Will you try to wash everything clean and come back with a clean slate next year? I have my doubts about that. The Court of Auditors also questions the budget neutrality of corporate tax reform. It is assumed that it is budget-neutral, but I wonder, like the Court of Auditors, whether the new calculation of corporate tax reform took place on the basis of recent figures? We all know that old figures from 2014-2015 were used. So let us make the new calculation of corporate tax reform as soon as possible and on the basis of recent data, so that no bodies will fall out of the box. Then there's the tax shift. Is the tax shift funded? I don't think so. What do we do now? Now we are quickly passing on the cost of the additional measures to the tune of 264 million. These are one-off, non-structural and therefore they will be transferred to entity II as of 2019. This means that 265 million will not end up in the cash, with the result that the budget for entity II has not yet taken account of that amount at all. It is all well and good, and I am pleased to see that, in the meantime, under the budget, there is an agreement between the federal government and the Länder to achieve a balance by 2020. That's very good, but it's not more than that. There is nothing on paper, there is nothing formal about who will do what and how this will happen. Even within entity II, nothing is recorded. I'm holding my heart again. Of course, a lot can be agreed. The words are there, but the deeds have yet to follow. I'm curious for 2020. I can also only observe that Mr Bogaert had requested a number of tables. I assumed that perhaps my interpretation of the answers was that we would get the tables on employment, but I did not see them added to the report. Perhaps my interpretation was wrong of the answer to the question whether or not Mr Bogaert would receive the tables. What will be decided in the coming summer? Budgetary control 2018 may be in place here, but the important budget for 2019 is already on the threshold. It's gonna have to start soon. The question is whether there will still be enough dash in the government to take good action. I agree with Mr Van Rompuy on this point, in the sense that the future looks less bright than we have known them in recent years. Economic growth is lower and interest rates will rise, but thanks to the Debt Agency, we may not be directly affected by this. We cannot go looking for savings in social security alone. Something else needs to be done. Everyone knows very well what the solution is. A Community standstill is not at all the solution to save on expenditure. This requires a reform of the institutions. I sincerely hope, Minister, Madam Minister, that this summer you will find the courage to take further steps towards a balanced budget and that you will come up with measures to achieve this, otherwise it will be a missed opportunity and a missed time. We did not get the government that was predicted. It is up to you, this summer, to live up to what the politicians had predicted about this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again, this budgetary exercise is also an opportunity to take stock of a government's policy. What is this assessment from a socio-economic point of view? I'd say it's contrasted. There's good news and bad news. It depends on who, in fact. For BEL 20 companies, it is true that there is very good news. Under this part of the legislature, the index increased by 21%. For capital, indeed, this is good news. For workers, this is less good news. On the employment front, for example, despite a favourable international situation, Belgium ranks 23rd out of 30 European countries. What jobs are created? Precarious jobs, as full-time jobs increase by 1.7%, but part-time jobs increase by 6% and temporary jobs increase by 26% over the period from the third quarter of 2014 to the third quarter of 2017. Wages, too, are pretty badly dealt with in our country. In 2016, Belgium was the only European country with a decline in real wages. In 2017, five European countries were involved, including Belgium. The government, in relation to these social attacks, still serves us the famous tax shift or the miracle of wages pocket. What is this miracle? To give an order of magnitude, if you look behind the set and look at the shift tax from the point of view of the world of work, there are 4 billion less taxes and 4 billion more taxes. It's balanced. And there are 4 billion in terms of indirect wage loss, which are social contributions, the occupational discount. In fact, the balance sheet is 4 billion negative for the world of work. All this is happening in a context of austerity. If we sum up all the budgetary efforts of this government since it is in place, until now we have reached a total of 18 billion fiscal efforts. What else should be added to this 18 billion budget effort? One might think that after so many billions of money from the workers, at last, the government would have come out of the red. No! The release of red, which was announced for 2018, was postponed to 2019 and then 2020. This means that the effort is passed on by this government to the next government. It's kind of like a tenant who wouldn't put his apartment in order, leaving this task to the next tenant. It is therefore a double penalty for the workers, as they have suffered austerity and as it remains a deficit that heralds future austerity. In order to achieve balance, EUR 8.4 billion will have to be added to the 18 billion efforts that have already been made so far. Debt continues to increase, although it increases less rapidly than GDP. In order to reduce this debt, the government has found nothing better than to sell the state's "family jewels", notably through a partial privatisation of Belfius, which, it is true, has difficulty in doing so for reasons of political discord. Beyond the social role that a public bank could play, this operation is budgetaryly negative. Indeed, it is clear that, with current interest rates, the decline in interest on the debt that would result from a partial sale of Belfius would be less than the dividend that the State would lose. So it's a bad thing on the budget. Even the chairman of the committee, Eric Van Rompuy, who as a right-wing man is rather in favour of privatization, says that, in the current context, privatizing Belfius is a bad thing. The pressure put on the European Commission to privatize and reduce debt is, of course, pushing for privatisation which, even from a budgetary point of view, is counterproductive. As regards revenue, disasters continue from year to year, from fiscal year to fiscal year. Who can still believe that the reform of ISOC will be fiscally neutral? The Cayman tax is nothing more than a large smoking industry, with a return equivalent to 1% of the initially announced yield. In spite of this, we are tightened up in each fiscal year an additional share of the Cayman tax. The tax on securities accounts, which could also be called the "passory" tax, may still be a greater smoke shop. It was the government itself that made the holes in the colander since, as revealed in a Deminor/De Tijd/L'Echo survey, 39% of investors have changed their way of investing. I think, among the richest, the rate is even more important. Except for those who have nothing to do, because the greatest fortunes were already initially exempt from the tax on securities accounts because they do not hold their money there. All the measures that are supposed to target capital are wet firecrackers. On the other hand, when it comes to increasing VAT on electricity to 21%, it is not a wet firecracker but a socially harsh measure, which cannot be avoided. In each fiscal year, there is also an amount from the fight against tax fraud that is planned. However, the Panama Papers bis case shows ex post facto that nothing has been done. The Panama Papers special commission was, moreover, totally squandered by the majority, who did not want to be able to buy tax information, as Germany had done. Thanks to this information, Germany has been able to effectively combat tax fraud and conduct investigations at the beginning of this data. Belgium, for its part, had to quench some data in those which Germany had purchased. Two years later, we received some of them, while Germany owns quantities of them. Our Minister of Finance is responsible for the fight against tax fraud, but does nothing to that effect. He is inventing figures to increase the ISI's workforce, while these numbers are not increasing. He told us in 2015 that the staff of the FPS Finances would decrease but that he promised that this would not be the case for tax auditors, that every departure would be accompanied by a hiring. In response to a parliamentary question, the minister provided me with figures that show a 9% decrease in tax auditors. Even this basic commitment is not respected! At the expenditure level, there would be a lot to say, but the current situation is a perfect reflection of this government's policy. Promises are not kept. I have just said so with regard to the staff of the tax inspectors. This also applies to prison guards. The Minister of Justice had made a firm and formal commitment to a number of prison guards. The new strikes show that this commitment has not been met. We could also talk about SNCB, where, from 2004 to 2007, we went from 40,000 to 30,000 railway workers, or 10,000 railway workers less. And when they strike, they say, "the right to work." There is the right to strike but there is also the right to work! This right to work also applies to those 10,000 jobs that have disappeared, but this is strangely not the case. Austerity has broken the social and infrastructure of the country, so much so that the Prime Minister felt obliged to launch an investment pact which is totally inadequate and which, moreover, is totally subject to the private sector, which itself provides the steering of the strategic committee. In terms of health care, there is still something flagrant and typical of this government's policy. All health sectors have had to make millions of euros in budget cuts. All but one! This is the drug industry, the major pharmaceutical companies with which the Minister of Health has made arrangements in catimini, which means that the health care sector is in the red to a maximum of 267 million euros. For the sick, there is no money but, obviously, there is money for the pharmaceutical companies. In conclusion, as usual, these are gifts for capital but austerity as well as a reduction of social rights for the population and workers. This reduction in social rights is accompanied, as has been regularly seen in history, by a reduction in democratic rights, in particular through an attack on the right to strike that has been addressed several times today in the time issue. The PTB has therefore introduced an amendment so that the politicians who carry out these austerity policies become a little more aware of the impact of these measures on the population. To do this, our amendment proposes to cut the salaries of Members and Ministers by half. This salary will not yet be reduced to the amount that the elected members of the PTB receive, but at least it will bring the political world a little closer to the living conditions of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u76	Mr President, I thank each and every one of you for your interventions. This is indeed the end of a process which is quite long but which is also complete. It started when we were able to debate the stability programme in the Finance and Budget Committee as it allowed us to put the 2018 budget on a longer-term path. It is true that the fiscal adjustment exercise itself is a lengthy process. I would remind you, however, that there is a report from the Court of Auditors, that the Court of Auditors has come to explain in committee what is happening and that the Government is responding to this Court point by point. I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee for highlighting the effort being made to answer the Court of Auditors and the various questions put by Members. I would also like to acknowledge the intervention of Mr. Piedboeuf, who thanked the ministers and the services. I add not only the services but also the members of the cabinet because the work should not be underestimated. We sometimes complain about the detail and the length of the answers, but the work of the teams behind us is enormous. So I would like to thank them. Fiscal adjustment is a purely technical exercise. It will confirm the path we decided to achieve a deficit target of 0.68% of GDP. Such a deficit rate is not the balance. I do not disagree, but we must review the course taken so far. We started in 2014 with a nominal deficit of 3.1%. In 2017, these are figures confirmed by the Institute of National Accounts and not estimates, we will be at - 1%. So it's a deficit divided by three. In structural terms, we stood at -2.6 per cent in 2014. We went up to - 0.86% in 2017. Mrs Wouters pointed out that, finally, we are seeing a path to a decline in debt which had reached a maximum level of 107 % in 2014 and which, in fact, is still not below 100 % but reaches a level of 101.2%. As you know, we have always worked on several levels. We have actually worked on sanitation, but also on economic recovery and structural reforms. The work on these last two points cannot be done at the expense of fiscal consolidation, the opposite being true as well. I have heard several comments and comments on the growth differential, noticed, established or projected for Belgium in relation to the European average. In short, I will remind you of the work of the National Bank of Belgium, which explained this differential clearly. An explanation of the economic structures justifies this differential, as well as an explanation in terms of catching up with the poorest economies compared to the rest of the European Union area. In addition, there were also convergence effects. I have spoken to you about the results of this work in terms of fiscal consolidation. In terms of job creation, it is 230 000 jobs created between 2015 and 2018, with the fact that these jobs are created mainly in the private sector as a notable point. I hear different things, but the figures show that the real disposable income of our citizens, all incomes combined, has increased significantly since the establishment of this government, which was not the case under the previous government. Before that, we were aware of changes in disposable income that were down or peaked at a maximum of 0.3%, compared to 1.8%. I have also received many comments and questions about the weight of interest rates and the evolution of interest rates and the economic situation in the results we can obtain. If you analyse the primary balance, you will see that the reduction in the nominal deficit is mainly due to the increase in the primary balance. The primary balance is the balance without the weight of the interest expense. The same applies to the structural primary balance, i.e. abstraction of interest and the economic situation. You can see that this structural primary balance doubles between 2014 and 2018. This proves that the results achieved are not, as I have heard, due to changes in interest rates and to changes in economic conditions. Indeed, the evidence shows that the result is mainly due to measures taken by the government. It is clear that interest rate developments play a role as well as changes in economic conditions. But thanks to primary balance indicators and primary structural balance indicators, the observed result is that of the measures taken by the government. Is the work done yet? Of course not! As we know, there is an unchanged policy deviation between 2018 and 2019. It's not a surprise. This deviation was already part of the multi-year projections as early as 2016. That puts us back a few years. We know that to keep even the same level of deficit as it is now, we will have to make efforts. And it is because we are strong in this knowledge that we have estimated the fiscal trajectory in the stability programme as we have established it. We wanted to smooth out the effort to make, not the improvement of structural balances, as some have probably misunderstood. Many discussions were held to learn about our intentions and what fiscal year would be achieved for 2019 and the years to come. I always said, I don't give the numbers until they exist. As regards budgetary effort, we have not re-run the machines over the following years. We will therefore await the results of the monitoring committee. I already hear differences of opinion (which is natural, because we are in Parliament) as to whether to do the work in terms of revenue or expenditure. I give time, that is to say, to the meeting between the various competent ministers to take the decisions that will prove necessary. But in any case, there is a certainty: we will have to do this work together, just as I hope our Red Devils will do this evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u77	Mr President, of course I agree with what Mrs Wilmès said. I would like to add a few things without being too extensive, because we have already discussed a lot of technical aspects in committee, as chairman of the committee Van Rompuy said. I am thinking, for example, of the advance payments in corporation taxes and the division between what is structural, as a result of the tightening of penalty rates, and what is not structural. The EUR 460 million tax shift correction has also been explained in detail. What is the bottomline, both nominal and real? We have adjusted the budgetary situation to 2 per cent of GDP, which is about 9 billion. This is an undeniable reality. With regard to income, I would like to point out once again that we left with EUR 114.8 billion in income for 2017. In the end, that was EUR 600 billion more. This year we expect EUR 119.1 billion. On the basis of the latest data and despite the fact that we do have to take account of a possible slight decline in growth, we will certainly achieve that amount. Dan kom ik tot de taxshift, waarover de Nationale Bank, het Federaal Planbureau, de OESO, het IMF zeggen: "The returns are considerable, especially in terms of job creation, which is so high that it can almost be described as historical." Interest rates have been very low for quite some time, and of course this has a great deal to do with the European Central Bank's policy, both in terms of short-term interest rates and in terms of long-term interest rates. However, it is seen that other countries which also belong to the euro area pay a lot more for their loans than Belgium pays. The low interest rates must therefore also be earned in one piece, especially in terms of the spread vis-à-vis Germany, for which we score very well. We do indeed have low interest rates, but that is also, for a part, the credit of the government. The Belgian Debt Agency has done an excellent job with regard to debt management, and I have constantly encouraged it. When the government took office, the average weighted maturity of the government debt was seven years. Meanwhile, it's almost ten years old. This is a significant increase and that, of course, implicitly provides a high level of coverage in relation to interest rate increases, which will certainly occur in the future, possibly at the end of 2019 or even later. Finally, I would like to make a brief comment on Belfius, which several interpleans asked for. The dossier is technically ready, both as far as my cabinet is concerned and as far as Belfius itself is concerned. There are still a few political buttons to be worked out. That will happen during the conclave, and it is, of course, the government's privilege to finally deliberate about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u78	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The limited general discussion is closed. The limited general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u79	We begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law on the first adjustment of the Budget for the financial year 2018. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3036/1) We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the first adjustment to the 2018 Budget Year Ways and Means budget. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3036/1) The draft law has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. * * * * * * * Amendments tabled: Amendments tabled: Art. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 3 - Karin Jiroflée cs (3036/4) • 4 - Karin Jiroflée cs (3036/4) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments which have been tabled, the article which has been retained, together with the tables in the annex and on the whole, will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments, the article and the annexed tables reserved, as well as on the whole, will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u80	We begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law on the first adjustment of the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2018. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3037/1+2+3) We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the first adjustment to the General Estimates for the 2018 fiscal year. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt. 85, 4) (3037/1+2+3) * * * * * * * Amendments tabled: Amendments tabled: Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 1.01.2 • 3 - Raoul Hedebouw cs (3037/7) • 2 - Karin Jiroflée cs (3037/7) ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the article that has been adopted and the tables in the annex and all will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments, the article and the annexed reserved tables, as well as on the whole, will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u81	The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u82	Mr President, I refer to the excellent written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u83	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. The vote on the amendment of the 2018 budget will take place later. The vote on the 2018 budget adjustment will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u84	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The reporter, Mrs Lijnen, refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u85	Mr President, I will be brief. However, I would like to point out one point in this bill, which states, inter alia, that a merchant, when a customer makes a payment by Bancontact, will no longer be able to request a contribution from his client. Our colleague Isabelle Galant said in committee that her group, the MR, is fully supportive of the bill. Soon after, it still asks the question: electronic payment is too expensive for small traders. Finally, like her group, she will still vote for the project. Clearly, there is unreserved support for the bill rather than for the situation of small traders. The minister simply said: "Traders retain the possibility of refusing electronic payments for a very small amount". What I mean is, it's not just... [[Brouhahaha]] Is it possible to talk?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u86	Laissez parler M. Van Hees!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u87	It is not only transactions on small amounts that are problematic for small traders (e.g. a newspaper merchant). What is really a problem is their gross margin. For example, for a newspaper merchant, the sale of a prepaid Neosurf card of 15 euros, for example, will bring him a gross profit of 0.10% on this 15 euros, i.e. a gross margin of 1.5 cents. The cost of the Bancontact operation, which exceeds 10 euros, is 7.32 cents. The cost of the Bancontact transaction is five times higher than the margin realized by the newspaper dealer. There is a real problem for some products, the amount of which is not necessarily small, but the margin is very small. In this regard, the government has a choice. We can charge the consumer. That's it. That's a good thing. We can charge the little shopkeeper. It is obviously the option that is chosen. But one option that could have been considered, but which is unfortunately not, is to use the multinational Atos, which makes significant profits on Bancontact transactions, or the companies that reward small traders with ridiculous margins. Clearly, this was not the government's view. A good thing for consumers, but a bad thing for small traders. Once again, multinationals are spared.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u88	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u89	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3131/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3131/4) The draft law has 16 articles. The bill has 16 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u90	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u91	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Conseil Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u92	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u93	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to keep it shorter than most; no one needs to panic. What is being proposed here today and what will be voted on is, in a way, historic. After all, we are changing the law of May 24, 1888. That law even went back to a situation of the 17th century, when the Liège prince-bishop was lord and master of the arms trade and arms manufacture. In 1888, they wished to give them a legal status, i.e. a sui generis statute. The test bench was initially instructed to test the weapons, to test them for safety reasons. Gradually, powers have been added over the years. Anyway, the test bench had an outdated structure and it needed to be replaced. I can tell you that there were a number of problems. I would like to outline five very briefly. There were security and access control problems at the test bench. Until recently, it was possible for people with bad intentions to get very close to the arsenal with thousands of weapons. They have done something about it. There were problems with the well-being of the workers, for example through saturnism or lead poisoning. Several people contacted me from Liège. Yes, one has to get to an N-VA from Liège to sue the problems at work, because one has no confidence in the unions at the test bench. To this end, I have intervened several times. There were also administrative problems. The Statute avoided all possible controls, such as accounting and financial controls. There were problems of integrity, with, as a low point, the arrest of the former director, who was in prison for some time and still, to the great annoyance of the staff of the test bench, continues to enjoy all the benefits under the pretext of presumption of innocence. There were problems with the Director's OGP status. He was OGP for the whole country, but he has a self-righteous attitude, so that, among other things, gun owners in both Wallonia and Flanders, Registrys and courts already had many problems. So the approach to the dossier is certainly not premature. Both the proposal I tabled and the government's draft want to address the problems. I would like to mention very briefly a few decisions. A very important decision is the adaptation of the test bench status. From now on, the test bench will be a public institution, unlike in the past, when seven weapons masters were in charge. As an institution of public utility, the test bench shall have at least one board of directors. Two government commissioners are also appointed, who have to answer to the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Justice. In certain cases, the directors of government may invoke the right of veto. There will be greater transparency, as the test bench will be obliged to submit certain reports, such as accounting and financial reports and annual reports. In addition, staff will now be covered by the law of 16 March 1954 on public utility institutions. This provides staff with a good statute, while in the past any disputes could not even be brought before ordinary courts. It is also very important that the director is no longer OGP for the whole country and the arms law, but only for the arms test banking law and its implementing decisions. In this way we hope that many differences of interpretation will be avoided. We hope that the new board of directors will create order in certain areas. Finally, it becomes possible to set up antennas. Colleagues of the PS were afraid that the goal was the relocation of the test bench from Liège. That is not the intention, however, either of the proposal or of the draft. The aim is to create the possibility of creating antennas. The Management Board may decide on this matter. These antennas can be found in both Arlon or Charleroi in Wallonia and in Ghent or Bruges in Flanders. Those who have to turn to the test bench should avoid large movements. It's the board of directors that will decide. Should a foreign trial bank ever ask for a branch in Belgium, it cannot be stopped under European regulations which prohibit a monopoly. However, that is not the issue at the moment; for the sake of completeness. In the interests of the citizen and the possessor of weapons, we would like to go a step further. We want good cooperation with the arms dealers. There are many arms dealers, both in Wallonia and Flanders, who are prepared to take on a number of tasks such as the destruction or conversion of weapons. The threshold fear of offering their weapons is very low. That is why we should seize the opportunity to cooperate with arms dealers. That will be in the interests of safety; I would certainly go for that. In conclusion, the draft represents an important step forward, which our group will certainly approve. I think everyone should.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u95	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this proposed reform. The position of the PS is clear and has been developed by Jean-Marc Delizée in committee. On the one hand, it is obvious that the structure - which dates back a very long time - no longer meets our standards. It is therefore perfectly legitimate to modernise it. We do not oppose it. On the other hand, there are other elements in this modernisation which is not the driving force behind this reform. Among other things, there is the wish of Flanders for a satellite antenna to be created, particularly in Ghent. Nor are we opposed to it. It is legitimate for Flemish hunters to have a public service located closer to their home. However, this bill goes further. First, it removes the idea that the weapons test bench is established in Liège. You understand that it disturbs us. Second, it allows the King to decide, by royal decree, to move the seat of the test bench, in addition to creating antennae elsewhere in the territory. This is included in clause 4 of the bill. That's much more worrying. It is clearly the door open to the relocation of the activities of the Liège test bench. From now on, the Ministers of Economy and Justice will be able to decide, by simple royal decree, to relocate this activity elsewhere in the territory. I cannot understand that the MR did not intervene in the Council of Ministers to correct this point! In committee, we tabled a few amendments to correct it, and Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, with some uneasiness, seemed to discover the manoeuvre and abstained on our amendments. We can't understand that we can go in that direction. It should be noted that 70 per cent of the activities of the arms test bench relate to weapons originating from the FN of Herstal, whose sole shareholder is the Walloon Region. The Walloon economy would therefore be adversely affected by the relocation of this test bench. This situation must therefore be taken seriously. In the face of our fears, what is the answer? The MR responded that Minister Peeters must be trusted. I can hear you. Minister Peeters states that he does not intend to move the seat as long as a major arms producer is established nearby. But he will not forever be Minister of Economy. What about what will happen afterwards? This situation is insecure! That is why we have tabled some amendments. If the position is clearly not to relocate, then these amendments should be adopted. If they are not supported, we can only conclude that this is once again a Community position endorsed by the MR.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u96	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this text thoroughly modernises the rules governing the test bench, which dates back to the 19th century. It was necessary to shape its structure, its obligations and its functioning. The basis for this revision is the redesign of the test bench management structure to make it more balanced, integrating independent administrators. I know that some people are concerned about this, but we argue that there are independent directors on the test bench, with an emphasis on transparency. Here, too, it bothers. This bill offers the board of directors the opportunity to establish branches of the firearms test bench on the national territory, whether in Arlon or Ostend, in Liège or Bruges, in any region of the country. This will reduce the number of movements to firearms users. As pointed out in committee, there is no question of moving the seat of Liège. Historically, the test bench is established in Liège because the arms industry is installed there. We want him to stay in Liège. The MR Group supports this project and welcomes the modernisation of this institution. This bill is moving in the right direction. It brings modernisation and transparency. Its relocation is absolutely not on the agenda. I think it is much more interesting to reassure the workers and explain the advantages of this text rather than sow doubt, as some do.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u97	Mr Degroote, we are certainly not opposed to the modernisation of the old law. Let's get that straight. We are in favour of transparency and a better framework. We are also for the provision of a number of antennas. We welcome that. What we regret, however, is that the registered office cannot be located in Liège. In committee, the Minister indicated that this was not a problem for him. He'd even settle that through a royal decree. We ask ourselves that if we are going to leave the seat in Liège, why not just leave it in the law? If I may plagiarize Open Vld: just do it! It's not a problem. The intention is to assign the registered office to Liège by a royal decree. Then why isn't that included in the law itself? Why do you need to cause unnecessary panic among the staff? We think this is very inappropriate. It's not done. That is why we will abstain from this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u98	Mr President, I was not in committee because I sat in others. I have therefore read the reports and the interventions. Together with my group as a whole, we share the need to modernise and improve the governance of this test bench. We also share the idea of setting up test bench antennas to prevent the movement of people in need throughout the country. One element, however, disturbs us. Everyone says in his speeches that the test bench will remain in Liège for all the reasons that have been cited by each other. This is also a concern for us. In his response, the minister said that he did not intend to move the test bench at this time. However, you reject the amendments which have been proposed and which simply say that the test bench will remain in Liège and that there will be an opportunity to create antennas. We will therefore support the amendments tabled which specify this basic location which everyone here says they support.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u99	Mr President, in the wake of previous statements on the problem of the firearms test bench, if you allow me, we should put things in context. These are firearms and many weapons of collectors or hunters. Therefore, if the firearms test bench is at the moment where it is, that is to say, in Liège, the reason is simply historical. Armoury is a long-standing activity in the region of Liège. This firearms test bench is done in collaboration with all armors and professionals in the sector. They intend to continue to implement the momentum that is theirs to enable this bench to work in the collaboration that is currently at the heart of their missions. I would like to recall that some staff are working on it and that he too is wondering about this text, which changes the location of the test bench, even if the minister says that this is not his intention. We are not opposed to regional cells. But why not include in the text rather than elsewhere than the registered office is preserved where it is, in the Liège region. In view of the arms factories nearby, the cooperation with the gunmen and all the historical work that has already been done, I will support the amendment tabled in this respect by my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u100	Mr President, I have already heard all the speakers say that either the test bench should remain in Liège or, in order to reassure the others, there is no intention at all to move the seat. The penalty is that a member of a Flemish party, the sp.a, thinks it is not done that it is not in the law that the seat should remain in Liège. In my opinion, the fact that a member of a Flemish party wants to register such a provision in the law is inappropriate and not done. Common sense at the sp.a seems to have exploded. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of modernisation and, after 130 years, it was also necessary in this law. The fact, however, that the seat of the test bench is located in Liège is certainly a problem for us. Through this modernisation, the test bench is now being turned into a public utility category C. It is customary to establish the seat of federal government institutions and public utility institutions in the bilingual capital and not one seat in a French-speaking region. It is appropriate to establish the seat of the test bench in the bilingual capital, so that neither part of the country is too short. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. It is not only the most correct but also the most economical solution, both for the institution itself and for its users, knowing that the test bench must be completely self-sufficient. It can only achieve this with the rates it collects from all users of its services. It is laid down by law that the test bench may not impose any financial burden on the State Treasury. It is therefore also the most economical solution to establish the seat in the bilingual capital. When I hear today's speeches, I understand that my amendment is very difficult for almost all parties. For this reason, in the event that the test bench is not moved to the bilingual capital, I have tabled a sub-amendment in the second order. There is no evidence from the Committee's discussions that an antenna will be provided in the Dutch language area. However, Mr Degroote pointed out that Article 4 (2) of the law provides that this can be done, since the Governing Board may decide to do so. However, in view of the fact that the test bench has to be fully financed, the creation of an antenna is discouraged, as an antenna would entail a lot of additional costs, which will be passed on to users. Of course, the latter cannot and must not be the intention. The Flemish part of the country is also entitled to a full service with regard to the services provided by the test bench. Anyone who does not agree with the location of the seat in our bilingual capital must at least approve my sub-amendment, which will ensure that an antenna is set up in the Dutch-speaking area. With regard to the composition of the Management Board, I have also tabled two amendments. As stated in the present draft law, the board does not represent representative interest groups of gun collectors, sportsmen, hunters and special guards. However, they are highly involved in these matters. We therefore believe that it is appropriate to provide for them a place in the governing bodies of the test bench. That is the intention of the first part of our third amendment. With the second part of that amendment, we want to address something that is also stated in this draft law, the derogatory parity. The Flemings are the majority of the inhabitants of this country, but in the representation they always make fifty-fifty. This is already the case in the distribution of mandates on the language-parity basis provided for in this legislative proposal. We propose that the Flemings, who are the majority in this country, also be given the majority on the board of directors and thus change the composition into five Dutch speakers and three French speakers. So far, my explanation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u101	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u102	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3111/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3111/4) The draft law has 20 articles. The bill has 20 clauses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u103	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u104	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 2, 4 and 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u105	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 3, 5 and 7 to 20.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u106	******
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u107	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Klaps. He shall refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u108	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3069/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3069/3) The draft law has 46 articles. The bill has 46 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u109	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u110	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 3 May 2018, a third call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 17 May 2018 for the mandates of first and second alternate of a French-speaking member of the Standing Committee on the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of May 3, 2018, a third call for candidates was published in the Moniteur belge of May 17, 2018 for the terms of first and second alternate members of a Francophone member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Two applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. Two applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit. Mrs Evelien De Kezel has submitted her application in Dutch. Ms. Evelien De Kezel applied in Dutch. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 June 2018, I propose that Mrs Evelien De Kezel's candidacy be dismissed as inadmissible, since the alternate members should replace the French-speaking member of the Committee, where appropriate. I also propose that a new call be made to candidates for the appointment of a second alternate of a French-speaking member of the Committee I in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 June 2018, I propose that you declare Ms.Evelien De Kezel's candidacy inadmissible since the alternate members are required, if necessary, to replace the Francophone member of the Committee. I also propose that you publish in the Belgian Monitor a new call for candidates for the term of office of second alternate member of a French-speaking member of the R Committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u111	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of the effective members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on embryo-deprived animals in vitro. The next item is the election for the appointment of the effective members of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. In accordance with Article 9 (2) of the Law of 11 May 2003 on embryo research in vitro, the Commission shall consist of: - eight doctors (four effective members and four alternates); - eight PhDs in science (four effective members and four alternates); - four lawyers (two effective members and two alternates); - eight experts in the ethical and social sciences (four effective members and four alternates). In accordance with Article 9(2) of the Act of 11 May 2003 on research into in vitro embryos, the Commission shall consist of: - eight medical doctors (four actual members and four alternates); - eight science doctors (four actual members and four alternates); - four jurists (two actual members and two alternates); - eight experts in ethical matters and social sciences (four active members and four alternates). The Commission shall have no less than one third of the same sex. She has as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members. An alternate with the same qualification shall be appointed for each effective member. The Commission may not count less than one third of the members of each sex. It has as many French-speaking members as Dutch-speaking members. For each effective member, an alternate who has the same qualifications shall be appointed. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 9 May 2018, only the effective members will be appointed. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting on 9 May 2018, we will only proceed with the appointment of the actual members. By letter of 15 May 2018, the Public Health Office was asked to publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of an alternate member. By letter of 15 May 2018, the SPF Santé publique was asked to publish a new call to candidates for the terms of alternate members in the Belgian Monitor. The effective members and alternates shall be appointed by the Chamber by a simple majority of the votes cast. The actual members and alternates shall be appointed by the Chamber, by a simple majority of the votes cast. The term of office of effective Member of the Commission shall be four years and renewable. The effective member's term of office shall be four years and shall be renewable. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 19 April 2018. Nominations were announced in plenary on April 19, 2018. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed (Doc. 3201/1). The document bearing the names of the candidates was distributed to you (Doc. No 3201/1). The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. In order to vote, one has to place a cross in the box opposite the names of the chosen candidates. Vote notes with more votes than there are mandates are invalid. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the names of the selected candidates. Ballot papers containing more votes than there are warrants to be filled shall be void. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ms Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr Kristof Calvo were appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr. Kristof Calvo were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call. Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u112	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills: 1. Draft law on the optimisation of aid to employers investing in a zone in difficulty, No. 3148/1. 1. Draft law on the optimisation of aid to employers who invest in an area in difficulty, No. 3148/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u113	Mr President, this draft law addresses some of the problems that have been raised in practice. For example, the time limit within which the form must be submitted is too rigid, making it almost impossible for a number of companies to submit the form in good time. This draft law simplifies the rules in force in this area. The urgency is also demonstrated by the fact that the current law does not allow investments to be made by a company other than the employer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u114	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u115	2. Draft law establishing the Information Security Committee and amending various laws on the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, No. 3185/1. 2. Draft law establishing the Information Security Committee and amending various laws concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, No 3185/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u116	Mr President, the government requests that this draft law be dealt with with with urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. We motivate this question by the fact that this draft law regulates the proper and privacy-compliant electronic data sharing in the social sector and in the healthcare sector. In addition, this project amends the various other laws necessary for the various inspection services to continue to carry out their tasks as before, taking into account the GDPR rules that have been in force since May 25, 2018. Finally, the project also includes a legal basis for the development of a data warehouse at the National Social Security Office to enable it to detect fraud more quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u117	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u118	3. Draft law on the bundled financing of low variable hospital care, No. 3189/1. 3. Draft law on the pooled financing of low variability hospital care, No. 3189/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u119	Mr President, we are also calling for Article 51. This was approved in committee last Tuesday. As it will have to start on 1 January, it will have to be dealt with in good time in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u120	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u121	4. Draft law amending, as regards the amount of the income replacement allowance, the Law of 27 February 1987 on allowances for persons with disabilities, No. 3200/1. 4. Draft law amending the Act of 27 February 1987 on allowances for persons with disabilities with regard to the amount of the income replacement allowance, No. 3200/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the income replacement allowance is granted to persons who, because of their disability, are unable to earn a full income from work and who have not built up sufficient rights to qualify for another social security allowance. The draft law contains two key elements. Firstly, it concerns a separate fixing of the basic amounts for the three categories of beneficiaries of the income replacement allowance or IVT, which allows the amount for a given category to be increased in the future on the basis of the risk of poverty. Moreover, there is the mentioned increase of 40 euros per month for category C beneficiaries, as of 1 July 2018. The left certainly rejoices. So the disabled are getting money. Let's treat that quickly, I'd say.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u123	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u124	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection - and with the exception of proposal No. 3190/1 by Mr Siegfried Bracke who postpones his request for consideration - I consider it adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of proposal No. 3190/1 by Mr Siegfried Bracke, which requests the postponement of the request to take account of his proposal, I shall consider it to be accepted and refer the proposals to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 June 2018, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mr Bert Wollants and Mr Werner Janssen) amending the Code of Economic Law as regards the reimbursement of fees to passengers not taking part in a flight, No. 3195/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Werner Janssen and Mrs Rita Gantois) amending the Act of 28 July 1981 approving the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, and the Annexes, drawn up at Washington on 3 March 1973, and amending the Convention, adopted at Bonn on 22 June 1979 and the Royal Decree of 9 April 2003 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade in this field, introducing a general ban on the import, export and re-export of ivory, No. 3202/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u125	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Mr Jan Vercammen, Mrs Yoleen Van Camp, Mr Wouter Beke, Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mr Jef Van den Bergh) amending the co-ordinated law of 14 July 1994 on compulsory medical care insurance and benefits in respect of reduced reimbursements for benefits in kind provided by non-conventional physiotherapists, No. 3198/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u126	- the legislative proposal (Mr Roel Deseyn and Mr Raf Terwingen and Mrs Sonja Becq) for administrative simplification and greater transparency in the operation of bailiffs, No. 3199/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u127	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Peter Buysrogge) to ban the use by the Belgian Defence Department of droids and armed drones of the use of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3203/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u128	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and Mr Marcel Cheron) on the introduction of flex parking and associated signalling, No. 3205/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u129	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 June 2018, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Bert Wollants and Werner Janssen) amending the Code of Economic Law with regard to the refund of taxes to passengers who have not taken part in a flight, No 3195/1; - the draft law (Mr Werner Janssen and Mrs Rita Gantois) amending the Act of 28 July 1981 approving the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora and the Annexes, done at Washington on 3 March 1973, as well as the Amendment to the Convention, adopted at Bonn on 22 June 1979 and the Royal Decree of 9 April 2003 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by controlling their trade, introducing a general ban on the import, export and re-export of elephant ivory, No. 3202/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u130	- the bill (Mrs Nathalie Muylle, Mr Jan Vercammen, Ms Yoleen Van Camp, Mr Wouter Beke, Ms Els Van Hoof and Mr Jef Van den Bergh) amending the law on compulsory health care insurance and allowances coordinated on 14 July 1994 with regard to the reduced rate of reimbursement of benefits provided by unconventional physiotherapists, No 3198/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u131	- the bill (MM. Roel Deseyn and Raf Terwingen and Mrs Sonja Becq) to simplify administrative and improve transparency within the framework of the operation of judicial officers, n° 3199/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u132	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Peter Buysrogge) prohibiting the use by Belgian Defence of killer robots and armed drones, No 3203/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u133	- the motion for a resolution (MM. Stefaan Van Hecke and Marcel Cheron) on the introduction of flexible parking and related signs, No. 3205/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u134	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u135	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee of the Society on 19 June 2018. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Health, the Environment and the Social Renewal of 19 June 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 268/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 268/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Muriel Gerkens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Dirk Janssens. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u136	Yes 77 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstention? Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u137	Mr. President, I'm pairing up with Mr. Olivier Chastel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u138	Mr. Chair, I'm pairing with Mrs. Griet Smaers from the CD&V. So that some people don't think she's watching football in front of her television, I'm saying she's not here for family reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u139	Mr President, I also have a pairing agreement with my colleague Mrs Daphné Duméry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u140	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on 20 June 2018. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises of 20 June 2018. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 270/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Karine Lalieux; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 270/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Karine Lalieux; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u141	Yes 76 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 133 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u142	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 99 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3047/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3047/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u143	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3056/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3056/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u144	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 77 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 56 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (2969/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (2969/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u145	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3114/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3114/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u146	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3103/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3103/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Smeyers voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u147	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 132 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a bill. (2816/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be referred as a bill to the Senate. (2816/6) Mr Bonte has voted in favour and therefore not against it. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u148	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a bill. (2817/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be referred as a bill to the Senate. (2817/ 8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u149	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u150	Complemented by the Senate As amended by the Senate Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. As it has been amended, it will be returned to the Senate. (2810/12) As a result, the House passed the bill. As it was amended, it will be referred to the Senate. (2810/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u151	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Karin Jiroflée cs on Article 2. (3036/4) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Karin Jiroflée cs to Article 2. (3036/4) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Karin Jiroflée cs on Article 2. (3036/4) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Karin Jiroflée cs to Article 2. (3036/4) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u152	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted as well as the tables in annex. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted, together with the annexed tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u153	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 77 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3036/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3036/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u154	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 1.1.02. (3037/7) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 1.01.2. (3037/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Yes No. 121 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Karin Jiroflée cs on Article 1.1.02. (3037/7) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Karin Jiroflée cs to Rule 1.01.2. (3037/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes [[45]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1.01.2 was adopted as well as the tables in the annex. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1.01.2 was adopted, as well as the tables in the annex. Kattrin Jadin voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 76 Yes No. [[55]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3037/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3037/ 8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u156	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 131 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the 2018 budgetary adjustment of the Chamber of Representatives. Accordingly, the House adopts the 2018 budget adjustment of the House of Representatives. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3131/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3131/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 6 by Jean-Marc Delizée cs on the inscription. (3111/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Jean-Marc Delizée cs on the title. (3111/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 50 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Top has voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Jean-Marc Delizée cs to Article 2. (3111/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Jean-Marc Delizée cs to Article 2. (3111/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u159	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Jean-Marc Delizée cs on Article 4. (3111/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Jean-Marc Delizée cs to Article 4. (3111/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u160	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 4. (3111/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 4. (3111/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 4 Yes No. 128 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Özen and Mr Devin voted against. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 4. (3111/5) Vote on amendment No. 10 by Barbara Not css to article 4. (3111/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u161	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 6. (3111/5) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 6. (3111/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u162	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 6. (3111/5) Vote on amendment No 12 by Barbara Not css to article 6. (3111/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u163	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 87 Yes No. [[22]] No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3111/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3111/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u165	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3069/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3069/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u166	In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole of the proposal of special law must be adopted by a majority in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each language group are present and that the total of the yes votes in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole proposal for a special law must be adopted by a majority of the votes cast in each language group, provided that a majority of the members of each group are present and that the total of the positive votes cast in both language groups reach two thirds of the votes cast. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Barbara Pas cs on Article 2. (2815/9) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Barbara Pas cs to Article 2. (2815/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) F I'll see you later. N Yes 0 4 4 Yes Non 56 130 74 No. Abstensions 1 1 0 Abstentions Total 57 135 78 Total The majority of the votes in each language group have not been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The majority of votes in each group shall not be cast. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall not be cast. The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Olivier Maingain cs on Article 2. (2815/9) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Olivier Maingain cs to Article 2. (2815/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) F I'll see you later. N Yes 8 12 4 Yes Non 40 97 57 No. Abstensions 8 24 16 Abstentions Total 56 133 77 Total The majority of the votes in each language group have not been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The majority of votes in each group shall not be cast. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall not be cast. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Olivier Maingain cs to omit Article 3. (2815/9) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Olivier Maingain cs to delete Article 3. (2815/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) F I'll see you later. N Yes 14 34 20 Yes Non 19 77 58 No. Abstensions 23 23 0 Abstentions Total 56 134 78 Total The majority of the votes in each language group have not been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority has not been reached. The majority of votes in each group shall not be cast. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall not be cast. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u167	In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole of the proposal of special law must be adopted by a majority in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each language group are present and that the total of the yes votes in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole proposal for a special law must be adopted by a majority of the votes cast in each language group, provided that a majority of the members of each group are present and that the total of the positive votes cast in both language groups reach two thirds of the votes cast. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) F I'll see you later. N Yes 56 130 74 Yes Non 0 2 2 No. Abstensions 1 3 2 Abstentions Total 57 135 78 Total The majority of the votes cast in each language group have been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority has been achieved. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of special law. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft special law. (2815/10) The majority of votes in each group shall be cast. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall be cast. Accordingly, the House adopts the special bill. It will be passed on as a special bill to the Senate. (2815/10) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u168	Complemented by the Senate As amended by the Senate In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the whole of the draft special law must be adopted by a majority in each language group, provided that the majority of the members of each language group are present and that the total of the yes votes in both language groups reaches two thirds of the votes cast. In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitution, the provisions and the draft special law as a whole must be adopted by a majority of the votes cast in each linguistic group, provided that a majority of the members of each group are present and that the total of the positive votes cast in both linguistic groups reach two thirds of the votes cast. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) F I'll see you later. N Yes 55 127 72 Yes Non 0 0 0 No. Abstensions 1 5 4 Abstentions Total 56 132 76 Total The majority of the votes cast in each language group have been reached. The majority of those present in each language group have been reached. The 2/3 majority has been achieved. Consequently, the Court adopts the draft special law. As it has been amended, it will be returned to the Senate. (2802/12) The majority of votes in each group shall be cast. The quorum of the presences in each linguistic group is reached. A majority of 2/3 of the votes shall be cast. As a result, the House passed the special bill. As it was amended, it will be referred to the Senate. (2802/12) Mr Friart voted in favour. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u169	Votes 127 Votants Blank or invalid 4 White or invalid Valid 123 Valables Perfect majority 62 Absolute majority 1. Artsen 1. Doctors in medicine Mrs Diane De Neubourg received 115 votes. Diane De Neubourg won 115 votes. Mrs Fabienne Devreker received 114 votes. Fabienne Devreker won 114 votes. Mrs Sophie Perrier d.O.Hauterive received 0 votes. Sophie Perrier d'Hauterive won 0 votes. Mr Robert Rubens received 114 votes. Mr Robert Rubens won 114 votes. Mrs Karen Sermon has received one vote. Mrs Karen Sermon won one vote. Mr Yves Sznajer received 119 votes. Yves Sznajer won 119 votes. Mr Willem Verpoest received one vote. Mr. Willem Verpoest obtained one vote. Since Mrs Diane De Neubourg has received 115 votes, which is the absolute majority, she has been appointed as an effective member of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on Embroidery In vitro. Diane De Neubourg, having obtained 115 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. As Mrs Fabienne Devreker has received 114 votes, this is the absolute majority, she has been appointed an effective member of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on Embroidery In vitro. Ms Fabienne Devreker, having obtained 114 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. Since Mr Robert Rubens has received 114 votes, which is the absolute majority, he has been appointed an effective member of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on Embroidery In vitro. Mr Robert Rubens, having obtained 114 votes, the absolute majority, is appointed as an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. Since Mr Yves Sznajer has received 119 votes, which is the absolute majority, he has been appointed an effective member of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on Embroidery In vitro. Mr Yves Sznajer, having obtained 119 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. 2. Doctors in science 2. Doctors in Science Mrs Sophie Debrock received 115 votes. Sophie Debrock won 115 votes. Mrs Virginie Gridelet received 114 votes. Virginie Gridelet won 114 votes. Mr Björn Heindryckx received one vote. Mr Björn Heindryckx obtained 1 vote. Ms. Usha Punjabi received one vote. Ms. Usha Punjabi obtained 1 vote. Mr Charles Susanne received 109 votes. Mr. Charles Susanne won 109 votes. Mr Joris Vermeesch received 111 votes. Mr. Joris Vermeesch obtained 111 votes. Since Mrs Sophie Debrock has received 115 votes, which is the absolute majority, she has been appointed an effective member of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on embryo-debris in vitro. Sophie Debrock, having obtained 115 votes, the absolute majority, is appointed as an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. Since Mrs Virginie Gridelet has received 114 votes, which is the absolute majority, she has been appointed an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on Embryotic Tissues in vitro. Ms. Virginie Gridelet, having obtained 114 votes, the absolute majority, is appointed as an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. Since Mr Charles Susanne has received 109 votes, which is the absolute majority, he has been appointed an effective member of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on Embroidery In vitro. Mr. Charles Susanne, having obtained 109 votes, the absolute majority, is appointed as an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. Since Mr Joris Vermeesch has received 111 votes, which is the absolute majority, he has been appointed an effective member of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on embryo-in vitro embryos. Mr Joris Vermeesch, having obtained 111 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. 3. Lawyers 3. Lawyers Mrs. Emilie Bekaert received one vote. Ms. Emilie Bekaert obtained 1 vote. Mrs Eleanor Coets received 114 votes. Mrs Eleanor Coets won 114 votes. Mr Sven Gondry received one vote. Mr. Sven Gondry obtained one vote. Mrs Géraldine Mathieu received four votes. Ms Géraldine Mathieu won 4 votes. Mrs. Sarah Panis got 0 votes. Mrs. Sarah Panis won 0 votes. Mrs Alexandra Vanvooren received 113 votes. Ms Alexandra Vanvooren won 113 votes. Mr Geoffrey Willems received 8 votes. Mr Geoffrey Willems obtained 8 votes. Since Mrs Eleanor Coets received 114 votes, which is the absolute majority, she has been appointed as an effective member of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on Embroidery In vitro. Ms. Eleanor Coets, having obtained 114 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. Since Mrs Alexandra Vanvooren has received 113 votes, which is the absolute majority, she has been appointed an effective member of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on embryo-in vitro embryos. Ms Alexandra Vanvooren, having obtained 113 votes, the absolute majority, is appointed as an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. 4. Experts in the ethical and social sciences 4. Experts in ethical and social sciences Mr Jean-Marc Hausman received 122 votes. Mr. Jean-Marc Hausman won 122 votes. Mrs Joséphine Lemaire received 114 votes. Ms Josephine Lemaire won 114 votes. Mrs Heidi Mertes received 115 votes. Mrs Heidi Mertes obtained 115 votes. Mr Guido Pennings received 110 votes. Mr Guido Pennings obtained 110 votes. Mrs Kelly Tilleman has received one vote. Kelly Tilleman won one vote. Mrs Hilde Van de Velde received three votes. Mrs Hilde Van de Velde won 3 votes. Since Mr Jean-Marc Hausman has received 122 votes, which is the absolute majority, he has been appointed an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on embryo-in vitro embryos. Mr. Jean-Marc Hausman, having obtained 122 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. Since Mrs Joséphine Lemaire has received 114 votes, which is the absolute majority, she has been appointed an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on embryo-in vitro embryos. Ms Josephine Lemaire, having obtained 114 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. Since Mrs Heidi Mertes has received 115 votes, which is the absolute majority, she has been appointed an effective member of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on embryo-implantation in vitro. Ms Heidi Mertes, having obtained 115 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. Since Mr Guido Pennings has received 110 votes, which is the absolute majority, he has been appointed an effective member of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on embryo-in vitro embryos. Mr Guido Pennings, having obtained 110 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, is appointed as an effective member of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. There are as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members. There are as many French-speaking members as there are Dutch-speaking members. There's a third member of the same sex. There's a third of the same sex.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-28-54-plenair-ip236x.u170	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 5 July 2018. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, July 5, 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 5 July 2018 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 5 July 2018, at 2.15 p.m.
