ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u1	Karolien Grosemans, Chairman: Colleagues, at the request of the Prime Minister and the Government, Chamber Chairman Siegfried Bracke called this Joint Committee meeting to explain some important purchase files. That is why Minister Vandeput is here with a team of experts. The aim is to provide information. The speakers will be as transparent as possible, taking into account that there are still procedures in place. Mr van der Maelen, I will give you the floor immediately, but first I would like to outline the course of the sitting. I have made an appointment with my colleague, Mr Delizée, chairman of the Committee on Industry. The intention is to first listen to the explanations of the speakers. Questions can then be asked, in a first round and a second round, depending on the size of the group. I shall now give the floor to my colleague. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the issues at stake in the debate which brings us together, for national security, the defence strategy and other international issues, for the budgetary and financial impact and the economic consequences of decisions. The proof is that there are many of us. A long-standing debate in Parliament has been called on this issue, on procedures, decisions to be taken, and on the ins and outs of it. The fact that we have today an exchange of views with the Minister and a series of experts on this important and technically difficult issue in several respects is a good thing in itself. I understand that several groups have been asking for this for several months. It's finally taking place today. That's what I meant in the introduction. I appreciate the fact that the Economy Committee is involved in this joint committee. It is finally a joint commission since there are also important elements in the consequences of the decisions to be taken on "The military and economic aspects of certain planned military purchases". That is what I wanted to say briefly in the introduction. I note with my colleague that there are requests to speak on the organisation of work. I hope that then we can hear the minister and the experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u2	Madam President, I think it is obvious that we are meeting today with the colleagues from the business community, but I wonder why the colleagues from the finance committee are not here. I would very much like to hear the opinion of Eric Van Rompuy, the chairman of that committee, and of the other members of this committee on the budgetary mess that this government will leave behind. If I understand correctly, tomorrow the government will take a decision that will cost the Belgian taxpayer EUR 15 billion over a period of 30 years. I would very much have liked this majority to attach the same importance to the budgetary situation of our country as we do. Can you tell me why the members of the Finance Committee are not here? Is the budget no longer an important issue for this majority? After all, I thought she had made that a main task. Finally, I cannot get the impression that the pressure of time placed on this House, which the President of the Chamber and the Chairman of the Defence Committee unfortunately agree with, has everything to do with the fact that it had to be the F-35 from the start. The Americans have given Belgium an extension of barely 14 days until the end of this week. That is the explanation why we are now being brought together, at the eleventh hour, as a Parliament for a sham, to pretend that this government wants to provide transparency in this dossier. For four years, we've been asking them and we haven't had them. Even today, it's gonna be another charade.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u3	Madam President, Mr President, thank you. Mr President, you have just recalled the crucial importance of this issue for our country. I think this is one of the most important issues in the government and in the legislature, and we are committed to the budget. My colleague Van der Maelen recalled that. I am therefore surprised not to see the Minister of Finance here. It is a matter that engages us politically and involves at least one to two generations in the field of security and defence. Beyond the security and defence aspects, it is also a political ambition that is affirmed through the purchase of large military equipment. First of all, I am surprised that, after the Prime Minister's statements yesterday in the House that he would seek the opinion of the Military Purchases Committee, I was denied that opinion this morning when I asked for this formal opinion from Parliament to be sent. Today, we have a simple briefing. Parliament's opinion was promised yesterday by the Prime Minister himself here in Parliament. It is now rejected by the majority here in Parliament. This is just one of the umpteenth disappointments, one of the umpteenth unfulfilled promises of transparency and of Parliament's involvement in such an important matter. I'll take note of that. I regret it bitterly. I think that on such an important issue as this, it would have been wise for the Prime Minister to keep his promise. Secondly, I am surprised to see only one minister, the Minister of Defence whom I very much welcome, who is on his way and who probably wanted to hang that pen on his hat. This case involves not only the Minister of Defence but also the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of External Relations, as it is a matter that has obvious international implications. We know that this is an eminently political decision and I would not like to have a mere technical meeting here, a partial one, which makes public opinion believe that we have been fully informed. This is a meeting that is being held under American pressure, since it is a matter of responding to the 29 October deadline set by the Americans. It was an agenda and it should be a Belgian and European agenda. This becomes an American agenda made in haste and under American pressure. I regret it again bitterly. I think it is a very strong symbol of how this case has been conducted so far. I conclude by saying that the wording of the convening of our meeting is extremely vague. It refers to "some" military purchases. We do not even know at the start of this work what exactly the meeting will be about. Will it replace the F-16s, replace the F-16s and drones, replace the tanks? We don't know that. We will see as we discuss it. Again, I find that the way in which we organise the work in Parliament is not serious.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u4	Madam President, Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the indignation of my colleagues and, above all, to denounce from the outset the camouflage operation which this government is once again trying to impose on us regarding the replacement of aircraft. Contrary to what is said everywhere, to what the Prime Minister is trying to say in the press, this is not an operation of transparency but a camouflet to which we are invited today. The government sends technical officials to the front, of course, and I thank them for their presence, but I want to say that they arrive a little late in the case. We have been asking for technical information with my group and other colleagues for months. At this stage, we have still not had the hearings of the federated entities on the various important economic benefits for the three regions of our country. Still no answer! And we are sent a Minister of Defense whose courage I salute, but who is a bit on his way. He will obviously not carry this dossier, which we know from the beginning, that he commits the next governments because, under this legislature, no euro will be spent on the replacement of aircraft. I regret, of course, the absence of the Prime Minister, after his statements yesterday. I would remind you that Belgium is being committed for billions of euros and decades. For example, the F-16s were purchased in the 1970s and are still being discussed today, in 2018. That is the importance of the file. I would remind you that, contrary to what was promised to us yesterday, the matter was not dealt with this morning in the Military Procurement Committee. There was a vote and that was rejected. With my colleagues, I am astonished and indignant at the absence of the members of the Finance Committee. I think their views might have been important. Like my colleague Dallemagne, I am also surprised that we do not have an agenda. What are we talking about today? What files? How? Are we talking about all the purchases? As we have already said in the Defence Committee, it is not just the purchase of the F-16s. There are other major defence investment files that are important to our country's economy and, no doubt, would it have been important to deal with them. We don't know if we'll talk about it today. In any case, it seems assumed that we are heading towards the purchase of the F-35s. Therefore, we could have chosen to place the replacement of the F-16s in the perspective of the European defence pillar. It would have been, I think, to bring our actions into line with our European policy by strengthening the European pillar of NATO and European defence. No, Charles Michel buys an American plane! This is the last Belgian story. She'll probably make her laugh abroad. I don't think she'll make us laugh. In any case, it does not make the Socialist Group laugh. Then, while we hesitate to impose austerity on our country, we hire Belgium for a minimum of 15 billion by buying a plane that today – and it is a peak – does not fly because of a succession of incredible technical difficulties. Dear friends, do you know that the American Congress today hesitates to allocate the least dollar to this program of F-35/Block 4 so chaotic? Will we have answers to these questions? I don't know. Colleagues, do you know that wherever the F-35 is purchased, the states have experienced budgetary disappointments? Will we have answers to these questions? I do not think so because they are political answers and we have technicians in front of us, whom I thank for their presence. When I talk about at least 15 billion, I'm afraid I'm out of line. We'll ask the experts later if they can help us understand why we're choosing an aircraft whose cost estimate is revised upwards... Karolien Grosemans, President: Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. This is actually about the regulation of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u5	Madam President, I understand that the majority is not comfortable. I feel a certain annoyance in his head. It is extremely difficult for the majority today to justify the opposite of what the Prime Minister said yesterday. We were told about a transparency operation and we realize that it is a camouflet for a market that will hire our country for 15 billion euros for decades. We are talking about a political decision here, and I see that at this table we will only have technical answers. I can be forced to remain silent on the pretext that we are talking about the order of business, but what is happening here is unworthy and does not correspond to serious parliamentary work, to the level of the market and commitments... Karolien Grosemans, President: Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you have made your point. You are not talking about the organization of work. You can ask your questions later, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u6	I will shut up, but I will not fail to return. I have no doubt that no answer to the questions I have just asked will be given because they disturb this majority in the unconscious choice that it is about to make. Karolien Grosemans, President: I give the floor to Mr Van Mechelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u7	Madam President, I would appreciate it if the opposition's charade would cease. As far as my colleagues in the Committee on Finance and the Budget are concerned, the Minister for Finance, Johan Van Overtveldt, is currently explaining the budget for 2019 in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. That's why I'm here, but not my colleagues. We are also talking about a purchase of about EUR 4 billion. The colleagues of the Committee on Defence are welcome to the Committee on Finance and the Budget to discuss its input into the budget. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the ACAP team. I can't wait to hear their explanation. I understand that quite a few Belgian allies are currently informing themselves with the ACAP team to adopt this methodology and procurement procedure, for which we congratulate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I must first of all welcome the appointment of a new Speaker of the House. Indeed, according to the media, it was Prime Minister Charles Michel who convened the meeting today. If it is in the name of transparency, I welcome it; but in these circumstances, I believe that its presence is required. That, in my view, is the logical continuation of the debate we had yesterday with the Prime Minister. I can't understand that he's not here today. It is fine to shout at transparency, but the first thing would be that he himself would be present here so that this debate would benefit from political enlightenment and not only from the technical lighting offered by whomever we want, by as many people as possible who can shed light on the matter. This absence is not conceivable, especially since the presence of a minister shows the need for a political presence. I do not know whether Minister Vandeput's presence replaces that of the Prime Minister. I don't think so. It has been said: he will soon leave his office. We also know that his former Deputy Chief of Staff is now working for Lockheed Martin, the company that produces the F-35. I therefore do not know whether his presence here is sufficient and satisfactory to inform all the political and technical stakes of the debate. I am afraid that what is presented to us as a "transparency operation" will turn into a "smoke screen operation", since, from the outset, the scope of the debate has been restricted. The technicians were told, "That's what you have to say," and we won't get out of there. In any case, they will not leave the mission given to them. It's not normal. I can understand that the Prime Minister is in his shoes and that he is taking care of his communication. The decision in this case has already been postponed to the post-municipal elections. The "great" elections will take place next year. I understand that spending EUR 15 billion on death devices, while there are so many social, environmental and other needs that are not met, poses a communication problem. All the more reason for making a genuine transparency operation and for him to be present today. Colleagues, I formally request that the Prime Minister be summoned and that he take part in the proceedings this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u9	Madam President, Mr President, the Minister is present and it is a bit regrettable that even before the beginning of the work and the hearing of the technical and political leaders who have come to provide the complete information that my group and I are looking forward to, the opposition is saying words such as "simulacre", "camouflage", "camouflet", "small shoes", etc. My approach to parliamentary work is quite different. I cannot imagine for a moment that the information that will be provided to us will not be of interest to all our colleagues, whether they sit in the majority or in the opposition. From the outset, therefore, rejecting our discussion on the pretext that everything would be distorted or that the people who were interviewed would tell us anything and do so on order, is at first quite offensive to them but, moreover, it does not correspond to the truth. The truth is that, if we look at the parliamentary history of our country, never before will we have been disseminated to Parliament for such an issue, for such important information and, since everyone is talking about transparency, I will also use this term, 'as transparent'. The political choice has not yet been decided. It is the decision of the government. I am pleased that the Prime Minister chose, before making his final decision, to bring all aspects of the matter to Parliament's attention. The dates were mentioned, saying: "This is amazing! We're just a few days from the deadline. We are really at the boot of the Americans, etc." Yes, we can deal with date and agenda issues for as long as we want, but you all know that, ladies and gentlemen, and you too, Madam President: how many months have we lost with the stupidity, the prank committed by the Sp.a. and, in particular, Mr. Van der Maelen, who produced e-mails that we then learned were fake? Finally, no one understood anything at the bazaar that Mr. Van der Maelen. Now he comes to give us lessons by talking about "indignity". I think that, as a Member of Parliament who has blocked parliamentary work and progress on such an important issue, it would be wise for him to stand low and listen to what will be said. He's been blocking such an important case with nonsense for months. So we have no lesson to learn from Mr. Van der Maelen. Madam President, Mr President, together with my group, we are asking you to move forward so that we can finally open up the proceedings, that all the questions which the representatives of the people in this Chamber would like to address to the people who will be heard. This is a great moment of democratic transparency. It's not a masquerade. I find it incredible to denounce before I even listened. That's not happening. You need a little intellectual honesty when you sit in an assembly like this. We must approach the case calmly and listen to what is going to be said. After that, everyone will make his or her own opinion. It's something else. But I don't think it's acceptable to shoot the pianist before he even starts the score.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u10	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, we already agree on one thing, and I am pleased that this is an important dossier. There is consensus on that. This file has a history, starting from a strategic vision. It is always good to start from a certain vision and then to consider what capacity one should have. Defence's air combat capability plays a very important role in the future. One can be for or against, but according to the Strategic Vision must be deployed on air combat capacity. That is a first point. Secondly, from the outset, this government, through Minister Vandeput, has worked hard on transparency, clarity and objective procedures. This was evident in the discussion of the Strategic Vision, as well as in the establishment of the ACAP procedure, which hopefully is now being completed. A lot of hearings were organized and some fake news were distributed here and there, but that's just part of the case and there was a positive opinion from the Army Procurement Commission to continue the objective procedure. Hopefully this one is now in a final phase. So, saying that there was little or no involvement of Parliament does not match the facts. I hope you will all have the courage to acknowledge that, although that may be something else. The Prime Minister asked for a debate to be held in Parliament prior to a possible decision. That's why we're sitting together today. This morning, there was a brief meeting in the Army Procurement Commission. In view of the fact that a discussion was also planned this afternoon, it seemed appropriate for us to have the discussions here and now. I think it would have been crazy to go through two procedures in parallel. I am very much looking forward to the presentation of the Minister and the available technicians. Karolien Grosemans, Chairman: I shall first give the floor to those who have not yet intervened. Those who ask to speak again, I ask for common sense to be used. After all, we are here to listen to an explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u11	Madam President, Mr President, I am always very keen to hear from experts whom, in principle, the committee must invite. Mr. Miller, be reassured, we'll listen to them with interest. Nevertheless, there has been a political fact. We are not here to have technical information. The Prime Minister took the initiative – and gave himself the media advantage – to say that he was going to play transparency. He, personally! It was he who communicated either because he considered that he should have the hand in this matter, or because he considered that, given its importance, he had to speak on behalf of the whole government. He's not here today. There's the deceit. The debate is primarily political in this matter. A priority choice has been made at the political level, i.e. to continue the call for tenders despite the fact that the French government has formulated a proposal for a strategic military partnership. This is a real political debate that we must be able to hold in the presence of the Prime Minister. We must at least be able to question him on this question because he once said, in response to questions that we had asked him, that "all proposals would be compared". Not only in the context of the general invitation to tender, but also the French proposal. Today, this comparison will not be presented by the Prime Minister in person. That is what is at stake, and that is what is at stake in the debate, and that is what is at stake in politics. Of course, we can hear the technicians who will explain to us that in the general invitation to tender there were only two bidders. But that is not the debate. There was an essential preliminary debate: did the government have the will to at least take into account the partnership proposal put forward by the French government? The Prime Minister can eat fries with Mr Macron, but that is not Europe's future. Europe is not just going to a terrace on the Grand Place! When we have essential choices to make, which concern the very future of the concept of a Europe of defence, we need to know whether, in the end, the Prime Minister is doing something else than going to eat French fries at the Grand Place with Mr Macron! Karolien Grosemans, President: I shall first give the floor to those Members who have not yet been mentioned. Mr Hellings, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u12	Madam President, Mr President, we are in total improvisation. Yesterday, several defence colleagues and I – I am sorry for the colleagues who are present for the economic aspects – asked the Prime Minister about matters relating to this market. The latter improvised a response by promising that, in order to guarantee parliamentary control of this market of the century, the Military Purchases and Sales Committee would be convened. It was yesterday at 11:30. We are talking well about the market of the century, which has occupied this assembly for four years. The question is how we will allocate $15 billion over forty years. And we are thus improvising a meeting for which we received the summons last night at 6 p.m., with the aim that we would meet today at 2 p.m. in an unprecedented commission. We have never gathered in this way since the beginning of this market. And you call it "transparency"! Several colleagues and I have asked hundreds of questions about what is going to be said to us today. Two generations of Belgians are involved in a two-hour meeting! Colleagues of the majority, didn't you have to predict the landing of your file? When we are going to invest 3.6 billion euros directly and 15 billion euros for 40 years, involving two generations of fighter pilots, we should land other than by means of such improvisation. Madam President, Mr President, I think it is a lack of respect for democracy and the taxpayer!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u13	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is quite clear that this is an important issue for our country and for the citizens of our country, but also for Parliament. Our group has been calling for transparency from the outset. You will also have noticed over the last few weeks and months how my group has behaved in this matter. We have held very interesting and very good hearings over the last few months, starting in April, with a lot of useful information on all aspects of this dossier. I hear colleagues wondering what we are going to hear here today. I hear other colleagues saying that we do not even know what is on the agenda. Colleagues, I propose that we first listen to the various experts and the Minister. These experts are praised by other countries. Let us listen to the experts who were involved in various purchase files from the front row. Let's not judge until after. It is said here that the government has already decided and that a charade is being staged here. At the moment, nothing has been decided. The government is trying, with the experts, to demonstrate that the procurement procedures in the various files were correctly followed. Let us therefore first listen to the experts and then pass judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u14	Madam President, Mr President, I would like to address you and all my fellow Members. The timing is very strange. Everyone recognizes this, perhaps even the colleagues of the majority. The more parliamentary meetings, the better. I am a Member of Parliament, and parliamentary control is important. Please do not claim that Parliament is converging, one or two days before the decision is taken as a government, as a model of parliamentary control. That's funny! This is a transparency that we have been asking for for years. This is a transparency that must be achieved first and foremost in the Army Procurement Commission. I would like to address the members of the press present here. The Army Purchases Commission is responsible for the military purchases. Do you know when the billion-dollar file on the replacement of the F-16s was last discussed in that competent committee? That was March 15, 2017. MEPs have asked to be able to look at the applications and the two dossiers submitted. Do you know that Members have never even had the right to look, if necessary behind closed doors, who are the candidates for the replacement of the F-16, at any time in all these years, even today? So do not claim that this is a great gesture from the government to leave Parliament in its value. No, this is for the gallery. We're here together for the gallery. I look forward to what will be said. I am always looking forward to what Members of the government present to Parliament, but do not come here to say that this is the parliamentary control that we have always asked for. We will see a tunnel vision here. Three out of five candidates have dropped out. Scenarios to keep the F-16s in the air longer have been wiped off the table. Now we will be countries with a purchase in the United States, while we should just be advocating the development of a European defence. Despite all the fine words of the Michael administration in that regard, we will end up with an American purchase that does not benefit Europe. Let us stop the procedure and think better about what we are doing with people's taxpayers' money. That can also go to the DOD for clarity, but not in that way. The procedure has become completely unreliable. Karolien Grosemans, President: Some speakers asked for the second time. Then we go to the minister, who will present the team of experts.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u15	Madam President, I will be brief. My words have been interpreted. I didn't say I didn't want to hear the technicians. I think I thanked them for being here. I simply think, like many of my colleagues, that this is a political decision that we are talking about here and that, therefore, we are asking for the Prime Minister to be present on this committee. I understand that technicians will answer technical questions, but they would have neither the ability nor the opportunity to answer other political questions which are certainly much more essential to the debate than the technical information on aircraft.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u16	Madam President, I would like briefly to point out that there will therefore be no report today, since no rapporteur has been appointed. There is no document on our table. Jean-Marc Delizée, Chair: There will be a full report made by the services and available quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u17	It is at least one thing but there is no document on the tables, no agenda, no Prime Minister present for the most important issue of the legislature with – I hear what Mr Buysrogge says – a Military Purchases and Sales Commission that gave an opinion on the procedure 18 months ago! There is a promise from the Prime Minister that is not met today and a decision and a highly political issue. We will be made to believe today that through the simple analysis of technical elements concerning only the offers under the ACCaP, we will be able to obtain the insights of Parliament. I think this is a sham of democratic debate. It's a sham of transparency. I deeply regret that we are here today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u18	Madam President, if I have a regret to make, it is that of hearing from my colleagues who, before even hearing what is going to be said, condemn it by saying that it is not interesting, that it is a simulacre, etc. I think that for a matter as important as this one, not being myself a fighter pilot - but I do not know the qualities of all my colleagues - being not at the head of an airfield or a fleet, it is of great interest to me, as a parliamentarian to judge in soul and awareness of this matter, to hear the specialists who have managed it for months or even years. There was a procedure that was stopped. If there had not been such a procedure, do you imagine in what state we would be in today? Perhaps we would face the same situations we have experienced in the past in some cases. A procedure has been agreed upon. I think it was the best thing to do. Today, technical elements will be brought to our attention, including, Mr Maingain, on the question you have put on the French proposal. We have always asked for a legal analysis to tell us to what extent this proposal can be taken into account. Today, I'm waiting for people to tell me what's going on. That goes without saying! As far as deadlines are concerned, I also have a good memory. At one point, the Prime Minister was forced to suspend the procedure for several weeks because of the events that I recalled earlier, namely this story of fake mail. Today, we are on an agenda that may not be limited to October 29. We'll see because no decision has yet been made. Madam President, I ask that we really start the work, so that we can ask all the questions to the people who will be hearing this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u19	Madam President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement. Mr Miller, I would remind you that it is thanks to the opposition work of the sp.a that this dossier was finally debated at the beginning of this year. I asked the Secretary of Defense three times before 2018 if it was possible that the F-16s could fly longer. The Minister has always laughed at this. Our action has at least resulted in clarity, at least as a result of the Prime Minister's promise that the option of extending the lifetime of the F-16s would be evaluated. I look forward with interest to the report we are about to receive on this subject. Mr Buysrogge, please stop saying that this procedure has gone objectively. In this Request for Government Proposal, up to at least twice has been registered in a tricky way that the device to choose must have stealth capacity. There is only one aircraft with full stealth capacity, especially the F-35. Karolien Grosemans, President: Mr Van der Maelen, I would remind you of the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u20	Mr Buysrogge, you are talking about an objective procedure, while in December 2017, the Deputy Head of Cabinet of the Minister of Defence left the cabinet to work for Lockheed Martin. And then you come here to say that this procedure has gone objectively. We don't believe that. And you bet your ass you don't believe that out here either. Karolien Grosemans, President: Mr Van der Maelen, you have made your point. I give the floor to the Minister, who will present the team of experts on defence, economics and legal matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have come together to clarify different aspects of three different dossiers: the procedure for replacing the F-16, the replacement of land vehicles and, finally, the purchase of MALE drone capacity. You know that it is important for the government that we give our defence industry and our economic fabric sufficient opportunities in the event of enlargement. The specialists of the FPS Economy will discuss this. As I have always said, I want to give Parliament maximum transparency in these procedures, but we must not forget that we are in an ongoing award procedure. There is a general principle that information on an ongoing public contract cannot be provided until the award decision has been served on the winner. The losers must then be given the exact reasons why their bid was not kept. You should not believe my words on this, but we have asked for external advice in this context. Here's what I'm quoting. "The government should absolutely avoid such disclosure of the full analysis report, at least for the following reasons: the obligation of the government to guarantee and protect the confidential aspects of offers, in particular the military aspects covered by the defence secret and the industrial aspects covered by business secrecy." No decision has been taken today and we therefore have no explanation to give today about any winners. Moreover, we all have to be careful, because you understand that we cannot simply disclose business secrets or commercial data. Doing so is a crime in Belgium and would make us responsible as such. It should not be forgotten that prior confidentiality agreements have been signed here and there, the so-called non-disclosure agreements. My administration and myself will respect those agreements. The combination of openness and confidentiality is a difficult balancing exercise. So we are doing our best to give you all the information we can give you today, but we will always respect the legislation. Mr Verkin of Chancery will give you more information in a moment on how we will proceed. I've been talking about the team that's doing the replacement of the F-16s. In addition, the FPS Economy will also give a word explanation. In addition, two lawyers will explain the legal opinions on which we have based ourselves in order to determine our attitude to the French proposal. We have also invited the Finance Inspector who has examined all the dossiers on the substance. In addition to the replacement of air-hunting capacity, the replacement of motorized capacity and the purchase of a mine-hunting capacity will be presented. After a few words from General Debaene, the three "project" officers will present their plans. Then, the SPF Economy will speak, followed by the Financial Inspector, to finish with the lawyers. But first I give the floor to Mr Verkin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I was asked to remind you of the most important principles which generally apply in the field of confidentiality in the field of public procurement, particularly in the field of public procurement in the classical and special sectors. I would like to point out that I will not, therefore, specifically elaborate on any exceptions or specific provisions that may apply to defence and security missions. It is a matter of remembering the general rules on confidentiality. Those general rules are mainly contained in Article 13 of the Law of 17 June 2016 on public procurement and in Article 10 of the Law of 17 June 2013 on the grounds, information and remedies for public procurement. The latter law is generally referred to as the professional law. The principles of confidentiality can be summarised as follows: First of all, it is important to distinguish between, on the one hand, the confidentiality to be shown during the award procedure and before the selection or award procedure is started and, on the other hand, the confidentiality after these decisions have been taken. I shall first deal with the confidentiality to be shown in the course of the award procedure and before the award or selection decision is taken. As long as the tenderer has not taken a decision on the selection of candidates or participants, on the regularity of tenders, on the award of the contract or, where appropriate, on the decision not to award the contract, candidates, participants, tenderers and third parties shall not have access to the documents relating to the award procedure. In other words, they do not have access to requests for participation or qualification, tenders and other internal documents of the tenderer. A derogation may be granted only on condition that the written agreement of the candidate or tenderer participating in the negotiations is insofar as negotiations are possible and foreseen and only on the specific information communicated by the candidate or tenderer. Such authorisation by the candidate or tenderer shall not, moreover, have general effect and shall refer to its intended specific publication. Otherwise, access to the documents relating to the award procedure may not be granted to the participating undertakings or third parties, i.e. no information on the evaluation of the tenders, the assessment of the grounds for exclusion or the fulfilment of the selection criteria, as long as the decision in question, e.g. an award decision, has not been taken. The exceptions to this are very limited in the law of 17 June 2016 on public procurement. It is only after the decision that a certain degree of access can be granted, although there too, we shall discuss this under point 2 of the motion for a resolution, a number of restrictions must be mentioned. The protection referred to here during the award procedure to the relevant decisions was thus taken by the contracting authority not only concerns the company's specific confidential business information but covers all documents relating to the award, except, of course, the contract documents, which are intended to enable competition. This provision aims at ensuring equal treatment for all candidates and tenderers. Until the award decision is taken, the confidentiality of tenders should be preserved in order to avoid irregularities which could lead to a breach of the principle of equal treatment of tenderers. The history of this rule, which therefore consists in not granting access to the relevant documents for the decision, is now provided for in Article 13 of the Public Procurement Act of 17 June 2016. It is actually an acquisition of Article 10, paragraph 2, second paragraph of the Professional Act of 17 June 2013. Before that, there was also an identical provision in Article 65/10 of the Law of 24 December 1993, which was inserted by the Law of 23 December 2009. A similar provision already existed in the Law of 15 June 2006. In other words, the provision has a rather long tradition. A second point I would like to raise is the special protection regime that applies after the selection was completed or the award decision was taken. Without prejudice to the specific obligations relating to the publication of the awarded public contract and the mandatory provision of information to candidates, participants and tenderers, the tenderer shall not disclose, once the decision has been taken, the information provided to him as confidential by an economic operator, including in the course of the procedure and the execution of the contract. This applies in particular to any trade or trade secrets and the confidential aspects of the tender. The same prohibition shall apply to any person who would have knowledge of such confidential information in the course of his duties or the assignments entrusted to him. As regards the provision of information to candidates, participants and tenderers, Article 10 of the Professional Law provides as follows: Information should not be disclosed if its disclosure would impede the application of a law, would be contrary to the public interest, would prejudice the legitimate commercial interests of public or private operators or could harm fair competition between them. That is the key to taking into account the aspects of confidentiality at the later stage. The protection of confidential business information, as an exception to the principle of public access for contracting authorities subject to public access legislation, is strengthened in the manner I have just explained in the public procurement regulation. Thirdly, I would also like to say that the contractor can make demands on an entrepreneur to protect the confidential nature of the information he makes available. These are the so-called confidentiality clauses. Finally, in the course of the negotiations, where such negotiations are possible and foreseen, the contracting authority should ensure equal treatment of all tenderers. Therefore, it should not transmit information in a discriminatory manner, thereby favouring certain tenderers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u23	Mr Minister, honourable Members of both committees, the intention is to clarify today the procedures we have used and the procedures we have used in this public contract. As the Minister has already mentioned, we will do so for the three projects or programmes, with the people who led the projects. First, Colonel Eric Claessen will speak for the project of replacing the combat vehicles. Then we'll have Air Colonel Luc Cruysberghs, the program officer for the MALE (Medium-Altitude Long-Endurance) program, the drone. Afterwards, Colonel Harry Van Pee will deal with the ACAP (Air Combat Capacity Program) project for the replacement of the F-16. Together with the lawyers of the team of the law firm Stibbe, Lieutenant Colonel Heuninckx will also provide an explanation of the evaluation that has been carried out within the staff, with legal advice. Much has already been said about the confidentiality of data. Despite the fact that we have applied and monitored these three projects in the procedure, we have insisted on applying the legislation to public procurement, in the sense that the legislation gives us a clear playing field and a very clear framework to which we must stick. We have not taken the exception we could have taken. We have said that we will go from state to state. That's done and clear. It's a "capacitive" approach. However, we want to do this according to the rules of art, according to the legislation on public procurement. This also ensures that the confidentiality and equality of competition, as described above, must be guaranteed. The non-disclosure agreement section has already been discussed. We need this in order to obtain confidential and even military secret information from the firms so that we can properly and properly look at the offers and compare them if necessary. This, of course, involves a commitment, both to the firms and to the state for which or with which we have signed that non-disclosure agreement, so as not to be able to say everything in a public meeting. Hence the restrictions imposed on what we can bring. In any case, it is intended to give you as transparent a view as possible on the whole procedure we have followed in the three programmes. I propose that we stick to this and give the floor to Colonel Eric Claessen, project manager for the project CAMO (Capacité Motorisée). For ease of translation, I suggest that speakers speak only in their own language so that there is no need to switch interpreters. We will do an alternate presentation in Dutch and French.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u24	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will explain to you the Motorised Capacity/Capacité Motorisée (CAMO) programme. I'll do that on the basis of a presentation. I can start by saying that the CAMO programme represents a double innovation. On the one hand, this programme will create a European partnership and partnership with France, which in Europe does not know its predecessors. In doing so, we will contribute to the achievement of a more European defence, bottom-up. On the other hand, more in the operational and technical field, this programme will ensure that we take a very big step forward in the networked deployment of the land forces. That is what is called in France la capacité de combat collaboratif, info valorisée. Technically, the innovation is not so much in vehicle technical characteristics as in sensors, information exchange and command systems. Here you can see the short content. I will look at the capacitive approach that underpins this programme. I will briefly remind you of the background and explain the justification for the need. Then I will continue with the substantive and procedural aspects, to end with the programme structure and timing of the programme. What happens after 2019 once we have made the decision, how will the programme proceed? We would like to stress here that this CAMO programme (Capacité Motorisée) goes far beyond the purchase of combat vehicles. It is really a partnership in all domains, in all lines of development, in all development lines of a capacity. Apart from the purchase of the equipment, this also concerns the acquisition of the concepts contained in the French doctrine. We will move towards a similar organization, we will apply similar training concepts, and we will also take on board the concepts of our French partners in terms of leadership, staff and infrastructure. This will ensure that we are fully interoperable with the strategic partner country, with France. This will anchor the Belgian motorised capacity at European level and thus the construction of a more European defence. On the slide you will see the backgrounds. I would particularly like to draw your attention to the start of the programme. We started to look after the publication of the Strategic Vision, and then to ask the Council of Ministers for its prior agreement. That agreement was obtained on 22 June 2017. A week later, the Belgian Minister for Defence and the French ministre des Armées signed a declaration of intent which paved the way for negotiations to give concrete form to this programme. The award method is international participation, as provided for in the legislation, both at Belgian and European level. This is about l'exception, the exception, as stated in the article. Let me briefly remind you of the justification for the need. At the request stage prior agreement, i.e. on the basis of the information obtained during the prospection, the need was identified as 417 vehicles of the light version "Griffon"; and 60 vehicles of the median version "Jaguar." During the negotiations, however, it emerged that we had to take a number of measures to ensure full coherence with the doctrine and organisation of the French Scorpion programme. We have come to the conclusion that it is possible to achieve the same with fewer vehicles of the light version, the Griffon, and that is why that number was reduced from 417 to 382. The negotiations also showed that, in order to achieve total interoperability, we had to include a number of programmes provided for in the Strategic Vision under separate lines in the CAMO programme, in such a way that we could align them with the French Scorpion programme. Let me now briefly explain the material aspects. You can see here a schematic representation of the Griffon vehicle. That is a 6x6 vehicle, powered on 3 axles and with 6 wheels. It belongs to the weight class of 25 tonnes and is mainly used as a version for transporting troops. This means that 10 soldiers can be transported and deployed in a full combat equipment. The vehicles also offer a much higher level of protection than is currently the case for the vehicles we currently employ. In fact, however, the main innovation, as I said, is what is called the vetronics or vetronics, by analogy with what is called avionics in the aviation world. So there really is an electronic structure that ensures that all the sensors of the vehicle itself, but also the sensors of all the other vehicles of the formation are connected together. An information management system translates this into a common view of the operational situation. This will ensure that command can be done much faster and with much less errors and delays. It is this vetronica structure that really is at the heart of the Scorpion programme and thus also of the Belgian CAMO programme. The second picture shows the Jaguar vehicle schematically. That is also a 6x6 vehicle of the weight class of 25 tonnes. Its crew consists of three people, but the Jaguar is much heavier armed. I will explain this in a moment, but here too, the heart of the system lies in the vetronica structure, as I have just explained. I will go into more detail, without too much technical details. Here you see the vehicle Griffon and top left you see the sensor Antares, which ensures automatic and 360 degrees around the vehicle threats of all kinds are detected. That could be soldiers moving, vehicles approaching, a laser directed at the vehicle or other acoustic signals. This is transmitted to a computer, which converts this data into an operational image. That operational image is not only available to the vehicle commander, but is automatically transmitted by radio to all vehicles of the formation and to the combat unit command post. This is all done automatically and in real time. Then I come to the issue of weapons of the Jaguar vehicle. That's more heavily armed. The Griffon is equipped with an overhead weapon station, so an automatic machine gun with a caliber of 12.7 millimeters. Here, on the other hand, we are talking about a cannon of 40 millimeters. It is according to a modern concept called Cased Telescoped Armament System, which is used by both the French and the British. The innovation lies in the fact that the ammunition is much more compact than conventional ammunition. Classic ammunition consists of a shell in which the propulsive charge, let's say the powder, is contained and then the projectile is placed on top of it. In this new concept is both the projectile and the powder contained in the ammunition. That's your bottom right on the slide. That makes the ammunition very easy to manipulate. I'll make a brief comparison with classic ammunition here on the slide. You can see from left to right classic ammunition of 25, 30, 35 and 40 millimeters. And you will notice that a classic 40-millimeter ammo is twice the size of the Cased Telescoped Armament System. I can also say that there are three main types of ammunition. All the way to the left you will see armoured piercing, which is armor piercing ammunition. This is effective against all armored vehicles that can be encountered on the battlefield, with the exception of heavy tanks. In the middle you will see the general purpose round, so ammunition for general use. It is effective against personnel, unprotected vehicles and infantry hiding, for example in bunkers. Extremely right you will see target practice, which is exercise ammunition, which ensures that the exercises with this cannon can happen in safe conditions and with recpect for the environmental limitations of shooting modes. I just said the cannon isn't effective against heavy combat tanks. This is why the Jaguar tower is equipped with an additional weapon system, that is the Missile Moyenne Portée (MMP), with a width of 4 000 meters. This is effective against both heavy tanks and very strong fortifications. It is true that the charge of this massile is effective against an armor of 1 meter steel and against a structure in concrete of 2 meters. So it is actually effective against all kinds of goals that can be encountered on the modern battlefield. The pregnancy also allows one to attack the enemy target without the enemy or the opponent being able to rip it off. This massile is fired from a launch post at the top right of the tower. After this technical explanation, I shall continue with the procedure. As has just been said, following the signing of the declaration of intent by both ministers, discussions were held with, on the one hand, the Directorate générale de l'armement (the Directorate générale de l'armement), which is the body mainly concerned with the contractual aspects, and, on the other hand, the French État major de l'Armée de terre, on operational cooperation. The aim is not only to buy but to achieve a sustainable partnership at operational level and in terms of cooperation in the management of the programme and the contractual aspects. Two documents emerged from that. Firstly, the accord intergovernmental cadre, which provides for the agreement on capacity-building cooperation. That is also the basis for the French contractual action because France will act on behalf of Belgium, so au nom et pour le compte de la Belgique. Secondly, the document protocole de fourniture. That's a confidential document. It sets out all the technical details of what is being delivered. That's the périmètre initial. Other than that, there's what it all costs. That is the basis for the accounting and legal commitment planned for 2018. Furthermore, it includes a hatch receipt the commande. This is an open agreement for subsequent logistical support. You are now schematically suggesting this. You can see on the left the accord intergovernmental and on the right the protocol de fourniture.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u25	Madam Chair, Mr. Chairman, I am looking for the relationship with the replacement of the F-16s. Can you enlighten me? I feel like we're drowning the fish. Karolien Grosemans, President: Mr Van Hees, three important purchasing programmes are being discussed. One of them is this program. You're gonna have to wait a little longer, and then you're gonna be able to ask any questions you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u26	All of this was already heard in the Military Purchases Commission on May 31, 2017, word for word! I would like to move a little forward to get to the heart of the debate. All of this was explained to us precisely on May 31, 2017 in the Military Purchases Commission. It says a lot about the way we're being occupied.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u27	Madam President, as has been said, there are two types of document: the intergovernmental and protocole de fourniture and the AEG, on the left, which consists of three parts: one that defines the management of the programme, the modales de soutien or the way in which France will support us, and the annex the developpement capacity that ensures that we can demonstrate to the European Commission that this programme is indeed a strategic partnership, bottom-up, in order to achieve more European defence. That is why we can rely on the exception provided for in the Treaty of the European Union. On the right you can see the protocol of the fourniture which contains both the calendar, the financial modalities and the administrative clauses. A programme structure is also provided. I do not go into much detail, but the bottom line is that the program will be run binationally at three levels. This is indeed a balanced partnership and not a relationship of big brother/little brother. It is therefore indeed a structure that manages the programme between the two partners, Belgium and France. I'm gonna end up remembering the timing. As said, we started in 2016, after publication of the Strategic Vision. Following the obtaining of the prior agreement in June 2017 we have entered into negotiations. This has led to the drafting of an award dossier which is currently in the process of obtaining the government's approval. After that approval, it is intended to supply the vehicles in the time period 2025-2030. However, it is the period 2019-2025 that we will use to shape and shape the plan of the développement capacity, that is to say the real cooperation between the French and Belgian land forces. This concludes this explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u28	The second programme we would like to introduce is the MALE programme, Medium-Altitude Long-Endurance, the drone to replace the B-Hunter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u29	As the general said, I am Colonel Luc Cruysberghs. I am the Phase 1 Project Leader for the acquisition of MALE capability. In my briefing, I will first explain what is meant by UAS, what is called the Unmanned Aircraft System. Then I will explain to you what the MALE (Medium-Altitude Long-Endurance) is in this family of AUS. Finally, I will talk to you about the analysis we have done in Phase 1 and the important points of this analysis. I just start with a few reminders of the strategic vision. Some of the principles are set out here. The emphasis in these various principles we use is mainly on the acquisition of strategic, strategic support capability for our own combat troops, but also in the context of international coalition operations, of course in the light of the capacity gaps in Europe and NATO. You are certainly aware that there is a capacity gap at the MALE level, both in European forces and in NATO forces. Our research is capacity research with cooperation with European partners. This is being done in all areas, be it training, operations, logistical support, etc., so as to have a much more efficient system. I start here by explaining to you what a UAS, unmanned aircraft system is. According to a NATO classification, a whole range of systems exist in the market, which is even found in toy shops. At the military level, the application is obviously much more specific. There are Class 1 systems that range from a few grams to Class 3 systems that can range up to several tons. They're pretty important systems. From this classification, it should be noted that in Class 1 it is mainly systems that give a tactical situation on the ground to the operational commander, in real time. Basically, this can be compared to somewhat elaborate binoculars that allow the command to see further than on the other side of the hill. It's a bit like that to see. As soon as one arrives in class 2 (Tactical means) or class 3 (Strategic means), one speaks of systems that are there to collect information that will be used later, processed by specialists to be able to serve afterwards in operations planned by the forces involved. In this area, we introduced Raven in 2017, which is in the category 1 of mini-AUS. Since 2002, we have had well-known B-Hunters, who carry out many missions also over Belgium, which are in the tactical category, class 2, and which we hope to replace by 2021. Here, on a timeline, is what the Strategic Vision contains. The first line concerns mini-AUS. Raven capacity is already in place, with a subsequent replacement currently planned for the years 2023-2024. Our current B-Hunter capability will be operational until the end of 2021. It will be replaced by a capability at the tactical level, slow component, I will say so. These are the STUAS, Small Tactical Unmanned Aircraft System, implemented a priori by the ISTAR Battalion. There is also a series of UAVs at the marine level, now called Maritime Tactical UAV, both at the frigate level and at the mine hunter level. The capacity we have here is MALE (Medium-Altitude Long-Endurance). The Strategic Vision includes two phases. A current first phase, on which the government is called upon to decide, for the acquisition of two systems, followed by a second phase, later in 2029-2030, by four additional systems. Finally, the last capability at the Strategic Vision level is HALE (High-Altitude Long-Endurance) capability. NATO-level capability, known as NATO AGS, Alliance Ground Surveillance, is discussed. Belgium will participate from 2019, with staff from the Sigonella base in Italy. What is a MALE? There is a lot of discussion in this area. What is it? What's the point? A MALE system is composed of at least two devices, to have redundancy. Next to these two devices, of course, there's a cockpit. The cockpit isn't on the plane, but it's on the ground. It's Ground Control Station. There are not only the pilot, but also the person who manipulates the sensors and also, in our concept at the Belgian level, a tactical controller, who is the leader of the team and who checks that the orders that have been given are respected. Next to this, the two large data terminals allow communication with aircraft in flight. Of course, they are remotely controlled aircraft which, when they are close to the ground station, at a maximum of 200 km, are remotely controlled from these different antennas. Why are there two of them? It's just for the sake of redundancy. The two antennas can either teleguide an aircraft, or one is set up in stand by to resume the remote control of the aircraft that is in flight, in case. Next to this, this type of aircraft can operate at distances far greater than 200 km. At that time, a satellite communication system was needed. We're talking in thousands of miles. The system is also connected through a satellite antenna to a satellite system that allows remote guidance of the device. On the sensor side, those of an apparatus like this are classic sensors proposed by different firms and countries and which are mainly electro-optical infrared and laser, also with radars to be able to form an image of the ground and search for vehicles in motion. A whole series of sensors (p-load) can also be installed on the device depending on the tasks you want to perform. As I said for the MALE Phase 1 of which I am the project leader, the purpose of this acquisition is to have two systems now. The amount entered at budgetary programming level is EUR 180 million, a constant term 2015. The idea is to have a delivery to replace the B-Hunter in 2021-2022, with an initial deployment capacity in 2023 and a final deployment capacity in 2025. This means that all systems should be delivered by 2025. In our analysis, we certainly adopted a capacitive approach in this type of technology or device with very high technological content. It's obvious that we can't play horsemen alone. We must be part of a partnership, in cooperation with other nations. We therefore see this acquisition also in this type of intergovernmental partnership. That is why we have asked to be able to make a government-to-government agreement to acquire that capacity. A very important parameter of analysis is certainly interoperability. The purpose of this system is not to operate rounds in the sky for pleasure, it is to exchange this information. At the level of interoperability, there is talk of interoperability across the four pillars: - the first pillar is all that is training, one must be able to train together with the same infrastructures; - the second pillar is very important and I would even say the most important one is the operations, to be able to operate together; - the third pillar is the system and logistical support part, it is really the efficiency of logistical support that is important; - the fourth pillar which is certainly not to be overlooked in the type of operation which is carried out with this type of device, it is the security part of the information, thus classification, exchange of information between the apparatus, the ground system and the various partners, whether it is the operating centre or the other partners. It is also important to integrate the system into an R system. Here on the right above the image is the Link 16, which is a well-known network for the exchange of information between devices. It is also important to be able to exchange information with ground troops, including what is known as forward air control, which leads potential actions and which also allows the aircraft to have information available on board a ground terminal, for the benefit of ground troops, in a paired manner. As I was telling you, the previous slide showed above all cooperation or at least interoperability in terms of security and operations. We must not forget what is called interoperability in terms of cooperation, efficiency and effectiveness. We also analysed the various fields, taken as "training", "material" of course, but also "procedures and operations". This is very important in this cooperation, in order to increase efficiency, reduce budgets and also reduce the "personal" envelope needed to manage this type of system. A last transparent one shows you that our concern is to have a European anchor. Who is currently using which system? In green, you see the systems that are used by Americans in the United States, by England, Italy, France, Spain and Holland. These countries use this system or have already signed contracts to acquire the devices called MQ 9A or 9B Reaper Sky Guardians. In orange, we see Germany, which recently signed a leasing contract with Airbus Deutschland for Israeli aircraft, Heron TP. I am just saying here that these aircraft will not fly in Europe. They will be based in Israel and will fly in operations; training will take place in Israel only. The third is a smaller device, the Hermes 900. It will be used by Switzerland only. The Swiss actually ordered six of these aircraft. I want to be complete and explain this slide. Articles appeared in the press concerning delivery times. Germany has a leasing contract comprising two years of equipment and crew training. They will start operating with the new Heron TP system from 2020 until 2027. The English are in a process of certification of the American system. They will receive the first aircraft in 2021 – one or two – in order to complete the flight certification phase at European airspace level. In order for deliveries to take place afterwards, they want to have an initial capacity of eight aircraft from 2023, a little like us, and to be fully operational with the full fleet from 2025, exactly like us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u30	I propose to move on to the program ACAP, presented by Colonol-flyer Harold Van Pee, program manager of the replacement program for the F-16. He's been here a few times in the past, and I suspect you know him all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I have often had the pleasure of coming to the House to explain the ACAP dossier. I have always done so with great pleasure, even during the so-called F-16-gate in April. Today is a little less, I must admit. I realize you want to hear me say who won the competition and why. As explained in detail, I will not go into that. I will necessarily confine myself to the more procedural aspects, pending an award decision. There have been many parliamentary activities. There have been no less than nine hearings on this dossier. Either the Defense Staff came to explain, or the candidates themselves. The hearings with the candidates themselves were interesting as they could address the types of shipments requested by the RfGP. In addition, as you know, Parliament has already voted two laws in this respect. On the one hand, that is the law on the programming of military expenditure On the other hand, at the end of last year you adopted the law on the General Expenditure Budget 2018. As you know, it provides for the commitment of EUR 4 658 000 of current euros for this programme. In addition, more than 150 parliamentary questions have been asked and this counter is still running. These are just questions to the Minister of Defence, written and oral. Those questions were answered in several Defence Committees. Whether that is enough is a political consideration that I cannot let go of. At least there have been a lot of opportunities to talk about this dossier. On the government's side and the administration's side, everything starts with the October 2014 government agreement when the replacement of the F-16 was discussed. This becomes more concrete with a decision of the heart of 15 December, where for the first time 34 aircraft are discussed. As you know, in March 2017, the Council of Ministers allowed us to start the formal purchasing process, in the form of a government-to-government market, from state to state. The Council of Ministers has also approved a number of award criteria that you know, they are also in the RfGP. I'll run them over briefly. In descending order of importance are the total cost of ownership, employability, partenariat and military cooperation, the protection of essential security interests, growth and evolution potential, ease of use and unfoldability and, finally, operational and technical support. With the approval of that application, with prior agreement, in March 2017 and the sending out of that RfGP started what we call the programme phase. We also put that RfGP online a few days later, which is a unique thing as far as we know. That RfGP is still integrally online on the Minister's website. This programme phase is divided into three sub-phases. First, there was a preparatory phase, which ran from March 2017 until the receipt of the initial offers in September 2017. Second, there was the validation phase, which ran from the receipt of the initial offers to the receipt of the so-called best and final offers, the final offers, in February 2018. Finally, there was an evaluation phase, which ran from February 2018 to May 2018. I shall now go into more detail. First, there is the preparatory phase from March 2017 to September 2017. This phase has been fully in line with the modalities and planning of the RfGP. The RfGP contains a very detailed schedule, day by day. We have been able to follow them fully. In April 2017, we organised a conference with the then five candidates. In the end, only four showed up. We have allowed the candidates to visit our installations, our airports and technical installations, here in Belgium. We organised several bilateral meetings so that they were able to submit their initial tender in September. You know that, unfortunately, we have not received an offer from three candidates, either from the United States Navy for the F-18 Superhornet or from the Swedish FMV for the Gripen E or from the French DGA for the Rafale. I said it in April, I can only repeat it. It is absolutely not unusual for only two out of five candidates to be left in such a competition. We see that happening all over the world. Everyone abroad usually writes about the same five candidates. It is very rare that more than two candidates end up submitting a tender. That is no more than normal, because participating in such a process costs money and if one is not certain at some point that one is going to win that competition, one may decide rather not to participate than to lose. In itself, that is completely normal. It is also important to note that at no time have we had the slightest criticism of one of the candidates of the neutrality of the process or of the RfGP in the event of enlargement. The validation period ran from September 2017 to February 2018. This phase has also been fully in line with the modalities and planning of the RfGP. Here it was our turn to visit them. We did this, too. In addition, many additional bilateral meetings were organised so that they could submit a best and final offer in February as best they could. Finally, in February of this year we received two offers, both from the American JPO (Joint Program Office) for the F-35, and from the English Ministry of Defence for the Eurofighter Typhoon. These are two very high-quality offers. This can be said. These were two very good documents, each of which was approximately 3 000 pages each, both drawn up in accordance with the RfGP modalities. I would like to emphasise that all this time, from the sending out of the RfGP until February 2018, we have not had any contact with the candidates since then, all discussions with the initial five, later four, three and finally two candidates have taken place in a very constructive and serene atmosphere. As has already been mentioned, there is indeed a lot of interest from abroad, especially countries such as Canada, Finland, Switzerland and Croatia. These are countries that currently also have or are thinking of starting up a competition. They are very interested in our working method, in particular the evaluation method, and have asked to be able to copy large parts of the RfGP for their own competition. I shall then come to the evaluation phase. It sounds a bit corny, but I would just like to stress that even this phase has been completed in accordance with the modalities and planning of the RfGP, as well as with the modalities of the evaluation manual. This evaluation manual is a separate one that is not part of the RfGP. We drew this up afterwards. It is a book of about 60 pages containing the tasks, responsibilities, the deontological rules and, above all, the evaluation process. How do we proceed with the evaluation? How are we going to motivate the results? The evaluation questions were also prepared and their respective weight determined. How will all this information be handled? It is good to know that two copies of that evaluation manual were sealed in front of the Finance Inspector before we received the initial tenders. Both envelopes were subsequently reopened in the presence of the same Finance Inspector at the time when, after the evaluation, we transferred the complete award file to him. In this way we can guarantee that the rules were not changed along the way. We have laid down the rules before we received the tenders and they were followed as such, in full. The actual evaluation didn't happen by myself or my team. You probably already know this. This was also asked a few times in parliamentary questions. This was done by the so-called review teams, the evaluation teams, one per sub-criterion. A total of 33 evaluators, 30 from Defence designated by the Chief of Defense, and 3 from the FPS Economy, designated by Mr Delporte. All this time we have strictly followed the rules of deontology and we have also applied the principle of need to know very strictly. Each review team and each evaluator only got to see that part that was needed to do the evaluation. In concrete terms, this means that someone who, for example, had to decide on operational employability did not have access to the cost data and vice versa. That whole evaluation was done in a secure room. Finally, this resulted in an evaluation report of 640 pages that I signed off on 4 May 2018. I should like to comment briefly on the evaluation questions because they are actually the basis of the whole evaluation report. As I said earlier, evaluation questions were defined for each sub-criteria. They were transferred to the candidates at an appropriate time. They received those questions before the initial tenders were submitted. For each of these questions, a so-called evaluation question assessment report was prepared by those 33 evaluators. This consists of three parts, namely a description of the question and the different indicators they were going to evaluate, then a similar analysis of the candidates and a reasoned conclusion. I didn't know this morning if the Treasury Inspector would be here, and so I prepared a slide. He'll probably explain that in more detail in a moment. Once the evaluation report was completed, we also produced an award dossier. This will be transferred to the Finance Inspector, a neutral body, as required by the regulations. He's going to investigate that very thoroughly. He did the same for this big file. In total, he spent about ten days with us, from early in the morning to late in the evening. He has asked several questions, both written and oral. He also interviewed members of the review teams. He concluded with regard to the evaluation process that it was in itself very reliable. The modalities were laid down in advance and respected. Those different evaluation question assessment reports, all 53, were more than sufficiently motivated, he said. He also found that all those evaluators were able to work in complete independence. He therefore concluded that, despite the complexity and size of the dossier, each element was adequately documented and justified. The evaluation is therefore sound and well-argued. This led to an opinion at the end of May 2018 in which the inspector stated that he had no objection to this dossier. However, he will be speaking in a moment and will probably be able to explain and confirm this in detail. The big difference with my colleagues is that they already know what they will buy. Unlike them, unfortunately, I can't show you pictures of what we think we're buying. So I have to keep it pretty generic. To deal with the question of what we are finally buying, I would like to go back to a table that we have already briefed Parliament about in 2016. Of these there is a parliamentary report. In order to explain what we buy on the basis of cost levels, the cost levels must of course be well defined. That is not new; it is already in the 2016 report. On the basis of these different cost levels, I will try to demonstrate what we will eventually buy. First of all, it's the fly away cost. This includes all development costs, both historical development costs and future development costs, in our case up to 2030. It is mainly about the production costs of 34 aircraft with everything that goes with them, of course including the engines. On the slide you will see an overview. The fly away cost actually includes literally everything that ever goes into the air, except the armament, which comes into a possible later phase. The fly away cost really includes everything that flies, both in terms of development and production. For the sake of clarity, I would like to inform you that all these matters are covered by this programme. In a next phase, the weapon system cost, there are certain things, such as two mission training centers, namely one for Kleine-Brogel and one for Florennes. For each base we provide four simulators with everything that goes with them. That is a serious change against the current situation, because today we have a 2 x 1 simulator. We proceed to 2 x 4 because we will use simulation for the new aircraft much more than we do today. In future, we must be able to generate approximately 4 500 hours a year with these simulators. In addition, all possible tooling and test equipment support are included, or in other words the tool to support the aircraft. Operational support is also included, so all the services and workstations needed for what we call mission planning and mission debriefing. I also mention the deployment support kits, which, of course, as the RfGP required, are compatible with our A400Ms and with our future Airbus 33 Multi Role Tanker Transport, dimensioned to allow 30 days of operations without resupply, as we say. In addition, there is the full ICT support structure. Not unimportant, there is also an initial stock of weapons, which is no less. It concerns a hundred missiles of short pregnancy, a hundred missiles of long gestation, a thousand precision-guided munitions and all the necessary ammunition for the cannon. In addition, there are also so-called towed decoys of leurres tractors and chaff and flares, the things that guarantee a pilot greater survival. The next layer is the program cost. Again, that's all in the program. It concerns all the management activities that the partner government will do for us. It's about things like weapons system management, you see here what that means: system engineering, program management, the entire contractual and financial management of the program, but also the whole airworthiness thing, which is very important. Part of that is done by the partner government. We are, of course, paying indirectly for this. It also contains the cost of the so-called mission data files, the operational data needed to be able to use the aircraft properly. Furthermore, there are all kinds of government services. Examples include the provision of operational and technical manuals, but also the conversion of personnel, both pilots and technicians and operational support staff. There is also administrative support for our Belgian cell in the host country. That's all covered by the notion of program cost. That notion is important in that it covers all one-off costs. It could be called the additional costs, the costs resulting from the choice to replace the F-16 with a new aircraft. What comes next in the next layer, the effective multi-transition cost, are after all the kind of costs that one has today with the F-16. The costs we incur for this will replace the same costs as those of the F-16. So it is not a real extra cost, insofar as the new aircraft has the same operating costs as the old aircraft, but it is, of course, in order of size. I can tell you that already. As you know, because it is stated in the RfGP................................................................................................................................................................ Again, it may be recalled that the F-16 will be in use for more than ten years in Belgium, until the end of 2028. We are therefore going to fly a total of some 28 000 hours during that period. Every flight time costs money, because one has to provide spare parts in due course. In order to get those spare parts, one has to pay some kind of entry fee to use a spare pool. In the future, whatever the choice for the aircraft, we will be much more committed to pooling spare parts with other users. This includes the concept of performance-based logistics or the maintenance of the aircraft, which guarantees a certain minimum serviceability. This is also a visible trend for both candidates: in future, much more maintenance activities will be outsourced to industry. I said that in 2016. Also in 2017, when we briefed the PCLA. You will see a noticeable shift from personnel costs to operating costs because one replaces organic military personnel with service contracts with industry. What else is in this notion? Those are the fuel costs. Fuel is not financially covered by these markets because fuel is purchased under a larger framework contract covering all Defence fuel needs. What else is in this notion? For evaluation purposes, these include staff costs, the costs of people working directly with the aircraft. That's about 900, gross modo. This is evaluated as a criterion, but these personnel costs are not included in the budget for this market, as the staff is always paid by the Defence Department. Then we come to the last layer, the total cost of (...), which is the criterion we used to do the evaluation. That's the same as the last slide, but now from 2031. That's being evaluated. We could consider the whole life cycle for the evaluation, but the cost of what will have to be paid item 2031 is of course not now included in the budget. In the long term, we will fly a little less than 8 000 hours a year in this regime until 2058. What's in there? As mentioned earlier, maintenance, fuel costs and personnel costs, but in this case also future upgrades and modifications. All this will be taken into account. That's the last slide. It is quite generic indeed. You'll say it's nothing new, because it's all in the RfGP. That's mostly true, but just for a second. We go from 54 F-16's 45 single seats and 9 double seats to 34 new planes and from 35 to 67 pilots. In collaboration with the Netherlands, we continue to keep 2 aircraft on quick reaction alert 24/7. Where we can still send 6 aircraft today on a permanent basis and 4 on a temporary basis, it will in future be 6 aircraft on a permanent basis. The flight plan goes from today to 11 000 hours on an annual basis to a small 8 000 hours. On the other hand, the number of hours simulator goes up sensitively, almost x 4, from 1 200 to 4 500. Of course we keep the two bases, but there we go from a total workforce of 2 600 to about 2 100 or 2,200, depending on which candidate is prevented. In the meantime, you have noticed that we too are going for this capacious approach. That's the common thread through the three programs. This is a slide that we already showed in 2015. It is clear that we also need all the other things besides the plane. We need a real long-term partnership to ensure that. I look forward to your questions. Karolien Grosemans, Chairman, General Debaene, you will lead the last speaker into the Defense hatch.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u32	This was the last speaker for the moment as Lieutenant Colonel Heuninckx and the lawyer of the law firm Stibbe will intervene. Karolien Grosemans, Chairman: We are now going to listen to the three people who have evaluated the economic aspects of the programme. I invite Mr Schrooten, The Spirit and Delporte to take a seat here in front. The Minister's requesting a five-minute suspension. I'll go into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u33	Karolien Grosemans, Chairman: We are moving to the part about the economy. Instead of three speakers, there are two speakers. I shall first give the floor to Mr Jean-Marc Delporte, chairman of the Management Committee of the FPS Economy and then to Mr Schrooten of the General Directorate of Economic Analyses and International Economy. Mr Delporte, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2014 government agreement stipulated that important investment files in military equipment allow our country to remain relevant at the international level. Budgetary efforts resulting from these investments can also be a source of significant economic incentives and innovations in sectors related to national security. The Government has therefore shown a willingness to take the industrial and economic dimension into account in the preparation of such dossiers. The document entitled Belgian interests in the field of defence and security policy, approved by the Council of Ministers on 28 October 2016, defines the essential technological applications of support, which was called key enabling technological defence and security applications (KETA), which must be made available to Defence and which, in accordance with the European legal framework, can be taken into account when evaluating the process of acquiring defence equipment, in the event that Defence invokes Article 346.1(b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the context of the ACCaP file and the MCM file, the Council of Ministers has decided that it will indeed be asked to state agencies to formulate proposals for measures that can protect the essential Belgian security interests (IES), which you have found in the whole military market rated for 10%, as mentioned in the document also approved on 28 October 2016. Within the limits of the ACCaP procedure, the review team 7 was responsible for the evaluation of these ESI protection measures. The team consisted of three members of the SPF Economy and two members of the Defence. In accordance with Annex D to the Request for Government Proposal, the sub-criterion on the protection of essential security interests first examined the direct measures, and I stress the "direct" measures proposed by the suppliers, which satisfy the qualification process during which it is verified whether the proposed measures pass the test of compliance with the European legal framework. In a second stage, each measure that passed the qualification filter was assessed on the basis of five evaluation indicators, namely four qualitative indicators (maturity, type of activity, feasibility, period of implementation of proposals) and a quantitative indicator (value added impact on the Belgian economy). With regard to the MCM procedure, the evaluation team is composed of the same members of the SPF Economy and Defence and has just begun the analysis of the initial offers using a procedure quite similar to that of the ACCaP file. For the other two CAMO and MALE files, the Minister of Defence has chosen, for strategic reasons, to enter into sole source negotiations with a single partner. For the new motorized combat platforms, these negotiations were initiated with France. For the MALE RPAS (Medium-Altitude Long-Endurance Remotely Piloted Aircraft System) case, the US firm General Atomics is the sole source partner. I will now give the floor to my Director General, who will give you more details on the methodology. But of course, as a result of what you heard at first, and although I wrote it, not on the outcome of those files. You will obviously not have the results, since the market has yet to be decided. It is about the methodology that my colleague will explain to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u35	Thank you. As Mr Delporte has said, there are actually two dynamics of economic context in the context of the dossiers on the table. The purpose of my speech is to briefly explain the economic specificities of these two different dynamics. On the one hand, we have a dossier ACCaP and the file MCM, which is still in the pipeline, for which a market survey was organised. Belgium shall request the candidate providers, on the basis of the new ESI methodology, to submit certain files or projects. On the other hand, there are sole source files................................................................................................................................................. First of all, I would like to talk about the files in which we left with a market survey, ACCaP. For the economic dynamism behind this dossier, the starting point was that the old system of economic compensation was no longer allowed. As you may know, there has been a new regulatory framework in Europe since 2009, which has been transposed into Belgian legislation. Moreover, since 2010, the European Commission has taken a position seeking to combat more aggressively possible forms of improper use of the national security concept. In addition, there were specific communications exchanges between Belgium and the European Commission in 2013, in which the Commission asked for our methodology on economic aspects of military investment dossiers to be adapted. This leads us to adopt a different approach to the economic issues, which is very important in relation to military matters and which also focuses on avoiding the launch of market-distorting initiatives. The new policy philosophy that was developed, starting from the document that Mr Delporte just quoted, the November 2016 document, in which Belgium defined its national security interests, starts from the security interests and no longer from economic interests. This means that when looking at economic files related to military investments, they must be strictly within the definition of security interests, as established in 2016. Mr Delporte has already mentioned the KETAs, the key enabling technology applications. In general terms, five economic activities are eligible for these ESIs. These are systems and subsystems for defence and security, for command control communication and related ICT activities, for advanced materials, for training and simulators and for the security of information systems. Those activities are also listed in Annex D of the ACCaP RfGP and can also be found in the 2016 government documents. If we start from that security philosophy and no longer from a pure economic compensation philosophy, the ambition that is defined is to give Belgian companies and organisations the opportunity to participate in international value chains, albeit in the context of defence and security activities. In other words, the government's ambition is to open the door for companies to participate in international value chains within the framework of what is legally possible. Ultimately, and that is important, it is up to the companies, when that door is open, to consider the possibilities offered by the OEMs, the original equipment manufacturers, under a number of specified conditions. That is the situation in which we are currently dealing with the questioning files. Let me briefly explain the steps that have been taken in this regard. Of course, the first step was to invite candidate material providers to formulate ESI measures in the RfGP. Then there are proposals. In a third phase, these proposals will be evaluated, and then, of course, the selection of a laureate will follow. Then, very importantly, the roll-out of the ESI measures follows. For the roll-out of the ESI measures, we will actually find ourselves in a new administrative and legal dynamic. Since we work in a gov-to-gov scenario, an agreement will be signed between Belgium and another state. In addition, agreements will be made with Belgium at the level of the relevant OEMs, the companies supplying the equipment concerned, as regards the implementation of the ESI proposals they have made. That's the second layer. The third layer is the agreements that will be made at project level between OEMs, US or UK OEMs in the context of the ACAP procedure or in the other cases the companies that will have submitted a bid. Those agreements will eventually lay down the modalities for the implementation of the specific projects offered under ESI. I believe that this explains the main dynamics of the market survey and the linked ESI projects. As you have just heard, there are also two other files that have been created in a different way, the CAMO file and the MALE file, where a sole source approach has been put forward. This means that Belgium has chosen to enter into talks with one particular partner country and/or partner manufacturer in order to establish a military partnership. The role that we as a government can play in that kind of files is different. We have no direct involvement there as a government, we have no evaluation files. What is actually happening is that we are considering how the Belgian industry, in parallel with the military partnerships that are being undertaken, can also enter into industrial partnerships with the country or industry in question. We are first and foremost observers in this area. We are looking at ways in which industry can enter into partnerships there. In the second phase, when contracts have been effectively concluded, we can play a role in monitoring. We can therefore report at regular intervals whether the agreements made under private law between the industries of the partners concerned are also being effectively implemented. As I said, this is the case for the CAMO file, as well as for the MALE file. We, the government, should be able to check once the contracts have been concluded whether the agreements made at the industrial level were also implemented as agreed by the private partners. I have thus explained the main elements of the dynamics and the two working methods. As mentioned by the President, we cannot yet give concrete figures at this stage. Karolien Grosemans, Chairman: Gentlemen, thank you for this explanation from the FPS Economy. We are now going to hear the last group of speakers. I invite Mr Eddy Van Der Meersch, Inspector General of Finance, Mr Bruno Lombaert of the law firm Stibbe and Lieutenant Colonel Baudouin Heuninckx, head of the Public Procurement Legal Cell in Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u36	Madam President, as regards the CAMO file, the IF refers to its opinion of 20 July 2018, Award in Stage. The opinion covers 9 pages. I refer to the obligation set out in relation to confidentiality, but in essence, the main points are questions about the pricing that may be on the high side and questions about the principles of pricing. No objection was expressed in final terms. As regards the file of MALE, the IF refers to its opinion of 19 January 2018, Command in stage beginning. The opinion covers 4 pages. The main comments relate to the difficult invaluability of operating and investment costs and the question of the sole source. As regards costs, IF requested additional information at the award stage. With regard to the sole source, the IF accepted the stated statement of reasons and finally delivered a favourable opinion. As regards ACCaP, the IF refers to its opinion of 31 May 2018, File in phase award. The opinion has 13 pages. The study was conducted by the IF for more than nine full days. It deals with the award study carried out by the Defence and the FPS Economy. The IF has based itself on the many documents submitted. The members of the ACAP team have been frequently questioned by the IF. The IF has also been informed by five members of the appointed experts of the review teams that have awarded and accounted for the specific award codes. I have talked to these people not only in terms of content, but also about the way things are going, for example with regard to the independent assessment of the ACAP team. The study conducted by the IF did not reveal any defects. This is explained in detail and formally confirmed in the opinion. The IF draws attention to the fact that it has been given the necessary time for its research. After extensive research, it concluded that the award proposal was based on a carefully and solidly built-up dossier. Consequently, the IF did not raise any objections to the proposal to launch the purchase programme in the conclusion of the opinion. Karolien Grosemans, President: Finally, we come to the two speakers on the legal part.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u37	Madam Chair, members of the committee, I will present to you the legal analysis which was carried out by the Defence of the French approach concerning the replacement of the F-16s. Following my presentation, Stibbe's law firm will present its own findings as an external opinion had been requested. Here is the content of the presentation that I will quickly review starting with the documents we received for analysis that reflect the French approach to replacing the F-16s. The first important point to remember was that the deadline for submitting government proposals in response to the RfGP was September 7, 2017. On September 6, 2017, we received a letter from the Minister of the French Army suggesting a comprehensive strategic partnership on combat aviation. This letter was supplemented around 4 October 2017 by an explanatory document which was transmitted by the Ambassador of France in Belgium and which constituted a short legal analysis carried out by France of the possibility for Belgium to continue a bilateral discussion with France in parallel with the RfGP process. What questions have we been asked to answer? First, is the letter from the French Minister a government proposal within the meaning of the RfGP? Secondly, what are the possible legal risks if the French Minister's letter was taken into account in the RfGP competitive procedure? Thirdly, on the basis of the said letter, can we have discussions with France in parallel with the competitive procedure of the RfGP of the ACCaP programme? What analyses have been carried out? Within Defence, two analyses and within the external firm Stibbe, two analyses also based on the delivery dates, first the letter and then the supplementary document. A first Defence opinion on 20 September, a second opinion on 19 October. These opinions have been drafted in cooperation between the DGJM, which is the Central Legal Service of Defence, and the DGMR, in particular my cell, which is the Legal Advisory Unit of the Public Procurement Division. On September 21, 2017, Stibbe submitted a first legal analysis of the French Army Minister's letter and a new legal analysis on October 10, following the delivery of the second French document. As I have already said, the analysis of Stibbe will be presented separately by interested parties. There are two legally important arguments for the ACCaP program. First, as already stated, this program is a government-to-government contract, which is therefore covered by an exclusion from the Defence and Security Act. However, this exclusion does not mean that anything can be done. The fundamental principles of the EU Treaties, such as transparency, equal treatment, non-discrimination, proportionality, etc., remain in force. In addition, the European Commission has published a communication on government-to-government contracts, which it is very strongly advised to follow. That is what has also been done. Under the ACCaP programme, Belgium invoked Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as mentioned above. However, even when this article is invoked, it is an exclusion for the whole of European law. Even when this exemption is invoked, the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union on how this exemption is applied must always be respected. I am thinking in particular of the proportionality of measures to protect essential security interests. If I am not mistaken, Colonel Van Pee has already indicated that the exemption has only been used to request measures to protect Belgium's essential security interests, not the entire procedure. What was our answer to the first question, namely: "Is the French Minister's letter a government proposal in line with the RfGP?" Our analysis is that it is not a government proposal, as the terms and rules of the RfGP for content delivery, form, etc. have not been respected. Even if it were to be considered as a government proposal, it would be subject to substantial irregularities, as its content did not meet the requirements of the RfGP. It follows that the French government agency... Even if it had been considered that an offer had been submitted, it should have been excluded from the competitive process of the ACCaP program. Moreover, in the documents submitted by France, it is clear that its intention was not to submit an offer within the framework of the ACCaP competition but to propose an alternative solution. The answer to the first question seems quite clear. The letter from the French Minister does not constitute a government proposal within the meaning of the RfGP. The second question is what would be the legal risks if the French Minister's letter were taken into account in the RfGP competitive procedure? Again, I refer you to what I mentioned earlier, namely that, even if we are in a government-to-government contract where the strictly speaking public procurement law does not apply, it is essential to follow the general principles and fundamental rules of the European Union treaties, such as transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination vis-à-vis the economic operators involved. Since France has not submitted a regular government proposal, it cannot therefore be considered a candidate in the RfGP competitive process. Continuing to deal with a proposal or a non-compliant document would clearly run counter to the principles of equal treatment in particular, as it would discriminate against candidates who have successfully submitted a government proposal in accordance with the RfGP. If Defence had taken into account the letter from the French Minister of Defence in the context of the RfGP, what would have been the risks? She would have exposed herself to criticism not only from the two candidates who were still competing, who had entered a full government proposal in full agreement with the requirements of the RfGP, but also potentially from the candidates who were no longer competing and who could have argued: "If I had known that it was enough to send a letter, I would have merely sent a letter instead of withdrawing from the process." These economic operators could appeal to the Council of State or to the competent courts in order to obtain damages for the costs incurred. In addition, Belgium could be the subject of an action for failure to comply with the rules of European law. It could end up before the Court of Justice of the European Union, following a complaint made either by the Commission or by another Member State. Such prosecutions could have operational consequences, such as delays in the provision of combat aircraft capacity, financial consequences and consequences for Belgium's image and credibility. Let me turn to the third question. Given that the French Minister's letter cannot be taken into account as it is in the RfGP's competitive procedure, is it possible to have discussions with France in parallel with the RfGP's competitive process? Our analysis is that this is not possible for a number of reasons, the first being that the RfGP framework was fully adapted to the French government proposal. There would therefore be no need to discuss a similar proposal in parallel with the competition. Moreover, we did not have a mandate from the Council of Ministers to do so. Above all, this would be contrary to the principles of transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination, since we would give preferential treatment to the letter sent by France in relation to the offers submitted in the framework of the RfGP competition. If Belgium had embarked on this path, it would have exposed itself to the same consequences as I mentioned in the previous transparent. If we refer to the content of the French approach instead of simply talking about procedure, we must know that many elements were discussed between the French agency and the ACCaP office before the public procurement procedure was launched, and even after the RfGP was sent. At no time did the French government agency, during these discussions, give the impression that it wanted to propose something larger than what was foreseen in the RfGP. When we analyse the limited information available on the French approach, we realize that the comprehensive strategic partnership on combat aviation, which is proposed in the Minister's letter, is in fact perfectly in line with what is requested by the RfGP. The French government would therefore have had the opportunity to introduce a government proposal in accordance with the RfGP, as it does not propose anything different on principle. Thank you for your attention and I will leave the floor to the representative of Stibbe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed been consulted on the question of how to qualify and how to deal with the letter from the French Minister. Like the staff, we have delivered two successive opinions. The first, on September 21, 2017, only took into account the letter from the French Minister of Defence. The second opinion, which was delivered a month later, on 20 October 2017, took into account, in addition to the Minister's letter, this undated and unsigned document entitled Legal analysis of the possibility for Belgium to continue, for the ACCaP programme, a bilateral discussion with France in parallel with the RfGP process. The essence of our opinions is as follows. We have taken into account, of course, the context of this project, and from two angles. The first angle concerns the very purpose of the RfGP and the procedure that has been carried out. It was not just about buying new platforms, combat aircraft. The aim was to conclude a long-term partnership between Belgium and a partner State, which covered, on the one hand, the purchase of platforms, but also a very wide range of equipment and services. I quote: operational support, technical support, pilot training, logistical and technical capacity to ensure the maintenance of the platforms and their scalability. The purpose of the operation was therefore not to conclude a contract for the purchase of supplies with an aircraft producer, but rather to enter into a government-to-government agreement, since only a State was likely to provide the Belgian State with a long-term partnership and the material and human capacities necessary to build up an air capacity and then to operate, maintain and scalable it throughout the life cycle. It was the object. And then there's the procedure. As you know, the Belgian State wanted to respect very strictly the principles of equality and transparency advocated by the European Commission, including for government-to-government agreements, which are not strictly public procurement. The RfGP was therefore adopted by the government. This RfGP provides for a procedure that has been described to you very precisely, award criteria. In short, it is a document which closely resembles a market document in the context of a procedure negotiated with publicity. We wanted to be very precise, very detailed and above all very objective in order to ensure equality and transparency, which was also respected in the fact that a publication of this RfGP took place and that government agencies which were perceived to be able to meet the needs of the Belgian State were contacted in the context of a preliminary market prospect and were invited to respond to the RfGP by submitting an offer. On the basis of this context, we considered that France's proposal, the letter from the French Minister of Defence, could not reasonably be qualified as an offer or as a proposal. First of all, because this letter does not contain any answers to the approximately 164 questions that were asked to state agencies and that had to be answered in the offer that had to be filed in order to respond to the RfGP. In fact, the letter does not make any concrete proposals within the framework of the RfGP. This is not a response to the call for tenders. On the contrary, this letter could only be interpreted as expressing France's willingness not to submit an offer under the RfGP procedure but to provoke another discussion with the Belgian State. As for the form, this letter clearly did not meet the requirements of the RfGP, the fourth part of which, entitled Proposal Guidelines, set out a number of formal rules to be followed. None of these forms are respected and there has been no submission of a proposal within the time limit provided to the ACCaP cell that was designated to receive the bids. Our analysis goes a step further. Not only could it not be considered a proposal, but it was also impossible for us to reintegrate in any way the French government agency into the procedure at the later stage of the best and final offer (BAFO), which was here called the best and final government proposal. These are the final tenders which, in the context of a competitive procedure, candidates may formulate. Of course, they are based on the negotiations that took place on the basis of the initial offers that were to be submitted. When they are not filed, the technical characteristics of their product or services are not given and prices are not given, it is obviously impossible to enter into negotiations and ask for a final offer. On this point, our conclusion was that it was impossible – even with the best will in the world – to consider the French minister's letter as a proposal that could be examined and dealt with in the RfGP procedure. It was simply not possible to compare it with other offers that met all the substantive and content requirements of the RfGP. The second question before us - even if I do not know whether I am taking them in order - was whether it was possible to terminate the procedure on the basis of the French minister's letter to discuss with France, leaving the others, in a way. We have explained in our opinions that, as in a procurement, this procedure allows for waiver, that it is permissible not to award a contract, even when a procedure has been initiated, but that this decision must be validly reasoned and based on serious and adequate grounds. If this is not the case, it may be appealed to the Council of State, which may suspend and annul it, or to the courts and tribunals, which may have adverse consequences for the Belgian State, which may have to pay damages if it has unlawfully terminated the proceedings. It seemed to us that, in the present case, a waiver of the procedure would have been justifiable only if France had proposed a partnership or collaboration of a completely different nature and scope than that covered by the RfGP. Therefore, we have made this comparison and we have obviously asked the defence services to do so as well, because they are better equipped than we are to understand from a technical point of view the nature of the services requested. When we simply stick to a control of the terms that are used, we find that there is still a very great similarity between what was written in the RfGP and what the French minister refers to. What was written in the RfGP? A long-term partnership to ensure scalability of systems over the entire estimated life period between 2018 and 2058, the implementation, maintenance and monitoring of the combat area capability – excuse me, I translate English – partnership and military cooperation, military partnership and cooperation and the follow on development support, monitoring in terms of development linked to scalability. When we read what is expressed in the letter of the French minister which contained a small annex (just a stapled page), what are we talking about? The supply of the Rafale combat aircraft is mentioned. There is talk of in-depth cooperation between the two air forces in the operational areas of training and support, industrial and technical cooperation involving companies from both countries, an association of Belgium with the ongoing work on the new Rafale standard, the joint preparation of the air combat of the future. It seemed to us, and it is also the reading of the Defence, that what France proposes in terms of the very vague surplus can quite easily enter into the object, the scope and within the framework of the RfGP. Therefore, France could have submitted an offer in which it developed these various aspects and that offer would have been examined and compared with the other admissible offers. Next question. If it is impossible to justify putting an end to the procedure and giving up, is it possible to negotiate in parallel, i.e. to continue to conduct the RfGP procedure and then to discuss in parallel with France? On the assumption that what France is proposing is not essentially different from what was requested in the RfGP and that therefore France would have been very well and probably even had to submit an offer under the RfGP if it wanted to see its proposal examined, it seems impossible to say that we could discuss in parallel with someone who did not respect the rules without discriminating and even severely those who respected them. It is not possible to compare offers in a process that has been settled, which creates objectivity, transparency and equality, and, at the same time, to discuss the same with a partner who is on the sidelines of the rules. If we did this and if we were to conclude a contract with France, we would say to them: "Sorry, you have respected the rules, but it will not be you". The risks would be very high for the Belgian State to be charged and prosecuted for failing to comply with the rules of equality and transparency. The appeals were referred to. It is of course possible that an action may be brought before the Council of State, since the Belgian State which grants a contract or a public contract is an administrative authority which takes an administrative act justiciable from the Council of State. The theory of the act of government, which was evoked by France, if received in France, is much less so in Belgium. There are no examples in the jurisprudence of the Council of State. The Council of State reportedly said that it was too important, too politically charged for it to agree to check whether it was legal or not. Our prognosis is that if such an argument were invoked before the Council of State, in the event of an appeal, the Council of State would not agree to follow it, especially since here we are still subject to European obligations such as equality and transparency, even in a government-to-government agreement. To imagine the Council of State saying that it will not enforce European law because the subject is too sensitive is a risky presupposition; I would certainly not try this way. The possibility of an action for failure to fulfil obligations brought by the European Commission before the Court of Justice is not to be excluded. Such an appeal may also be brought by a Member State. It is known that some could do so among the candidates who participated in the procedure. Claims for damages are not to be excluded either. When one knows the amounts involved, one must imagine that one candidate can show before a judge that he has lost a very serious chance of having the contract, because the Belgian State has committed one fault by granting it to another outside of a procedure. We risk paying our planes, not twice, but one and a half times. Here are the broad outlines of our analysis. Thank you for your attention. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: Mr Lombaert, thank you. Colleagues, with my colleague, Chairman of the Defence Committee, on my own behalf and on behalf of all of you, I would like to thank our guests and all the speakers. Thank you, gentlemen – I can't say ladies and gentlemen – for the information you gave us based on your respective expertise. Before I begin the discussion and exchange of views, I would like to make a small personal consideration. In the first hour of our committee, there was a rather lively discussion on the organization of work. Some have expressed remarks, criticisms and inquiries about the organization of work. As everyone knows, I am a member of the opposition. Therefore, I am a president of the opposition. The Speaker of the House, Mr. Bracke, asked me yesterday to co-chair this joint commission. In principle, I have seen no difficulty in exercising this prerogative in this case. I would just like to make it clear that I did not participate in the organization of work. I therefore did not take part in the decision on the title of the agenda, the choice of guests or absent persons and any other matter. That may well go without saying, but I wanted to point it out. Having said that, the exchange of views is open. We shall give the floor to Members in the order of size of the political groups. We take note of the names of the colleagues who wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u39	Madam President, Mr President, in my turn I would like to thank all the speakers, all of whom are indeed male speakers, for the explanations we have been given here. It is good to have everything listed again and to hear where we are at the moment and from what perspective we have been given this explanation. I don't have a lot of questions. What needs to be stressed is that we have heard a number of very clear things here from Mr Eddy Van Der Meersch of the Treasury Inspectorate. I understand, and I hope we have all heard it, that there are no objections from the Finance Inspectorate in the three procedures, which have been explained in detail here. The trial went well. In particular, the ACAP file deals with a very intense process that has been carried out in very intense collaboration with, and with information gathering of, the Treasury Inspectorate. This has led to the final finding that there are no defects. In my view, this is a very punctual question, given the brief but very clear explanation given by Mr Van Der Meersch, that the Finance Inspectorate gave an unconditional favourable opinion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u40	Madam President, Mr President, I naturally associate myself with the thanks extended by my colleagues to the experts, although I must confess that we have witnessed a huge communication and smoke ceremony on the part of the government. We have not learned much, since most of the information received today had already been obtained, whether through your answers to our questions, Minister – I must admit – in the Military Purchases and Sales Committee, where, oddly enough, certain information had to remain closed, before becoming public today. We'll have to help us solve this mystery. "Fuck!", As my colleague Hellings says. On the other hand, I sometimes felt like I was watching a movie on Canal+ without paying for the subscription, because between the secret information Defense, the confidentiality clauses, the trade secrets, we're missing a series of information. Personally, I have to tell you that I have learned more from reading the press this morning than from coming here for an afternoon to participate in this fairly well orchestrated communication operation – I must admit – of the government. Having said that, I'm still going to ask you a few questions to show that I didn't come for nothing and that we didn't have quality people moved in vain. First of all, I am delighted to have finally heard the SPF Economy, because my group has been asking for months, for all the markets we have talked about today, to hear, on the one hand, the Minister of Economy – whose presence we would have liked to have been at this meeting, but probably he was in the trenches with the Prime Minister... – and, on the other hand, the federated entities. Indeed, for each case, we had regularly requested that hearings be held, which we did not obtain. As they seem to have been associated, since there is an assessment of the economic benefits in the various regions, I would like to know how they have been in the three markets that you mentioned to us. Above all, what is the reason for a 10% breakdown in the file evaluation? Then I'll ask you more questions – probably more general. In today's Defence markets, are prices fixed or variable? This is important because when entering a market, it is important to know whether it is a fixed price or whether it is likely to vary with time. What has been decided on this matter in these three files? Can we be assured that the advertised price for the F-35 is a fixed price? In addition, before being cut off in my speech, I asked you to explain why these planes are grounded in a range of countries that have opted for their purchase. I have not heard a response to this in the technical elements. And especially what of the U.S. Congress that is thinking about continuing to invest funds in this program, given all the technical failures? In this regard, you can cite a series of press and reference articles on this subject. Since we are told that no choice has yet been made and that this is one of the reasons why we cannot answer some of our questions or give us some information, I would also like to know what is the compatibility of the two models that are still in dispute with the future supply kits of the A400Ms that are coveted by Belgium? With regard to the F-35 and its software, are they compatible with an emancipated European strategy within NATO? I didn't feel like I had an answer. Finally, in order not to be too long, I am asking a final question with regard to the French offer. On July 4, 2018, the Prime Minister promised me – we have the text in hand – that a legal study complementary to the one already on the table would be done. I have heard Mr Lombaert speak of an external study, but, as I understand it, it dates back to 2017. I therefore assume that once again, by promising an additional external commission, on 4 July 2018, to the Defence or Interior Committee, the Prime Minister was still in a smoking operation. What is certain is that in terms of camouflage, we do not need a new market. The government is proving itself!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u41	Madam President, Mr President, I am not going to go back to what my colleague has said. The number of debates that we have already had in this House, the number of questions that have been asked, without referring to the debates in open session, was recalled earlier. At today's sitting, contrary to the habit of being in camera, information was given in public to all colleagues, to the press and, through them, to our fellow citizens on extremely important issues of military purchases. Perhaps the members of the Military Procurement Commission, who meet in camera, may have re-enacted certain things. In the course of the discussions, some elements have already been put forward, but I will retain what I see as providing elements for a response. There is a question, repeated here earlier, about the French proposal. There was a call for tenders. This call for tenders has been put in place through a procedure which the largest administrative authorities in our country have said is all they think is right. There was no comment, the Finance Inspectorate gave its go-ahead. It's not nothing. This procedure was developed by the government under the responsibility of the Minister of Defence. This is a completely new element in the way our country has previously managed this type of case. We have to remind him by the way! France indicated that it no longer intended to participate in this procedure, although it could have done so very well. The demonstration given to us by Mr Lombaert was quite enlightening. Not only could it have done so, since it had participated in the first discussions, but in addition, the semblance of content that France transmitted was approaching the objectives as defined in the procedure to such an extent that even to start a discussion would cause problems and put our country in difficulty. This, whether or not we regret it or feel that the Rafale aircraft had qualities and abilities that would have surprised us. We need to talk about abilities that would have surprised us as it is a future-oriented plane. I heard that in the basic offer, there was no price. It was therefore impossible to enter into a discussion. I would really like that to be repeated in the answer I am waiting for. Today, how much could we estimate the price of the Rafale aircraft? I say this, Madam President, after listening carefully to everything that has been said to us by the people who have been interviewed. I also heard members of the opposition put forward and cleared everywhere that it was absolutely necessary to buy the Rafale and that it was not necessary to buy another device. I, a little naively, a little blissfully, would like to know, from all the services that have been able to study all this, how much the cost of this gusting plane would be. I hope they don't tell me there's no price. I would like to know because that would mean that my opposition colleagues, and Mr Dallemagne in particular, say everywhere that you have to buy a device without knowing the price! When I buy a car or something, I like to know the price.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u42	Anything! Never!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u43	Not anything. I heard you, you've been repeating this everywhere. You said it on the radio, TV, etc. Indeed, you never said you wanted to buy a plane without knowing the price. Of course you didn't say! You have hidden from the public the fact that you recommend buying a device whose price is unknown. We're not fighting, Mr. Dallemagne! Every time, we fight. I don't want to argue with you. You started talking about camouflage earlier. It's not my fault you want your country to buy planes without knowing the price. There's no problem, Mr. Dallemagne. Don't be ashamed of your point of view!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u44	I never said that. I just asked for an analysis of this offer!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u45	Mr. Dallemagne, you know, I'm also connected. I'm also listening to radio, television, social media. I see and I hear what you're saying. And you recommended that. I'm sorry for you, Mr. Dallemagne. It is too easy to stand before the public by putting forward things that are impossible. I come back to what we heard. It has been made clear by the two people who have been in charge of this issue that it is impossible to take this offer into consideration, unless we want to put our country at risk. That's the first thing. The second important thing, but I have already said at the beginning of my speech, is this procedure. In my view, it makes great sense that our country can achieve such a market by means of a procedure which we have wanted, which has been implemented and which will lead to a result which we do not yet know but in which, it seems to me, after hearing all our specialists, we can a priori have confidence. The third element relates to what my colleague, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, said. I'm not gonna argue with her, because I'm a little bit of her opinion too. However, we have read several reports this morning in the press. These are probably leaks, most likely anonymous. But finally, these are elements that we have been able to read in La Libre Belgique, I believe, about the American offer. Minister, I am not asking you to reveal the content of the offer. I have heard that this would be very difficult. But I would still like to know a little more, because in the press, we find the idea that the American offer is still inferior. A specific amount was given to the press. I would still like to know your opinion on this. The press also refers to the use that could be made of this amount, particularly in terms of investment and economic benefits. Minister, without wishing to cause any difficulty, I would still like to ask you what you can tell us, in keeping with the secrecy of the negotiations. At least address the issue of how to pre-finance economic benefits. Is there anything planned? Is this information relevant or not? Thank you, Minister, for the answers that you would like to give. Jean-Marc Delizée,Chair: Thank you very much. Mr. Miller is an outstanding colleague. When the debates are calm, we can always count on him to put animation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u46	Mr President, journalists and others are asking whether this was necessary? What I am learning today is the very clear legal advice on the French letter. I compare this with a mayor who wants to modernise the footpaths in his municipality and call for a tender. A number of contractors deal with this. Suppose a mayor of a friendly village says that the procedure is running, but I have a number of companies here that I would like to bring to your attention. Is it not possible that they still participate in the current tender? One would hesitate to put that mayor in jail or not. One would be outraged if one were to consider that. This was considered here. There were also political games played. It is perhaps also the reason why we are here today, to clarify that. I think there was that clarity. I didn't have to look into this legally either. It is not moral to understand that when a tender is submitted, a different file is suddenly brought up laterally. It is very bizarre that there are defenders of this method. Given that everyone should already have known or knew that this is not a normal way of doing things or is not a normal neighbourly country to do something like this, I wonder if we will get a presentation of fighter planes, drones and armored vehicles or the Minister can explain the following. There is a friendly country that is doing a manoeuvre and is actually trying to disrupt our procedures, which is difficult to place in the good neighbourly category. Isn't that country being rewarded? They say the fighter planes won't be for you, but we do have a second prize in store for you. You can make armored vehicles for our country, or you will be very closely involved. Now that that conclusion is so clearly on the table that what the French have tried to do is almost illegal or at least bizarre, are they not rewarded here with the armored vehicles? Isn't that the perception? And doesn't that have an enormous precedent value? If our country will issue an open tender next time, we will not say: if you interfere with our procedures, will you be rewarded with a second choice, but still a nice package? Minister, should this not be seen as a precedent? Can you clarify this? However, that does not rule out the possibility of working with the French. Anyone who is a bit of a convinced European might think that it is hopefully the last time that we have to buy American, if that is what we would do. Can we not buy European next time, namely competitive European appliances with stealth options or with a well-developed vertical and horizontal stealth? Everyone in this Chamber is sensitive to that and would perhaps prefer it. In this respect, my second question is whether we cannot work together with the French and the other Europeans to develop the next generation of fighter planes together, in an organized way, not stomping through a note in our mailbox? Can we somehow work with the French and other friendly Europeans to develop such a next generation fighter jet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u47	Mr President, on behalf of our group, I would like to thank the many speakers for the clear information they have given us. I found everything positive today and I want to start with a positive note myself. It's good to see that Defense is investing in the renewal of the equipment. It is also good to talk today about the renewal of the rolling stock in the army and the MALE drones. We also know that a file arrives or runs in the Navy to replace the ships. This committee is overshadowed or overwhelmed by the replacement of the F-16, but we must not forget that in the coming years there will be considerable investment in the entire Defence apparatus. Today it was confirmed that the procedure was fully legal. We should also remember that the decision of principle to replace the F-16s was taken by the then government in 2011. Preparations were already being made in the Defense Department to launch an RfGP. That procedure is very transparent. MEPs have been able to look at large pieces of the RfGP. That's never happened before. At the end of the procedure we find that there were two full answers. Today it has also been confirmed that the French letter actually had no legal value and was not an answer to the RfGP. Open Vld has always argued in this dossier, for years, to replace the F-16s in order to guarantee security within and outside Belgium, but also to continue to be a loyal partner in NATO. We have always said that the replacement of the F-16 should be the best device for the best price, quality for the best price. It should also improve Belgian companies. This is also a piece of the dossier on which we have just been briefed: there must be a direct return for Belgian companies, but in fact the indirect return is the most important. This is not to be underestimated, and when talking to companies, they only confirm that: the indirect return for the next 10, 20 and 30 years will result from access to new and innovative technologies that companies can develop further. That creates long-term opportunities for them. We have only one question for the government: make the decision to buy the best equipment for the best price so that we can replace the F-16 with dignity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u48	Mr President, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what have we been through this afternoon? Was it a joke or is it to cry? I read out what the Prime Minister said yesterday in the Chamber: 'We have opted for a procedure in which, together with Parliament, we are trying to measure the advantages and disadvantages of the proposals for the replacement of fighter aircraft against each other.' Have you heard any considerations here? I didn't hear anything. What did I learn new today? The last two speakers referred to the legal advice of the Stibbe office, but we all knew that. I learned today that the offers include 3 000 pages, that there is an evaluation of the ACAP of 640 pages and that the Finance Inspectorate has delivered a report of 13 pages. That's what I learned. But nothing has been heard here today about the content, about the consideration that the Prime Minister spoke about. What else did I learn today? I learned today that the Defense Department keeps track of the slides of previous presentations in the Chamber. We saw a slide from April 2018 and we even saw one that we already saw in 2016. What have we not heard, even though it was promised by the Prime Minister in plenary? I have heard nothing today about a study of sp.a's proposal to extend the lifetime of the F-16s by six years. I'm still totally hungry. My conclusion is therefore clear. The Prime Minister, myself and also the outside world have a different vision of what we call transparency. Today, not even a start has been made on lighting up the veil. I didn't learn anything today. If you're honest, you're gonna have to admit it. I'm a positivo. I'll try to learn something today anyway. I have a question for the Secretary of Defense regarding the Request for Government Proposal. The CHOD, Compernol, said a few weeks ago that he heard from the sp.a. and others from the opposition the claim that this request was tailored to the F-35. He challenged us to find the word stealth in this Request for Government Proposal. Technically, he's right. Op Pagina 8 van de request lees ik evenwel, ik quote:"State to state conflicts are likely to be characterized by an antiaccess/area denial. The operational requirement for Belgian air combat capability that results from this mission environment is defined in part 3 and annex C". In human terms this means that this request contains as a criterion that the new Belgian aircraft can operate from the first minute, shoulder to shoulder, in very dangerous, enemy territory. Colleagues, our air force has never done this before. We have always left that to others, and rightly so. This is a mission of large states with large air forces. The fact that this is what it says reminds me that this may have come about because of all the candidates, out of the five who participated, there is only one who can meet that condition in the Request for Government Proposal, namely: the F-35. Do you think, Minister, that if this aircraft is purchased, Belgium must have a capacity that the French and Germans do not have and that we will be operating in a very dangerous area, heavily protected by air defence, from the first minute? If the answer to that is yes, I'd like to hear it. If the answer is no, then I know that the only reason why this is in this text of Request for Government Proposal is to give a head start to the F-35. I'm going to page 46 of the Request for Government Proposal. Daar staat onder punt 15.5, growth and evolution potential, volgende zin:"How well these plans allow Belgium to meet NATO qualitative capability targets." Is there anyone who knows these targets? The minister knows them. Because in 2017, I thought in June, together with his colleagues in Defence, the Minister decided that Belgium promised full-stealth planes to NATO. This process of agreement between NATO and Member States on these targets is a process that the two parties must agree to. There is no obligation to accept this. Mr Minister, I am addressing this question to you. Is it true that, as a result of that 2017 meeting, stealth was given a definition that makes it clear that stealth refers to aircraft that are stealth by shape, and that are stealth because they can absorb ammunition into the hull? Is it true that in June 2017, in those target capacities, unlike previous targets, stealth means by shape and include ammunition in the hull? According to my information, that was agreed there in June 2017. Again I catch Chief of Staff Compernol, I won't say a lie, because he may have formulated that wisely, but more than implicitly it is clear that another advantage is created in the Request for Government Proposal by stating that it is stealth by shape and ammunition in the hull. That one does not come up with the argument of secrecy. I would like to know the appreciation of the ACCaP team at this point, to see how many points the Typhoon and the F-35 score on that criterion. I also have two questions for the Treasury Inspectorate. I'm puzzled and I hope you can help me. The Dutch had first ordered 37 aircraft, but have reduced that number to 34 because the costs are increasing. They will pay 4.5 billion for their 34 F-35s, although they have entered development from the start. Belgium also received this offer at the time, with the promise that, if we were to start developing from the start, this would result in a lower price for the aircraft. My question to the Finance Inspectorate is whether it can explain why, if Belgium were to purchase 34 aircraft, it would cost EUR 3.6 billion? If I could believe the papers, it would be even lower. Can one explain why these prices for Belgium are significantly lower than for the Dutch, at least EUR 900 000 per aircraft? I have a second question for the Treasury Inspectorate and, hopefully, an opinion at the same time. There's a case in point: the costs of the F-35 are swinging out of control. The Canadians have ordered 65 F-35s for this reason and for the sake of mischief or irregularities. According to the press, the Americans are considering not ordering a third of the F-35s they wanted to buy, because of the fact that the costs are spreading. In Denmark they bought F-35s. The Danish Court of Auditors states in its report that the costs were greatly underestimated. In Britain, a report has been produced by the House of Lords, which says: we cannot approximate how much this will cost us. My question to the Finance Inspectorate is what budgetary guarantees it proposes to avoid a serious budgetary slippage in Belgium? Is a financial fence placed around purchase and maintenance costs? Please, I'm almost begging you, if you do, against your better judgment, can we drive or cancel the entire contract when the costs are swinging out of the pan? Please include such a provision in the contract. Other countries have done the same. Do not allow under pressure of a signed contract this military purchase will eventually lead to the bankruptcy of powers other than the Air Force. This is what I had to say about today's hallucinating display.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u49	Madam President, Mr President, I thank all the interlocutors for this afternoon. Minister, three major issues have been presented to us: the tanks already presented on 6 June 2017 in perfectly accurate terms in the Committee on Military In camera Purchases and Sales, the MALE drones already presented on 30 January 2018 in almost identical terms and a presentation by Colonel Van Pee also made in the Defence Committee almost identical. Coming here, I expected to find a comparative picture of the two competing competitors, namely the Typhoon of Eurofighter and the F-35 of Lockheed Martin. Even if you could not give us the decision that will be yours, since it belongs to the members of the government, at least we could, possibly in camera, compare here the two offers, as they were given to you. That said, there is a clear advance in relation to the information that has been given to us. We now have all the legal arguments that have always been hidden from us in relation to the rejection of the French offer, and I follow you in this regard. I fully agree with the Defence services that the French offer is not an answer to a public procurement where approximately 140 questions in English had to be answered. It's the only step forward. Mr Minister of Defence, will these three dossiers which have been presented to us successively today be the subject of a joint decision in the Council of Ministers? This would justify the fact that you presented us again today with these three dossiers that we already knew by heart. My second question goes directly to Colonel Van Pee, whom I do not want to make uncomfortable. It is of course not up to him to answer political questions or to say which hunter-bomber Belgium will choose. However, in its various interventions in relation to the cost estimate, there has always been a reference to a purchase amount of EUR 3.6 billion. Two and a half years ago, Colonel Van Pee presented an estimated total cost (training, maintenance, technical change, etc.) over the lifespan of fighter-bombers who will replace the F-16 of 15 billion over forty years. But I went to see on the website of the Agency for Security and Defence Cooperation of the US Department of Defense which, in a note released on 18 January 2018, indicates that the Belgian government could buy 34 fighter-bombers. I'm not saying the decision was made, no:As you asked to buy 35-F? The first paragraph of this note indicates that the estimated price for the entire purchase, which includes the weapons and technical system in general, is estimated at $6.53 billion, at today's exchange rate - as I have just calculated - at €5.73 billion. I am aware that the F-35 is just one of the competitors. However, knowing that an official agency of the US Department of Defense estimates the market at this level, while it has always been presented to us as EUR 3.6 billion, how can this difference be justified? At the same time, we have heard an opinion from the Italian Court of Auditors. I would remind you that Italy has been part of the F-35 programme since the beginning, but it is in a different situation from ours. Indeed, we will buy – possibly – these devices "on the shelf", since we are not part of this program. In its report - it would be interesting to obtain the view of our Court of Auditors, since I assume that its advisers have discussed with their European counterparts, whose respective country is participating in the F-35 programme - the Italian Court of Auditors shows that the price has doubled compared to the estimates made at the time of purchase. I would therefore like to hear the Court of Auditors on this point, because it is always necessary to rely on the experience of others in order not to make the same mistakes. The Court of Auditors and the Finance Inspectorate made extensive interventions on essential security interests. We have discussed this a lot, minister. These "essential security interests" are the new politically correct name, according to you, in line with the 2009 directive which prohibits economic compensation. In fact, these are economic compensations. These account for 10% of the calculation which will be prepared to compare the different offers. From the outset, the two bodies mentioned above felt that Belgium would mobilise Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, namely the Treaty of Lisbon, in order to obtain an exception to this directive which prohibits economic compensation. It's a risk. Moreover, in its opinion, which was attached to the dossier sent to Members, the Finance Inspectorate considered that, since economic compensation was prohibited, it posed a significant risk. The concept of security interest is also being mobilised. Both pose a legal and financial risk to the market. That is why, Minister, remember: we suggested that you ask the European Commission for an opinion on mobilising this 10% for the essential security interests which are actually economic compensation. I ask the Finance Inspectorate and the Court of Auditors: in your opinion, is the way in which the candidates competing for the replacement of the F-16s have submitted an offer for economic compensation, which is in fact called 'essential security interests', in accordance with European law? In which case, there would be a significant legal risk on the market. This legal risk would therefore entail compensation or debt to be paid by Belgium. I would add that an interpretation note on economic compensation has been edited in English by the European Commission to ensure that States correctly apply the 2009 Directive prohibiting economic compensation. This guidance note states that economic compensation is prohibited and that essential security interests cannot be used as economic compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting here in the House as a Defence Committee, which is normal, but also as a Committee on Economic Affairs. Let us remember that if a 2009 directive bans economic compensation, it is because it has caused a lot of problems in the past. Out of charity, I will not mention the names of the arms companies that were concerned with these problems; but economic compensation is not possible. They would eventually be possible if Belgian companies were involved, in one way or another, in the programme in which we will indirectly participate by purchasing 34 bomber fighters. All the experts we have heard about this market will tell you that there is not a single Belgian company that now manufactures a component, either Typhoon or F-35. I am referring to Belgian companies that manufacture a component in Belgium. I think it will be extremely difficult to justify to the European Commission that we have chosen a particular aircraft because economic compensation has been given to a particular company in a particular region. I will conclude with the interesting legal notes presented by the Defence Legal Service. Minister, you didn't need to call Stibbe. The Defence Legal Service was right, the French offer is not a response to the public procurement. There is a hypothesis that neither the Defence Legal Service nor Stibbe have worked: the mobilization of Article 8 of the RfGP which says that publishing a specification does not imply that the contract will be held. This is a hypothesis that has not been considered at all by the jurists. In view of the fact that there were only two candidates running, given that there was at least uncertainty about the French offer given, given the fact that in the meantime, a more or less whimsical president has come to the head of the United States and that, in the meantime, Britain has decided to leave the European Union – we know that Eurofigther is massively British – could we not, for serious and appropriate reasons, mobilise Article 8, put things down and not pass the market? I think it was the best solution to have a calm debate, to possibly consider a long-term partnership with a European ally and to get out of this market which, I think, weighs a lot of mortgages both on the future of the Air component of Defence, Defence in general and, more generally, on the state budget, the one for which all Belgians pay. Jean-Marc Delizée, Chair: We are suspending work for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u50	Mr President, I would briefly like to take up the chronology of the last few days. On Monday, several press articles tell us that the decision is made by the government. I also receive a whole series of information from different sources saying that it is folded, it is done, the decision of the government is made. Tuesday, there are several of us to question the Prime Minister here in the House. He tells us: "Not at all, the decision is not made, but you will have all the information, and you will be at the level of government information on this matter." It's Wednesday. This committee has just taken place and several of the previous speakers have said that we have not learned much. I have the impression that Parliament is being instrumentalized in a bad room, which is being used to justify, legitimize, to wrap up the government's decision, which I hear will be taken tomorrow. Again, it's information. We'll see what's going on, but that's what's going on today. I already had the opportunity to say that it was a bad piece, that it was rushed and that it was made under American pressure. Among the very few pieces of information we have received today, there is more detail on the legal opinions given to us regarding the exclusion of the French offer. I am still a little surprised to see that there is a need for legal advice as to whether or not, for example, this proposal, this letter from the French Minister of Defence, is in line with the RfGP. I felt, as a poor doctor, that I could easily answer that question, that there could hardly be parallel discussions. But the central question before us today is: what is the combat aircraft that best responds to our security challenges and geopolitical challenges? We have, as we know, a procedure that takes us straight into the wall. We've got a procedure that's biased. Dirk Van der Maelen called him back. A coded language was used in the specifications which did not allow us to understand exactly what it was about, but it was a question of favouring the stealth side of the plane that we would buy, even though one wonders what it could be used for in the current missions that we are conducting in combat. As far as the specifications are concerned, I will come here briefly because I think that is ultimately the question that leads us to choose a wrong plane. I really regret, since it seems that these legal opinions tell us that we could not analyse this French offer, that we did not simply decide. I take note of that. Legal advice is like doctors. Everyone has their opinion. We heard from Stibbe, who is a bit of the government's suicide cabinet on difficult issues and Defence. I did not expect legal opinions that would ultimately contradict the line that the Minister of Defence had always imposed on us on this issue. But since we may take note that their word is golden, I do not understand why at some point, we do not decide that all this leads us straight into the wall and that we would actually do better to revive an offer. Contrary to what Mr. Miller said, I never pleaded for the purchase of a French plane or for the purchase of it without knowing the price. On the other hand, I have fought for a European option and for an attempt to speed up the construction of Europe through this extraordinary lever. We had at least two other devices if not more: the Eurofighter which is also a European solution and this Rafale and, since it was a matter of completely reopening the specifications and the procedure, why not the Gripen or other European devices? I'm sorry we're going to go to a bad device and I'm going to say a few words because this will be the only opportunity I'll have to do it. I'll also ask a few questions. First, there are major budgetary risks. All the countries that have acquired F-35s today are biting their fingers on the budget and have had to reduce the acquisition of fighter aircraft. It's obvious. To deny it seems to me a serious mistake. Taking for cash the figure that is circulating today of some $85 million is a major mistake. We know that the costs of this program have slipped substantially, so that they are much higher than those that are advanced. It is well known that this programme has fallen behind enormously, at least six to seven years. Similarly, we know that purchases of F-35, and several countries have already been cited, are down. This means that the unit price will go up. We also know, thanks to the report of the US Court of Auditors (Government Accountability Office), that I have before me, that the development of our block of F-35 - that is, block 4, because no one has ever contradicted me about it - has still not been budgeted by Lockheed Martin. In addition, the U.S. Congress estimated that its cost was $16 billion and that it would finance only half of it. This means that those who acquire this device will have to finance its development and integrate this price into their budget estimates. Others recalled that the United States Congress had calculated that our acquisition would amount to $6.5 billion. So it is not at all the price that we are trying to increase that it will be the one to which the device will be sold to us. The British have just estimated the cost of their aircraft - yet they were Lockheed Martin's first and most substantial partners - at $125 million. This estimate just fell. The House of Commons has just submitted a staggering report on the F-35: "The MoD (Minister of Defence)'s failure to provide adequate costs estimates for his procurement of the F-35, either on a comprehensive program based or on a percraft based, as wholly unsatisfactory. This is unacceptable quick of transparency and risks undermining public confidence in the program". That is what the British say, yet one of the great partners of the Americans, about the price of this plane. The operating price of the device is – when we analyse the specialized press – much higher than what we are trying to grow. In any case, it is of the order of double to that of the Eurofighter. The Norwegians have just calculated it for their own planes. The price is $50,000 per hour of flight. This would be equivalent to an annual expenditure of $340 million for Belgium, instead of the current cost of $190 million for the F-16. That is what the budgetary aspect is all about. I alert and warn about the serious budget slips that we will experience through this programme and this acquisition. On the second part, namely capacity, I would first like to clarify definitively a fundamental question. Do we buy the F-35s because of their nuclear port capacity? Have we asked the Americans about this? Are the Americans ready for the bombs that are in Kleine-Brogel to be carried by aircraft other than their own (Eurofighter or Rafale)? Has that question been asked to them? Depending on the answer, either all planes can carry these nuclear bombs, or only American planes can carry them - as we have been told on several occasions - because they will not give, we are told, the keys to firing these bombs. If so, again, this call for tenders would be a complete masquerade. As far as capacity is concerned, we know and this is indicated implicitly but consistently in the call for tenders, the main feature of this aircraft is stealth. stealth is obviously a quality but it is a quality that is extremely transitory. It is in fact a great illusion because we already know that radars are being developed by the Chinese, Russians and Canadians. From what I read in the press, new quantum-technology radars can already or will soon be able to detect the F-35. I would also remind you that stealth is only valid in front of you when the plane arrives. When it starts to move, this stealth gets lost, especially when, in certain combat situations, one is forced to put bombs or weapons outside the carling. In this case, stealth completely disappears. Moreover, this stealth, of which I recall that it is a great illusion, has been made at the expense of all the other aspects of the aircraft: its manoeuvrability, its range of action, its bearing on armaments, etc. All this has been reduced because of this criterion of stealth which was absolutely sought to have. Today, this is a real problem for this aircraft, which, in terms of its combat capability, is seriously handicapped by this issue of stealth. I would also point out that the availability of this aircraft, according to various sources, would be much less, for example, than that of the Eurofighter. I'm told the Eurofighter has a 90% availability. The F-35 would have a 50 per cent availability. This means that 50 per cent of aircraft must remain on the ground systematically, and only 17 of our future aircraft will be able to fly at the same time. This will be the maximum availability that will be achieved. I would have liked to have the Defence's comments on this issue. But in any case, that's the information I've received. As far as industrial, societal returns are concerned, what I am hearing is that the defence industry has not been consulted on these aspects. On the other hand, she's organized herself. She's had a lot of dialogue with her. She checked her skills and how the work could be done. It tells us, this defence industry in Belgium, that it was approached by Eurofighter and Dassault, but that at no time Lockheed-Martin was interested in these societal returns in Belgium, and that therefore there is a total mist on the possibility of having societal returns in Belgium. It is more than likely that the only possible societal returns will be to manufacture certain parts that have been designed and developed elsewhere. I come to statements that have been made, which I have read in La Libre Belgique, but not only, on the fact that this plane would eventually be 600 million cheaper than expected and that it would make it possible to pre-finance and guarantee economic returns. If I understand that correctly, it would mean that public funds will be used to finance upgrading, industrial return, a capacity for the Belgian industry to respond to certain orders that would be sent to it. I ask myself the question of the legality of this possibility. Is there not a market that could be distorted, competition that could be distorted? In any case, this was not described in the call for tenders. Is there suddenly the possibility, as a last resort, of being able to finance the Belgian industry? I'm not asking better, of course. But they are still public funds. Can they be sent to the Belgian industry in order to be able to upgrade them, possibly in the context of orders which would have been placed by a single supplier which would have been chosen by the Belgian Defence? That's about the F-35. I also hear what we are reminded of on the procedures for tanks and drones. As far as tanks are concerned, I am surprised that it is necessary to wait more than a year to place an order. Indeed, the Belgian Government's decision on tanks took place in June 2017. We were told at that time that this was a strategic partnership that went much further than a tank order. This is a decision of the Council of Ministers in June 2017. Why was the contract for fighter aircraft expected to be concluded in order to sign this order? Was it, in any way, a matter of weighing up, of granting this market to France only if a decision was taken in the other direction concerning combat aircraft? Why did these files have to be mixed up? Have there been any procedures which appear to me to be opaque or difficult to understand, in this kind of big deal where consolation lots are distributed after having awarded the most important contract? I'm very surprised. I would also like to know how CMI found itself in this story. I would remind you that there was only one heavy equipment that we could develop in Belgium, i.e. tank turrets, of which the whole world seems to want quality, performance and low cost. Indeed, the Americans, Canadians and others buy them from us, but we could not compete with them. French equipment had to be purchased as part of an extensive strategic partnership over the counter. I use the terms that the Minister of Defence used in June 2017. We couldn't do it on combat planes, we were told, for legal reasons. We did it for the equipment that was available in Wallonia. No luck for Wallonia: she wasn't involved. This equipment will be manufactured by France. Since CMI was complaining a lot, it seems they will be able to assemble the plates. Not bad! I imagine they will also be offered to put the painting on the turrets! That's how it happened for the tanks. As far as drones are concerned, I am surprised by the explanations given to us. We've been told there's only the Sky Guardians U.S. drones. Moreover, these are used by different countries. According to my information, the drone we will only use from 2025, depending on the date you indicated, does not exist at this time. This drone has yet to be developed. The Germans, on the other hand, made a call from the foot. It fell from the truck, but I have a letter from the German Ministry of Defence to the Belgian Ministry of Defence, inviting the Belgian Ministry of Defence to cooperate with the Heron TP drone they have developed. It is initially an Israeli technology, but it is now developed by Airbus, by various European operators. I also understand that different Belgian companies would be very interested in the development of this Heron TP drone which is much faster available on the market, which seems to pose far less problems of approval to fly in the European sky. Indeed, from the moment the software remains in the hands of the Americans, problems will arise so that a drone can fly in the European sky. It seems that to be approved when it comes to aviation, it is necessary to be certain that the operator is familiar with the keys and software at European level. The information I have is different, but, once again, it is complicated to talk about all these issues in a hasty and sloppy manner, as you are imposing on us today. I would remind you that we are talking about three different markets, each of which is important. Having said that, I have the feeling that we had a choice, contrary to the note that was given to us in the Military Purchases Committee and that we had no choice, there was only one technology. We have a choice and we have a very close partner, namely Germany, who pushes us from the foot and who would have liked us to develop with it this Heron TP which is available more quickly, which poses less problems of approval and which does not handicap, on the contrary, the development of a Eurodrone MALE. I would remind you that this Eurodrone will probably have to be able to intervene in 2026. We are therefore going to buy American drones in 2025, whereas in 2026 we could have had fully European drones. I conclude, Madam President, Mr President, by saying that this is a bad purchase, a bad plane, that the costs will not be controlled at all. There was, however, an opportunity to try to have a European solution. This attempt was not put on the table. The government's defence minister and, behind him, the N-VA did not want a European solution, preferred an Atlantic, American solution. That had already been said several times. I deeply regret this because it is really not a betrayal, as some foreign media claim, but a very bad blow, a stabbing in European ambition, which has often been mentioned by the Prime Minister, but which has rarely been implemented. In my view, this European solution should have been tried, I repeat. But we preferred to seek legal advice to exclude one of Belgium's most important partners, one of the most ambitious European partners in any case. There's a proverb that says, "When you want to beat a dog, you always find the stick to beat it." I think it would have been better to keep in mind that this was a political ambition to meet today, not just a military capability. I see that there are thirty out of thirty defence experts out of thirty, with the respect I owe them, and we see how little this political ambition has been in the decision that the government is about to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u51	(...) the general officers, the senior officers, the officials of the administration who have kindly held the role that the government has given them. I'm kind of confused to see that, in short, the big mute was asked to play a parrot role at times, which was not what we expected. We wanted a political debate, but all the explanations that have been given to us are still useful in terms of information and understanding of a dossier. The debate was not there. I respect the work of the Military Procurement Committee. I am not a member – I am not allowed to sit – but I respect the work done by my colleagues. When they have delivered opinions on files that have again been presented to us, I can understand that they are somewhat exasperated to have to hear again what has already been discussed in this specialised committee. I came with a completely different concern. Mr Miller, I want to say right away that the question is not whether my position is pro French or not pro French. The question is what our concept of European defence is. This is an essential issue, it is an essential debate. It is clear that the construction of a European defence project begins with the development of European armaments. There is no military power that is being built if it does not develop its own weapons capabilities. This is the very concept of the United States, for the most part, of its weapons. Here, the government has made a choice – but can still stop if it wishes – to consider that the purchase of military equipment should be treated solely on the basis of a number of principles. While we have been reminded of the possibility of applying or not applying the law on public procurement, the government has not exploited what the European treaties offer as possibilities and has not had the political will to address this issue with a European focus, even though the legal instruments exist to do so. The question is not whether or not the French offer complies with the terms of reference of the RfGP. It is not necessary to be a great lawyer to know that, in fact, she did not respond to this notebook. I thank the lawyer who was able to benefit from the Belgian State's public procurement to come and give us a consultation. More fundamentally, the question is whether the current procedure can be stopped. If so, how can we motivate her? There, however, I have heard that this hypothesis cannot be legally decided as invalid from the beginning of the game. That's not true. It is not true to say that one cannot stop a procedure, especially since there are clauses of non-responsibility, if I have read the invitation to tender, in particular Article 8 of which Mr Hellings spoke. More fundamentally, there is the European Treaty. Indeed, a serious and strong motivation must be given to say that such a procedure is not being pursued. Indeed, it is an act subject to appeal, etc. Thank you for reminding us! But what can the motivation be? The reasons for this can be found in the European Treaties and in the famous Article 346, the former Article 296 of the previous Treaties: the essential security interests. It is interesting to read in this connection the interpretative communication given by the European Commission in its time on the application of Article 296, which was worded in the same terms as the current Article 346 of the Treaties in the field of defence procurement. It is a document of 7 December 2006 still in force. What do we read? I quote on pages 4 and 5 of this document: "Furthermore, the security interests of the Member States should also be considered from a European perspective". All terms have their interest. "They may vary, for example due to geographical or historical factors. However, European integration has led to a growing convergence of national interests among the Member States, and the development of the CFSP and ESDP illustrates that the same is increasingly true in the field of defence and security. In particular, Member States share the objective of developing a common defence equipment market and a competitive European industrial and technological base in the field of defence. It should take these considerations into account when considering whether the application of EU rules on public procurement, the aim of which is to encourage intra-European competition, would undermine the essential interests of their safety." This is very interesting because it means that, in the competition and equal treatment procedure, restrictive conditions may be imposed if one considers that the essential interests of the security and defence of a Member State of the European Union are concerned. But this also means, a fortiori, that a procedure can be stopped because it is considered that the essential security interests of the State justify it. That is what needs to be pointed out in legal terms. This can be the motivation to call for the closure of the current procedure and to undertake another political and legal reflection which could form part of the development of a strategic partnership with other European States. And I'm not referring specifically to France. She is not the only one who is likely to respond to such a will as I expose. This is a political choice. It is on this point that we have not heard the government. The latter has constantly told us that a procedure is under way, that it must be completed and that it can only be attributed. No. There is no legal obligation to award the contract. You still have the motivation to stop the procedure. Several arguments have been put forward in this regard. Irrespective of what the quality of the proposed equipment is and what the cost is, the fundamental question is: what is our conception of the essential interests of security and defence in relation to the European dimension? That is what we are asking you, what is at stake and what you do not want to answer, because you have an a priori. Indeed, you are refusing to act like other states – and I am not talking about the United States, whose method of work we know – that is, either to give priority to their national interests – like some European countries – or to defend a common vision in Europe. That's what I was asking you. To date, the government has refused to rethink its military procurement policy, taking into account this concept which the European Commission invites each Member State to reflect on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u52	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard a lot of speeches, which is good, but there are also many questions that I cannot address publicly, as I have just said. So I suggest that you ask the questions publicly, as you do now, and that I answer what I can answer publicly. Mr Hellings, I have heard your question very well, among other questions. I am prepared to give more information, but that must be done with respect for the ongoing procedure. That is to say, we can see that Parliament is not just a third, provided that there is strict secrecy, and we move to a closed-door meeting at some point without cameras. That's the proposal I'm making. Everyone can of course ask their questions, but I would not want Members to leave and say that they have learned nothing new today. That is not the case; we have already provided a great deal of additional information today. Of course, the Chamber takes care of its own work, but I am a requesting party to switch to a closed-door meeting at some point. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: Thank you for your proposal, Minister. I suggest that the three remaining speakers speak first and then we will discuss your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u53	Mr President, we had indeed been promised – I would add to the remarks just made by the minister – that we had been promised transparency. Instead, we are in front of an operation to drown the fish! or "smoking", where, for a quarter of an hour, we have cut ourselves behind confidentiality, defense secrecy, business secrecy, commercial secrecy, industrial secrecy. What has been presented to us today is totally inadequate. The Prime Minister had promised us that we would have information at a level equivalent to that of the government. If this is the government's level of information, I fear that the choice will be made to vogelpik, because the information received is not extraordinary! Finally, the basic question is whether this whole public procurement is not biased from the outset. It's my impression and obviously, I'm not the only one in this chamber. It's like recruiting. We want to recruit a person, in a so-called objective way, and we publish an offer of employment with the portrait-robot of the person, which has already been designated in catini. Of course, she's the one who's being held back! In this case, we feel like we're facing the same process. Therefore, Minister, what measures have been adopted in the ACCaP to prevent lobbyism that would be harmful to the procedure? How many contacts were there with the various stakeholders? Can we have a register, a cadastre of these contacts? Is there a pro-F-35 lobby in Defence? This is what we can conclude from the various statements, such as that of Luc Gennart, former commander of the Florennes Air Force Base, who had told the RTBF that "the F35 was very clearly the favorite of the army" or the statements of Fred Vansina, commander of the air force, who had said in De Standaard that "we needed the same plane as the Dutch and the Americans". In other words, the F35! We already have the impression that at the level of the army, the choice was made from the beginning. How could this have influenced the process that was supposed to be objective? The question of the extension of the F-16s also remains. The Prime Minister promised us in June that a new study would be carried out on the possibility of extending the F-16s. What is the status of this study? She suddenly disappeared from the field. I come to the inequality or inequality of the various offers, in terms of consultation. You note that three of the five initial candidates have disappeared: Boeing, Dassault and Saab. Why? The question still deserves to be asked. This is where we come to the fact that the specifications may have been biased itself. As a reminder, the then Minister of Defence in 2013, Mr. Pieter De Crem, had begun the procedure for the purchase of fighter aircraft. In 2014, he had confirmed this preference. These were subsequently confirmed as well. In the case of Boeing, can you confirm that this firm withdrew its offer in April 2017, with the message that it no longer saw any opportunity to compete in the context of true fair and impartial competition? If the army did not receive it, did the minister or others get it? Is there more information on this Boeing recrimination? We could say the same thing about Dassault. The French governments stressed that the competition had been made to favour the F-35. Have there been any official recriminations of France in this regard? Let me turn to the question of nuclear capability. We can ask ourselves the question. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said that this was not included in the terms of reference. That's the point! That's the problem! Is it normal for this invitation to tender to replace fighter jets without first clarifying the issue of nuclear capability? You say that you do not settle this, that you leave it in suspense. Can we honestly believe that this is pending, and that it will be settled after the aircraft have been purchased? Who is naive enough to believe that? Obviously, there's an unsaid one. The unsaid is that we want planes capable of using the nuclear weapons that are in Kleine-Brogel. That's why we need the F-35s! In cabinet notes, was this nuclear capability requested? Why did one of the candidates, the Saab Group, withdraw his offer? He explained that he did not want to engage operationally for such military missions. The issue of nuclear capability was therefore at the heart of its refusal, which indicates that there is a serious problem at this level. There is also the whole question of stealth. Can we confirm that the then Minister of Defence, Pieter De Crem, promised NATO in 2013 that Belgium would use ten aircraft for the SEAD (Deletion of enemy air defence) missions by 2025 with an explicit NATO requirement that they be stealth aircraft and that Belgium would have 54 fighter aircraft in the future? Can we confirm that? Can we also say, Mr Vandeput, that in 2017 you confirmed these promises to have planes that would fulfill these SEAD missions and stealth with a total of 45 aircraft? Are Belgian air forces in favour of these SEAD missions and the stealth of fighter aircraft? Who once took the decision to change the doctrine of our army to a doctrine of attack from the first days, which is not at all in line with our traditional doctrine? Did the army advise successive Defence Ministers on this matter? Mr. Minister of Defence, have you had any recommendations from the army at this level? Can we confirm these exchanges of e-mails between Mr Vansina and ACCaP's collaborator, Steven Lauwereys, where it is explicitly mentioned that all statements relating to stealth should be hidden? In fact, if there was a clear demand for stealth aircraft, it was clear that the choice would be for the F-35, since it was the only stealth aircraft. That goes without saying. It was therefore necessary to insinuate this without mentioning the word, without mentioning stealth as such. The specifications had to impose it without saying so. In the specifications, who selected the scenarios that actually favor the F-35 and on what basis? Why is there not the surveillance and management of airspace with air combat in the scenarios, whereas so far this is the most important task of the Belgian air forces? It has been the case for decades. Why is the direction of the defence strategy changed all of a sudden? Why are we choosing to simulate SEAD missions when the air force has never performed such tasks? I come to all the flaws of this F-35 device that we visibly want to favor. Have the expert analyses taken into account the technical flaws of the F-35? The U.S. Court of Auditors had 263 serious technical defects, and some sources put forward a much higher number. I didn't think that would be possible, but yes: 966 technical flaws. Do you confirm that the US Court of Auditors has indicated these various defects and has even specified that 180 of these defects cannot be resolved before the production of the F-35? Can you confirm that in all of these defects there are 13 Class 1 defects that can cause the aircraft to be destroyed and the pilot to die, fatal defects? As for the price: what operating costs were simulated for the F-35 in your analyses? Not just the purchase cost, but the cost for long-term maintenance. It is worth € 247 million instead of the 140 million announced. That still makes a total of 3.1 billion difference. It's not a small amount. It is a pity that the Finance Committee does not take part in this work. There is also the number, since we buy 34 aircraft, but it is planned to have 45. What of the 11 planes? Do we buy them extra to go from 34 to 45? What is the price of this? On the return effects, I'll be brief. I will, above all, ask you for an answer, not on the positive return effects, but on the negative return effects of these planes and the policy they underpin, that is to say, an interventionist policy of NATO, which pushes us more and more into military interventions around the world. Have the negative effects of this policy been calculated? The return effects of destruction, terrorism, refugees who come in thousands as a result of our interventions? Have these human and economic returns been calculated? I conclude with the minister's office's ties to Lockheed Martin. As I said earlier: the former Deputy Chief of Staff of the Minister, Simon Put, left Vandeput to go to Lockheed Martin, who is still the builder of the F-35 which is pointed here in a possible conflict of interest and in a manipulation of public procurement. The minister told us at the time that his former deputy chief of staff had never intervened on the F-16 file. Should we believe it on word? How did he get in touch with Lockheed Martin to finally become one of their collaborators? It would be interesting to know, if he did not intervene at all in the F-16 file, how he managed to change his job by becoming a collaborator of the American multinational that manufactures the F-35.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u54	Mr President, unlike my colleagues from the opposition, I shall begin with a positive point. It is good that the Minister himself realises that what we have been through here today does not meet the criteria of transparency. The Minister realizes that we have to do this in a different way. It's a good thing he's open to that. I also have other comments and questions, mainly to Colonel Van Pee. The presentation I have heard is the presentation of the formal aspects of the procedure. It takes place in the best of the worlds, one with a virginal purity far beyond that of the Bible. At some point there is a serene atmosphere, but that kite does not go on. Mr Van Pee, I am uniting myself with many flaws, I know that. One of them is that I have also acted repeatedly as an expert for a Parliamentary committee. I am probably the only Member here who has ever done so. So I know what it's like to end up in a theatre in which people feel partly abused. As a pro, I still had the advantage of refusing to come, something you can't do as a soldier. However, there is a very big difference between what I have seen you do today as an expert. You are here as an expert, not as a politician and what I have done as an expert. When I intervened, it was about the real world, not the illusory world you spoke of. In that real world, things have happened that you keep quiet about, that you don't say anything about. In your ideal world, these things don't occur. You're hiding behind the formal procedure. I can tell in the real world that there are a number of viruses in there that you are anxiously silent about. Some of these viruses were in Knack on 8 November, in an article by Mr Kelepouris. It says that there were interventions in advance, in 2013, when Mr De Crem was still in Defense. Then stealth was included in the NATO targets. This was confirmed in 2017. We can also see that our ambitions have been fantastic, as colleagues have already mentioned. We're even now carrying out commands in enemy airspace. It was easy for you to get rid of it by describing the ideal world of formal procedure. If we are to be very formal, we must not talk about the content. I find that very strange because those are viruses in your world. If what is in that article is true, the question arises as to who is imposing it. Nobody falls from the sky because the spokeswoman of the Minister of Defence refers to NATO. Of course, that's really weird. If this is true, it is difficult for me to share the conclusion of that article on knack.be. There has been no parliamentary debate on this issue. There has also been no debate on future missions. It seems that this is not necessary because there is an authority, NATO, to which reference can be made. There is a certain similarity with the social partners, because they also decide outside the government and Parliament. Apparently there is also a military partner, NATO, who decides matters outside the government and Parliament. If that's true, your notebook is tainted. I'd like to hear your reaction to that. What is your answer to that article which highlights a number of fundamental problems? I don't think you should have avoided this as an expert. The fact that you are avoiding this calls for certain ideas to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u55	Mr President, Mr Minister, the experts whom I would also like to thank for their interventions this afternoon, it is never easy to be the last speaker, knowing that many things have been said, repeated. However, a number of elements may not be "reappeared" as they should have been in the interest of the F-16 replacement file. I've heard a lot of things sometimes even a little vexing. Thus, there was talk of the "smoking" that we would have tried to make hover in this room. Let me say that it is somewhat regrettable to talk about smoking, knowing that, by definition, experts cannot be smokers. When we call on experts in the pharmaceutical field, they are people who know the field very well in order to be able to justify the real or the false, but that is not to say that they can all be suspected of not telling the truth. As far as I am concerned, I would like to refer to something else. I know it's always not right when we talk about it again. But who says smoke, says smoke. Today, we are trying to put in place procedures for making decisions that cannot be repugnant. In the Agusta-Dassault case, we can really talk about smoke because money has circulated. In the north of the country, we preferred to burn it. It's real smoke. In the south of the country, we preferred to blaze it. I would like to go back to what Mr. Van der Maelen, who, unfortunately, is no longer here. Mr. Van der Maelen said, as he is used to doing – when it is not in the press, it is in Parliament – that we have not learned anything today. But we learned everything today! I hope that my remarks will be brought back to him. We have learned that the Agusta-Dassault case will no longer exist because we have put in place a procedure that allows us, in full transparency, to say whether or not we can make a choice as to the replacement of our aircraft. In terms of transparency, since Mr. Van der Maelen referred to this principle which he is so committed to, I remember that at a committee meeting in June or May, after asking for transparency for the mails relating to the possible extension of the F-16s, I never received them, simply because they were faked. We tend to forget it too much. When some claim that nothing has been learned, it is obviously not true, since we have known since today that the procedures – and I would like to thank, of course, the Inspector of Finance on this subject, but also the author of the legal opinion on the French file... We are told that the French offer has not been taken into account. However, it has been made clear today that there has been no such thing. It was therefore, unfortunately, logical that it should not be examined. In the end, it was France itself – and it is regrettable – that got out of the game. I would like to be reminded as well, because some went so far as to support yesterday in the Committee on the Interior: "The RfGP is punctuated." What does that mean? This means that there would have been manipulation and that we dare to pretend that the dice are punctured. If we say so, then we have to provide evidence. I remember other commissions – whether they are commissions of inquiry or others – where a lot of rumours have been allowed to flow and imply a lot of things aimed at the people themselves, without ever being able to demonstrate them. In the meantime, evil was done! In this case, it is suggested that the RfGP is being rigged, while experts have provided us with decisive evidence that it was the opposite. I would like it to be recalled as well. Finally, I would like to point out that, according to everything we have heard today, we are only implementing a decision that was made in 2011 by the previous government, namely, the replacement of our aircraft. This was not only a security requirement, because we know what our pilots think of it, but there is a tendency to forget – and we have not yet talked about it – that NATO has always asked for a distribution of financial burdens, or even other burdens. It is true that investing in aircraft is also a way to participate. Thanks to our future purchases, we can show NATO that we remain potential high-flight allies – if you allow me this rapprochement. Why NATO? We also forget to say that NATO's headquarters are well located in Brussels, and that it has just been renovated. In NATO, 20,000 people work in Belgium. All of this must be taken into account in the new issues, and in the new negotiations we must have. I'd like to remind some of those who are saying today that they are going to beat the cards completely, to reset everything to zero. "We will see how this will happen in the future. We're not ready." Of course we're ready! We have to remember, because we tend to forget it. In any case, the population is not aware of this. Through the decisions that we are going to make, we will allow our country and its people to be protected through the air force, and we will also re-establish our armed forces that need them. This is an opportunity, or never, to do so, not only through the decisions that we are going to take, but also through the economic benefits that will take place for our companies, while respecting the legal framework and the European directives. That goes without saying! You dare say today that there can be no compensation! These are not compensations, they are economic returns. Dare to pretend otherwise, it's not quite the truth. I wouldn't want to be much longer. I wanted to bring some elements to light. I believe that the people also have the right to the truth. The truth is that we managed to defeat the system or trap we had previously fallen into. It was about seeing dirty money flowing through this kind of contract of the century. At least this time, the contract will have been settled in accordance with Art. Jean-Marc Delizée, president: Mr Thiéry, thank you. There are no more registered speakers. All the colleagues who wished to do so spoke. About half an hour ago, the minister suggested that we have a "doors closed" meeting to give us more information. We are going to submit to colleagues this proposal, which unfortunately comes a little late, given the organisation of the joint committee. First of all, we were told that we could not be given any information, and it was only around 7 p.m., after almost five hours of discussion, that we came with this proposal. I note that there are far fewer colleagues than at the beginning of the sitting. The organization of the commission was already a little surreal. This approach goes even further in improvisation. It is a pity that things could not have been planned otherwise from the start. What are colleagues' views on this proposal for an in camera meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u56	Mr President, I agree with you. That's what I asked for this morning at 10:00 a.m. and it was denied to me. I don't understand why it's possible at 7:15. I know we can't do anything, and we have to be able to clear our agenda. Personally, I've been holding up so far, but I see that a lot of colleagues are not here. I don't think that's reasonable. However, I very much welcome the idea and I think it can be done very quickly. But if the idea is to pretend, a few hours from the government's decision, by dropping some information, it does not find thanks to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u57	Madam President, the Minister's proposal is noble and good. However, we must also look at the procedure. We have received information here today, which we had already received most of. This has been consolidated. We have received a little more information about where we stand. However, it is the exclusive competence of the Council of Ministers to take a decision on this matter. The government must therefore first take a decision and then make its decision completely transparently to Members for inspection. If the government makes a decision tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, it can be organised in such a way that what must remain secret in certain darkrooms and what can be communicated transparently remains transparent. The important thing is that this is how it happens. If there are further points of discussion afterwards, they can still be discussed in a public or closed meeting. Now, however, we are at a stage where the government can take a decision in full power. Then we have to take up our control function. That can be perfectly arranged in the hours after the government has made its decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u58	Mr Dallemagne, you say that we refused to hold a closed meeting this morning, but, again, that is not true. We did say this morning that at that stage, so at that time, we did not wish to respond to your request that something be organized in parallel with the present committee meeting, which was already planned. Meanwhile, things evolved and more information is urgently requested. I hear from the Minister that he is prepared to respond. So I wouldn't just throw this off the table. As for the argument that some have already left... I'm really sorry about that. I also got a chance tonight to go to the VRT studio, to participate in the Terzaak broadcast, but I refused because this committee meeting was going on. Do we need to adjust the arrangements for our work for those who go to TV studios to make statements on certain matters that need to be done here? I hear from the Minister that he's willing to explain himself. Well, let's start in half an hour. We shall see which of those who are so keenly interested in this dossier can still be called up. However, at this time of day one can still be here in half an hour, even from far away, to listen to the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u59	Minister, I appreciate your demarche. I would like to emphasise that. Mr Vandenput, you say that the Council of Ministers must take only one award decision and that Parliament will then exercise its control. I would remind you that you are simply saying fake news: there is no rule in constitutional law that states that control can only be carried out a posteriori. It can also be applied perfectly a priori. You said that the government must decide and we will monitor it afterwards. You may not remember what you said, but I do. One can also do that control perfectly in advance, contrary to what you say. You are talking here about the code des lois imaginaires, but not about Belgian law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u60	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u61	Your proposal is to exercise control at a time when Parliament is powerless and the decision is final. You are proposing that Parliament should be left behind the facts. I didn't think that was the Minister's proposal. You propose that Parliament should be sidelined and left behind facts, nothing else, and that is why you want an ex post audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u62	You are not in the auditorium where you play professor, you are here in Parliament where the people are being listened to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u63	Why don't you come to the auditorium and maybe you'll know what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that we are normally here under the sign of transparency. That is how the Prime Minister appointed this joint commission. Here, I hear we want to go into camera. In camera is not, in itself, the very example of transparency. I can understand that some information may require in camera, although I believe it is being abused. My proposal is to continue to receive public responses. If, after these public replies, it is essential that evidence be provided in camera, then it should be provided in camera. But let us first focus on public information, because everyone, the general public, must be entitled to information, except in exceptional cases. Karolien Grosemans, Chairman: Minister Vandeput said at the start of his explanatory statement that he would be as transparent as possible within a certain legal margin.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u65	It's late. The possibility of being able to shed light, first in public and then in camera, on market and strategic considerations could have been expressed from the outset. We're not going to prolong the debate. I think we need to be able to answer the questions and if there are elements that need to be in camera, they can be concentrated at the end of the meeting. This is the absolute proof that this political decision is totally improvised since we are even improvising the closed session at the end of the committee when we have been meeting for five and a half hours. We are all tired, we must be able to move forward and make transparency. Minister, respond and if in camera is necessary for some technical or strategic elements, let us do it. Let's move on!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u66	My opinion is different. All day long, we heard our colleagues say that they had already heard all of this and that they knew these things. That's their right. Despite the difficulty of the exercise, the minister believes that he can provide answers to more specific and difficult questions, and I thank him for that. I have the impression that going straight to the lock-up would be an excellent thing. We debated, we reviewed all the files. That there is a part, I would not say improvisation, but a somewhat new character, I do not deny it, Mr Hellings, but I put it on the account of the good will of the government. He wants to put on the table all the possible elements that can be discussed in public. From the outset, the minister recalled that some elements of the response would call for in camera. I believe that in good experienced parliamentarians we have understood from the start that we would go to a meeting in camera. I am in favour of the minister's proposal. Karolien Grosemans, President: Colleagues, we are indeed still in an ongoing procedure. I think that when answers are given to certain very specific questions, we will go on slippery ground. The Minister will feel compelled to give very vague answers. That is why I propose that we continue this sitting behind closed doors, as I hear that there is a majority in favour of this. For technical reasons, I will have to suspend the sitting. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: If I may, ladies and gentlemen, we are in an unprecedented situation. There is a great deal of improvisation that I deplore in the organisation of all this. We are told that we are going to make transparency, that experts are going to come and give us explanations. We had presentations. As a result, some colleagues spoke. Some were satisfied, others were not. During the exchange of views, Members spoke. Some asked specific questions. Most of these questions can get a public answer to my knowledge. It is not all secret in what has been asked. Much of our work has been attended by the media. Of course, the more time, the fewer the number of people. However, it seems to me that there is a public part in the answers. And if there is a delta of information that would be secret – we know that some things cannot be disclosed – at that time, we can pronounce the in camera. But for the debate as planned today, it requires public replies in my opinion, then replies, and possibly some elements of secrecy. That is my view as chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u67	Mr President, I am largely in agreement with what you are proposing. I would like to make a concrete proposal that I will answer publicly what I can answer in a public meeting. Specific questions are asked about the qualities of this or that candidate. I cannot comment on this at this time in a public sitting, otherwise I would be damaging the procedure. These are mainly questions about comparisons, about whether this or that has been taken into account. That's information I can't legally give in a public meeting. Hence my proposal, which I have made from the outset, to give colleagues the opportunity to reorganise themselves and add a little more to it. But I am, of course, prepared to answer what I can publicly answer in the public assembly. Jean-Marc Delizée Chairman: Okay. So there will be a second phase. Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u68	First of all, with regard to Ms Fernandez Fernandez's questions, at the FPS Economy level, it is difficult to explain, without really explaining the results, how we worked or what the results are. This is a point on which I ask the representatives of the SPF Economy to respond in camera. Prices are fixed. That's clear. There's an investment price. There are investment budgets. There's an operating budget. Budgets are set until 2030. One thing I can say at the level of the U.S. Congress about publication and the famous $6.7 billion is something that the Americans must do to have the opportunity to enter into negotiations at the level of military equipment abroad. It's a limit amount. This does not mean anything at the level of the price or the expected prices. This is a budget ceiling where we can commit ourselves without returning to Congress. That is the meaning. Mr Bogaert, you have made a political comment about the fact that we are entering into a strategic partnership with the French in terms of land capacity, in particular the CAMO (Capacité Motorisée). That could be an interpretation, but of course that is not true. In 2016, following the publication of the Strategic Vision, we sent out a request for information to our strategic partner countries, which are in fact our neighbours together with a number of other countries. I want to know which countries they were right about. This has been well explained in the Army Procurement Committee. In any case, in 2016 we already found that the French were the partner with whom we could bring the project to a successful conclusion. That's how it went to the government. The Council of Ministers approved the project. I signed a letter of intent in 2017. We have entered into negotiations, Mr Dallemagne, and today we are at the end of the negotiations at CAMO level. And we're ready to sign the documents. You can read the rest, but I think I answered your question. It is certainly not a consolation prize for the French and is completely separate from the ACCaP story. Mr Vandenput, my only practice is to buy the best equipment at the best price. The best capacity, value for your money, has been why we launched the RfGP in this way. Mr Van der Maelen, who is currently shining through his absence, states that we have a different vision of transparency. I think we mainly have a difference of opinion on what is legally possible or not. I have always said in Parliament that I will be as transparent as possible within the rules that have been imposed on me. As regards the comments on pages 8 and 46 of the RfGP, I have two things to explain. First of all, stealth can't be found in that. Secondly, there are other technical possibilities to achieve the same objectives, but not with a device that is stealth by its shape. Colonel Van Pee will explain that much better than I will. I would also like to point out that if Mr Van der Maelen says that these are the decisive arguments, then he must look at the percentage of points allocated to those specific elements. That aspect certainly cannot be decisive. For further explanations, I refer to a sitting behind closed doors. Thirdly, the perception of Mr Van Hees and Mr Vuye of the NATO Defence Planning Process is very different. I will try to explain that very briefly. We are members of NATO. I realise that some parties in the half-hour think that we should not be members of NATO. That's their right. We are a Western European country that, bearing in mind our history over the last 100 years, has not had armed conflicts on its own soil for decades. Our membership of international organisations may have something to do with that, Mr Van Hees. I know you'd rather pay for another defense than ours. In this context, NATO partners actually agreed to grow to a spending level of 2% of gross domestic product in 2014, with a percentage for investment. It concerns the three c's:contributions, in which we are not bad, cash, in which we are terribly bad, as we are the penultimate of the class, and capacities, to which we are working again through the Strategic Vision. Regularly we are confronted with the NATO Defence Planning Process. That goes in a number of steps. In the first stage, there will be bilateral talks with NATO and NATO will ask for the capacity to be built, delivered and/or kept available. A partner may or may not like that, but whatever that is, the next round is a multilateral round, where all partners sit at the table and discuss each other's capabilities. The question is what attitude should we adopt as a host country for the EU, for NATO and for SHAPE, when everyone there together decides what each partner should do. Well, I can tell you that, as we have had such a bad report on our effective defence expenditure, we have remained calm in that meeting. This does not, of course, mean that we are then directly carrying out all the investments requested. The Defence Ministers meet together, but it is still up to the national authorities to invest in one or the other capacity, to build capacity or not. Given that background, we in the RfGP have asked us to do as much as possible what NATO expects us to do. For a piece, this means that we have gone along with it in the first line and we have therefore described it in this way. That too is international solidarity. Mr. Hellings, you're asking if the decision will be joint. Yes! With regard to comparison and total cost, I refer to the session in camera. Colonel Van Pee will tell you where we are today. As far as the Italian Court of Auditors is concerned, the big difference is that we buy off the shelf, which is completely different from someone who entered the proceedings from the beginning. This means that we have another price and we do not participate in the development benefits. It is therefore difficult to compare prices, but in any case the cash price we are going to pay will be considerably lower than that paid by some others. It is also the market that wants this. The Americans are from... etc. We'll see! Mr Dallemagne, in terms of the budget, is there a major risk? No! For each participant, the limits are well defined. In this regard, I refer to the session in camera. As far as drones are concerned, I think there is a misunderstanding. The idea is to enter the Eurodrone programme as early as 2025. But we will need drones earlier and the two systems that we intend to buy today and that will be available in 2021. We'll need it in the future. You are talking about collaboration at European level. In this connection, I refer you to what I said in the Military Procurement Committee, where I correctly stated that the British, the French and the Dutch are now working with the same systems. This is positive in the context of European collaboration. Mr Maingain, I have heard your statement inviting me to stop the procedure. It's a choice, but it's not mine. Mr Van Hees, for your questions on lobbying, I refer you to the oral and written questions that I have answered on many occasions. For the extension of the life of the F-16, I also refer to the meetings you have held here in Parliament, the minutes of which are quite clear. Especially, I'm sending you back to the closing session. I'll put it in Dutch. I gave a summary of what was said and presented the cost picture. In reply to Mr Van der Maelen's question, I invite him to read that report, because that is ultimately the report he has been asking for for so long. Maybe he should have stayed on the committee at the time. That was not possible at the time, however, and it is clearly impossible to do so again today. As far as Boeing is concerned, I have already answered a thousand times. So I repeat that we were never told that it would be because of the RfGP that this company had withdrawn. This is an internal issue in the United States. I mean, you like... I will say it in Dutch because this is important. Parliament has the right to speak freely. A Member of Parliament may say what he or she wants in this Chamber. However, you should be careful when you start making references to criminal offences that would have been committed by me, my staff or former employees. There's a limit to free speech. It could be said that the free speech sometimes ends with decency. With a little less decency, we can all live. However, if you believe that you can continue to express suspicions without providing any evidence, you should be careful. If you want to make an insinuation here and there, you can do it in politics. However, it is now the fourth or fifth time that you have named one of my former associates, without ever having met the person and without providing any evidence. However, we presented the external audit report in this Chamber, in this House, after this employee had left my cabinet. I will not let this happen forever. You may blame me with all the political blames you want, but if you want to accuse me of criminal offences, you have to come up with evidence. I believe this is the least I can ask. Mr. Vuye, you spoke to Colonel Van Pee. The colonel is not a politician. Actually, your question was addressed to me, too. I have to answer the question anyway. I refer to the answer I just gave about the NATO Defence Planning Process. You may or may not agree to this, but that is the procedure. In this context, I can only repeat that the Member States ultimately decide autonomously on their investments and the capacity they contribute. I thank Mr Thiéry for his contribution, even if he is no longer there. Jean-Marc Delizée, Chair: Thank you very much, Minister. In principle, in the exchange of views, there was a reply after the replies. Do colleagues want a reply at this stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u69	I will still respond to the minister's threats to me. He said, "I will not continue to accept this." I can only encourage you to be very careful. I don't know how to see it other than as threats. Your threats don't scare me, minister. I note that instead of brandishing threats, you would have done better to answer my question. How is it that one of your former employees is working at the F-35 manufacturer today? That's the question we can ask you! How did he get in touch with Lockheed Martin? How did that happen? In what way? By what meeting, etc.- Is that what you're saying? I didn't say or do anything more than find that he moved from your firm to the multinational Lockheed Martin. I'm asking you questions about this and you're not answering unless you threaten me. I can only conclude that you are uncomfortable in this case. Karolien Grosemans, Chairman: Since there are no replies, I suggest that we move on to the part behind closed doors as agreed earlier. We are taking a technical break because of the transition to a sitting behind closed doors. I would like to ask the members of the committee if the staff can remain present. Is everyone okay with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-24-54-commissie-ic990x.u70	As we do in other committees, if the Member is present, his staff may remain. However, in the absence of the Member of Parliament, the employee has no function. Karolien Grosemans, Chairman: You have a point. The staff can therefore remain if the Member is still present. A report will be produced, which will of course not be made public, and it will be available for inspection. Of course, the experts will also be present.
