ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u1	Madam President, Minister, animal rights organisation Animal Rights recently released images of an egg company in West Flanders. The company sells eggs, so to speak, but the conditions on the spot give a very different picture. Chickens are in closed cages with dead chickens between the live animals. I have three questions, Minister. Firstly, given the successive food safety and animal welfare crises, is it not urgently necessary to launch a task force with all relevant ministers at the various levels and services to develop structural solutions or reforms? Secondly, has the link between industrial livestock farming, public health and animal welfare already been discussed between the relevant ministers of the various governments? If so, what are the proposals and conclusions? Thirdly, do you believe that further development or growth of industrial livestock is best for animal welfare, food safety and the environment, or do you see alternatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Lambrecht, first of all I would like to remind you that animal welfare, although I am sensitive to it, falls within the exclusive competence of the regions. Consultation and cooperation between levels of government can, of course, bring added value. Bodies have already been set up in this respect. The Advisory Committee of the BFSA has regular consultations which are governed by various cooperation protocols between the different levels of government or the inter-ministerial conferences. I also have new information for you, Mrs Lambrecht. The BFSA proposes an improvement in the protocols. Contacts with the Regions have started. The question of the BFSA's cooperation with other federal or federated administrations will also be the subject of an in-depth analysis in the context of the second audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u3	Minister, when will we get the result of the audit? Can you give me a timing? On that basis, my questions may be answered a little more.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u4	I have already communicated the calendar in that regard. The audit will end during the summer, not earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u5	Minister, this question dates back to early December. In the meantime, votes at European level took place on 12 and 13 December on the proposal from the European Commission, followed by exchanges between the European Commission, the European Council and the European Parliament on the definition of endocrine disruptors in order to ban substances and replace them with substances that would not have these effects on metabolism. In my question, I asked you about the position that we consider too light, since it is only the proven substances that are taken into account by the European Commission, when we would have liked to have taken into account substances that are presumed to produce the same effects, thus allowing all of them to exit the market. I know that the question is out of date today, but we may still be interested in an up-to-date answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u6	Mrs Gerkens, this is a question that you tabled some time ago, but it remains relevant. Endocrine disruptors raise many legitimate points of attention. We must remain extremely attentive, as reflected in the Senate's last report on this issue. A threshold below which exposure would not cause any risk is strongly questioned. We know today. The authorities' attention to the effects of endocrine disruptors is already reflected in the facts. Thus, the concept of potency was not used in the development of the criteria for identifying an endocrine disruptor within the framework of biocidal and plant protection product legislation. Exposure 0 seems to me to be the preferred approach for substances identified as endocrine disruptors. Moreover, Belgium voted on 13 December 2017 in favour of the European Commission's proposal, which finally defines the criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors under plant protection legislation. Following the adoption of this text and once a plant protection product is identified by EFSA as an endocrine disruptor, we will continue to adopt an offensive position and support the withdrawal of these products. It is also in this spirit that I have referred the AFSCA Scientific Committee to study the potential harmfulness of the different forms of bisphenol and their alternative. It would be regrettable if substitution was more problematic than the initial situation. For reminding the AFSCA Scientific Committee a few days ago, I was told that it takes time, unfortunately. The report is expected to take place in the second half of the year, only. I have asked for a report that is as comprehensive as possible, and I will therefore have it within these deadlines. Thus, in cases where we lack data or studies, Member States and European agencies have the possibility of requiring further studies from notifiers. That is also to be noted. Finally, the fact that the criteria are based on the 2002 WHO definition makes it possible to ensure consistency with the REACH regulation, which already allows endocrine disruptors to be identified on the basis of the same definition. For Belgium, it is not only essential to have the identification criteria that apply horizontally for biocides and plant protection products, but also to ensure consistency with other legislation: REACH, cosmetics, the Water Framework Directive. So you and Parliament must be assured of this: at European level, we will remain extremely offensive and on the front lines of this dossier. On the other hand, I have learned that you continue to deal with the report of the Senate, which was voted unanimously by the House. Rather, I see this with a good eye and encourage Parliament to take up such an important issue as this one, and I hope that you will succeed in overcoming certain divisions that may have been in this chamber on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u7	Minister, thank you. This afternoon, we will try to work...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u8	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u9	That's in relation to what's been said by others other than you. This afternoon, our objective is indeed to overcome certain ambivalences or contradictions. Mr Minister, I agree with you that there is a need for a cross-cutting approach because, under REACH, studies have been carried out on bisphenol but in other sectors. These were not phytosanitary studies, but they included food containers. I no longer know whether it is France or Sweden which, under REACH, considered that the endocrine range should be studied for all uses. We have to get to this kind of position.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u10	Question No 22896 by Mrs Van Peel is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u11	Mr Minister, even though this question dates back to March and a number of other things have taken place in the meantime, it remains valid. On 28 February, you rejected a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Senesael on the gradual phasing out of the use of fertilizers in agriculture. The reason given by your cabinet was that you were already working on the recommendations. We all remember the fipronils scandal in the summer of 2017 and recently a report has been published by the Task Force on Systemic Pesticides, of which 30 biologists from several countries are part. That report was published in the scientific journal Environmental Science and Pollution Research and analyses 200 studies on neonicotinoids and their harmfulness to food safety. In these three recent cases, it is always about insecticides that would be harmful to food safety and to our health by extending it. According to scientists, there are currently sufficient safe alternatives that could replace the harmful insecticides in agriculture. Minister, is it not time to change the shoulder and invest more in alternative ways of agriculture? Do you have any plans in that direction? We would certainly welcome it. After you have taken note of the results of the scientific research, are you prepared to phase out the use of these harmful insecticides as soon as possible? What measures are you taking in this regard? Can you put a deadline on this? After all, in your reply to Mr Senesael's motion for a resolution, we only heard vaguely that you had plans in this direction and that you did not want to support the text for that reason. I therefore assume that this will be very short-term and would like to know how short-term that period will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u12	The results of the study mentioned in your question confirm the different findings, including with regard to the necessary transition that we will have to endure in our mode of production. I can assure you that the search for alternatives to the use of pesticides is a priority. To support this transition, we have ensured, within the framework of the federal reduction plan for pesticides, that the application for the marketing of biopesticides can be made through an accelerated procedure. Applicants will now receive additional administrative support. For example, they are accompanied during the complex procedure for admission. I have called for this measure because the supply of biopesticides on the market can be significantly increased compared to the other pesticides. Biopesticides will be alternatives that pose a lower risk, which will enable them to replace the current pesticides. As you know, on my initiative last Friday, at first reading, the Council of Ministers approved the ban on the marketing, sale and use of total but also selective pesticides. This is also an additional step towards greater use of biopesticides. Your second question concerning the systemic insecticides of the type of neonicotinoids also draws attention to certain difficulties in the search for alternatives. I have always stated that we are in favour of a trip out of the neonicotinoids, but with a phase out. Several slopes are currently being explored. This has already allowed to identify alternatives for most of the crops. Moreover, an opinion I have asked the Gembloux agricultural faculties has shown that no solutions have yet been found for the particular case of beet and witloof which are satisfactory, sustainable and environmentally friendly. That finding fully justifies the introduction of phasing-out. I would remind you that the beet and white-belly sectors account for 8 000 jobs. You can be sure that we will continue to take an offensive stance in the dossier. It goes without saying, for example, that the necessary delay for the development of alternatives will have to be as short as possible. Once there are both credible, in other words without risk to pollinating insects and users, and scientifically validated alternatives, I will do everything I can to ensure that they are implemented as soon as possible. As far as European regulation is concerned, the question of derogation must be put by the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u13	Minister, I know that you are paying attention to the problem. I also know that you have made the accelerated procedure on pesticides a priority. I also know the proposal you made last week. Let there be no doubt about that. A second matter on which I would like to leave no doubt is that we would not be concerned about 8 000 jobs. We are and very much so. That is precisely why I am convinced that offensive action must be taken and why I left my question, although it was a while ago. You're answering that you're acting offensively. At least you're doing better than your predecessor. However, the government must continue to invest, including in scientific research, so that we can move faster and not wait too much. I would therefore like to see the offensive you are making in connection with your policy much stronger. You must also press more strongly for Europe. I am convinced that much more can happen if we, as a government, invest in these things and want the research to progress. You've already done a number of things, but you can do much better. We really need to make a cover. I don't see that yet. The monitoring of scientific research and what is happening in Europe must be carried out in order to stimulate scientific research and to ensure that something happens in Europe by taking initiatives of its own. We will certainly come back to this, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u14	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, I will provide you with some additional information. As you said, I am particularly involved in this matter. You must know that the work is going on. In this sense, I have planned several meetings with industry and the agricultural sector to make a firm commitment to other solutions. It is not, as you will have understood, a question of maintaining a status quo or showing attentism. Everyone has to realize that we are changing times. This involves changes in our habits, behaviours and choices, including those of industry and agriculture. I want to help them as much as I can. That's why I'm trying to explore ways to fund alternatives. That is what I wanted to inform you about today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u15	Minister, it is better than it has been in the past, let us be quite clear. However, as you say, it must be about making other choices, about making that change. If you make it as strong as you are now telling us, we will be the first to applaud it. That is why I say that we will certainly come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u16	Mr Minister, it has recently come to our attention that products intended for animal feed, designed in France from genetically modified and unauthorised organisms, have been illegally distributed in several European countries, including Belgium. Have you been made aware of this situation? If so, what measures have been taken? Have such products been found? If so, were they destroyed? As a result of this case, do you believe that further steps should be taken to prevent the recurrence of such situations in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u17	Mr Flahaux, congratulations on your summer style of the day! This is a very serious subject. I confirm that I have been kept informed of the problem that you are talking about. Indeed, on 28 September 2017, the AFSCA was informed of the situation by the French authorities, via the European Early Warning System (EAS). AFSCA immediately conducted a survey of the Belgian operator concerned. She found feed containing unauthorised GMOs. The consignments of the feed concerned were blocked. We've been tracking the products. It was found that the feed in question was not intended to be placed on the European market. AFSCA, in this context, has taken the decision not to destroy the lots, taking into account that Article 12 of European Regulation 178/2002 (General Food Law) authorises, under certain conditions, the export to third countries of products which are not authorised in the European Union. In this sense, the consignments were released for export to third countries under the above conditions. Important additional element: the legal service of the European Commission is currently preparing an opinion on the interpretation of the concept of placing on the market. I am convinced that this will make it possible to clarify whether or not products intended for export, which are prohibited on the European market, can enter the intra-Community trade chain. In this context, we expect clarification from the European Commission's Legal Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answer. What already reassures me is that these products have not been used in the national territory or in the European Union. The question is whether they can be produced in a country of the European Union. Genetically modified organisms are known to contaminate neighbouring fields. In any case, it would be interesting to know what opinion had been sought. It is paradoxical that it is possible to produce products on European territory which are not allowed for consumption at home but which can be exported. If I dared to compare it, it was as if we were producing cocaine in our countries, that we could not consume at home but that we could export. I know I've forced the line a little!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u19	Minister, this question was drafted following the closure of an artisanal bakery, while other structures that posed a problem were not closed. I have interviewed small producers who have been subject to AFSCA sanctions and therefore have a series of questions about how the controls are carried out and the scope of the decisions taken by AFSCA. What are the remedies available when an AFSCA control results in a decision to close the place of operation? There is an appeal to the Council of State for annulment or suspension of the decision and recourse to a specific Ombudsman within the AFSCA. However, these remedies require legal action, which requires the intervention of a lawyer and the initiation of a fairly cumbersome procedure. Is there any possibility of suspensive appeal within the Agency? If not, could we think about it? When a decision to close is taken overnight, what are the cues to avoid the bankruptcy of these craft companies? In the particular case of the artisanal bakery, the inspection was carried out and the decision to close immediately was taken in the absence of the head of the undertaking. Is that normal? Is the resumption of activity subject to a new authorisation, based on a break in the continuity of the previous activity in the light of the new requirements of the AFSCA? Lastly, was it acceptable, in the case of sworn officials, to disseminate information, comments and assessments concerning a producer with whom there was a dispute? Shouldn't we rather respect some confidentiality and be ethical?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u20	Mrs Gerkens, I will give the shortest possible answer, probably very technical, but you had no less than ten technical questions in your question. I will try to answer as precisely as possible to the majority of them. Indeed, there is an initial right of internal administrative appeal to a board of appeal established within the Federal Agency for Food Chain Safety (AFSCA). The procedure before this Committee is defined by the Royal Decree of 16 January 2006, which lays down the procedures for approvals, authorisations and prior registrations issued by the AFSCA. Where the Agency finds non-conformities and considers that there are grounds for withdrawing an operator's authorisation or authorisation, it shall inform the operator of the reasons given, as well as the measures envisaged, by registered letter to the post or by letter delivered to the addressee with an acknowledgement of receipt. The operator shall then have a period of 15 days to make his objections known to the Agency by registered letter and, where appropriate, may request a hearing by the Agency and/or propose ways of improving in order to respond to the reasons given. This element is not neutral and is important. If the person objects, the local control unit concerned shall examine such objections and proposals for improvement and shall carry out a new check. The Agency shall inform the operator, by registered letter or by letter delivered to the consignee with an acknowledgement of receipt, of the result of this check. If the Agency considers that the establishment still does not meet the requirements for public health, animal health, animal welfare or plant protection, it shall then notify its decision to withdraw approval and/or the authorisations, by registered letter to the post office or by letter to the addressee with an acknowledgement of receipt, as it does each time. The operator then has five days to appeal the decision to a board of appeal set up by the Agency. It shall examine the objections received, the proposed improvements, the report of the local control unit and, where appropriate, shall hear the person concerned. The Commission shall deliver an opinion to the Minister or his delegate, who shall have fifteen days from the date of the session of the Board of Appeal, in order to take a final decision on the appeal. Sometimes the time given to the Minister after the Board of Appeal gave notice is much shorter. This is also the subject of a reflection on my part in the context of the reforms that we are considering. The issue of the Board of Appeal is at the centre of a number of considerations. There are areas for improvement to be achieved. The Minister shall make the final decision on the appeal, on the basis of the above-mentioned opinion, and shall notify the person concerned of the decision by registered letter. The technique is always the same: an action for suspension and/or annulment may still be brought against the Minister's final decision before the Council of State. Operators have already brought an action before the Court of First Instance by way of a summons to refer the matter to the Court of First Instance at short notice. A new track has therefore been opened. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as I have indicated, the functioning of the Appeals Board is the subject of an in-depth analysis in the context of the audits in order to see how it can evolve. To respond in a complementary way to other aspects of your question, there is a specific mediator within the AFSCA. But it can only be used if there is legal action. However, only the Council of State may suspend a decision. As is well known, the Conseil d'État is an administrative court, while the AFSCA Ombudsman deals with complaints from operators with a view to continuous improvement. Nothing therefore prevents an operator from lodging a complaint with the AFSCA Ombudsman after his recourse to the Conseil d'État or in the event that he is out of time. In addition, the appeal to the Board of Appeal in the context of a withdrawal or suspension of authorisation is suspensive. The appeal to the evaluation committee also. The appeal to the committee setting out the control measures for certain substances and residues in live animals and their products is also suspensive. That, Mrs Gerkens, I think I have answered your various questions as fully as possible. As far as the Visé file is concerned, I am prepared to provide you with further information on the use of Visé in the event of the absence of operators, in general and without going back to the particular problem that we have been dealing with in relation to Visé.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u21	My question was more general. If decisions, arrangements and controls are to be made, it is important to be able to put in place sufficient elements to ensure that those responsible are present when it is known that nothing can happen between the time the inspector arrives and the time the person in charge arrives. I note from your reply that the Board of Appeal, its functioning and its procedures are subject to evaluation and perhaps restructuring. I really think that we need to put in place mechanisms which, in the case of negative findings, allow reactions but which also facilitate adaptation and reaction, taking into account small structures. I know that it is in this context that you reflect on the evolutions in small structures and the consequences of a stoppage of activity even for fifteen days or a week since some are on the rope in their activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u22	Even in relation to the decision of the Board of Appeal, there is still the possibility for the Minister not to follow it in a number of cases. I think that today the AFSCA Board of Appeal does not give the defendant enough opportunities. I wish to work in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u23	It is therefore a matter that will have to be monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u24	Madam President, Minister, on 15 March 2018, the plenary session of the Chamber approved your draft law amending Articles 2 and 9b of the Act of 2 April 1965 on the taking of the aid granted by the OMCWs. During the discussions and the vote in the Health Committee and in the plenary, you stressed that you would hold a very broad consultation when drafting the royal decision implementing that bill and that you would work out that royal decision together with the stakeholders. Within the medical sector, there was a great deal of concern about the draft law. As you have assured us on several occasions, the purpose of the legislative changes is not to deter carers, but above all to prevent certain abuses. For this reason, the CD&V Group has called, firstly, for a prior check to be carried out instead of a retrospective check and, secondly, for a broad consultation with the various medical syndicates and civil society organisations working with people without papers to be carried out in the preparation of the Royal Decree. Only in this way can the concerns be heard from the sector and a royal decision can be drawn up that is supported by the whole sector. Mr Minister, what is the state of play in the consultations with doctors' organizations such as the Order of Medicine, BVAS, the Cartel, Domus Medica and Doctors of the World? What is the status of the consultation with the OMCWs? Did you also receive organizations for people without papers? What concerns have these organisations expressed? If you have not yet received these organisations, what is the timeline? How does the process of the joint elaboration of the Royal Decree proceed? What stage is the effect of the Royal Decree at this time? When can we expect the Royal Decree to be approved? Madam President, Minister, I hope I can stay here for the answer. I may be called upon to another committee to explain my own resolution. However, I am very interested in your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u25	Minister, I have an analogue question. As you know, like my party, Ecolo-Groen, I do not agree with the amendments you have made to the urgent medical aid procedures. But so be it, done business doesn't take a turn. Like my colleague Mr Van Hoof, I have questions about the development of the royal decree. You said that you would hold a very wide consultation and that you would work out this royal decision with all those involved, in the broadest sense of the word. There is indeed a great deal of concern in the sector. I have the following questions for you. Which organizations will you invite or have you already invited? In what timing? How will the consultation work? How will you concretely shape the royal decree? How will you fulfil your commitment to work out this royal decision with all those involved? In particular, what timing do you propose for drawing up and developing this royal decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u26	Madam Chair, Minister, my colleagues recalled the legislation passed in March 2018 and the issues at stake. At that time, I had denounced a lack of consultation because a whole series of elements had been highlighted by many actors on the ground. On the part of caregivers and health professionals, there were important concerns and, in spite of everything, you had argued in favour of a posteriori check rather than, unless urgent, a priori check. This is problematic because a posteriori check is likely to prevent medical and surgical care which is necessary, but not necessarily vital. Indeed, despite the name of the law, it is not only these indications that must be met. This is a risk because such care may not be carried out, under penalty, for providers to be punished a posteriori. With regard to the royal decrees, I had argued at length that there should be co-construction of these royal decrees and enforcement orders with the actors on the ground and health professionals. Where are we? Have these consultations been carried out or are they still under way? Who are you working with? Who was involved in these consultations? What progress has been made both on the agenda and on the outline of these royal decrees?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u27	Mrs Van Hoof, Mrs Dedry, Mrs Fonck, the federal government insists on maintaining the right to urgent medical attention. The action of the federal government from the beginning of the legislature also shows this. The amounts for this and the number of beneficiaries increased year after year. The number of beneficiaries increased by 8,9% and the budget by 27,31 % between 2014 and 2016. The new law includes administrative simplification measures, measures in line with the recommendations of the CCE and the reform MediPrima, and above all measures that respond to the demands of the sector, and thus the OMCWs, not only for the benefit of the actors in the field and the doctors but also, and above all, for the beneficiaries of urgent medical assistance. In addition to this important contribution, the law adopted by your assembly on March 15 also provided the necessary legal framework for the detection of possible abuses. This was drawn up with a view to fairness, the principle of which was approved at the second reading in committee, far beyond the majority. A number of members, including Mrs Van Hoof, underlined the importance of consulting the sector, in particular in order to develop the implementing measures of the law. Moreover, this had already been done during the preparation of the draft law. This was the result of contacts with the CPAS Federations, the Order of Physicians. It was important if not fundamental that the voluntary sector, which is legitimately and particularly sensitive to this issue, should also be consulted when developing implementing measures. To that end, even before the adoption of the bill in plenary session, the CPAS Federations, the College of Physicians and also Myria, the Federal Migration Centre, had already been consulted. These consultations continue as part of the development of the Royal Order. I therefore continue to hear and involve as many actors as possible. I am thinking in particular of the organization Médecins du Monde that my firm met. Mrs Van Hoof, also the most representative doctors syndicates, such as KARTEL with GBO, were consulted. These meetings provide an opportunity to hear the concerns of the community and medical community about the future monitoring procedure established by the Royal Decree. By making the law passed by the House enforceable, this royal decree will - I am convinced - help to strengthen urgent medical aid. I am confident that these consultations, which have yet to continue, will bring real added value to the drafting of the royal decree, but I will not impose a timetable for this. I can also tell you that we are really working to speed up the dialogue. However, the slow pace is not necessarily attributable to us. Indeed, we offer appointments to several organizations, but not all of them rush to meet us. I therefore wish to speed up the tempo, while not subtracting myself from some important meetings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u28	Minister, two brief points. You say that the sector was already involved in the preparation of the draft law itself. One denies that in all keys. You also say that you are consulting with a lot of important strongholds, which you have listed, but cannot put a timetable on them. That is what the sector is asking for. So I will be asking a follow-up question shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u29	Madam President, allow me to apologise to Mrs Van Hoof, who has been referred back to another committee. Minister, thank you for your answer, even though I confess that she has not taught me anything. Indeed, you repeat as a mantra what you have done before. Remember, however, that history has its rights. You didn't have a consultation. I take the example of health professionals, the College of Physicians, etc. They had to deliver own-initiative opinions because they had not been consulted at all. To date, they have not yet been heard. We will see in the acts whether or not you will take into account the constructive proposals they have put on the table. I repeat that a posteriori check does not make sense and is problematic, both for individuals who are particularly fragile and vulnerable and for health professionals as such. I'd like one last comment. You always talk only about urgent care. The title of the law is that, but not its content. I would point out that the content of the law is not only about health care as a vital emergency, but also about the necessary health care. This has nothing to do with it and it is up to the caregivers to determine them. Both are extremely important and yet extremely different.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u30	Ma'am, I'm pretty much in agreement with you. Perhaps urgent medical assistance does not necessarily bear his name. I think we agree on this. On the other hand, forgive me, but you're making a mistake. The College of Physicians has been consulted and heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u31	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u32	He was well heard. I think the meeting was quite constructive. I continue to work and make invitations so that the consultation is as broad and as concrete as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u33	Good if things change. Too bad it took so much battle for them to change. We will see the acts and content of the royal decrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u34	And if, on the occasion of a law containing various provisions to come, "emergency medical aid" were transformed into "necessary medical aid", it would be even better.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u35	Madam President, Minister, copper is an input used in all types of agriculture, including controlling fungal and bacterial diseases. Although copper is a relatively inexpensive and highly effective solution from this point of view, it is highly toxic to the environment and tends to accumulate in soils. Impacting fauna and flora, it can also be responsible for damage to human health. Minister, just as the authorization of glyphosate, recently expired, the approval of copper compounds expired on January 31. However, an extension of the approval until next January was voted in December 2017, allowing the European Commission to formulate a proposal on the future of copper by June 2018. We'll be there soon. Three schemes are envisaged: simple non-renewal of approval, conditional renewal or renewal with the possibility for Member States to legislate standards in terms of usage. In view of its harmful effects on health and the environment, will you plead for a non-renewal of approval? If not, what option will be defended by our country? How do you justify it? What steps have been taken to find viable alternatives to the use of this product?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u36	Madam Chair, Mr.Senesael, as we speak, as you have indicated, the authorization has been postponed until December 31, 2018. I have not confirmed that the vote will take place in June. On this file, the information provided to me is more in a different direction. This does not mean that the discussion should not be started. I note in the elements that have been raised by EFSA a number of contradictions that bother me. Why? Because the European Food Safety Authority published a notice in January 2018 in which it clearly identifies "high" risks in relation to mammals, birds, aquatic organisms and soil micro-organisms. In addition, the same report states that in terms of human risks to operators, workers, passers-by and residents, the study does not produce information that would indicate that residues would be present in sufficient quantities to constitute a danger to human health. However, this is not the case with respect to fauna and flora. I would like more information on this subject, but in view of the current situation, the reports that are produced are extremely paradoxical. I can therefore only activate the precautionary principle. The position I wish to take in this area should be quite offensive. There is a rather interesting Dutch study and the KUL Faculty of Bioengineering is preparing a publication on the impact of copper on soils, livestock and crops. I will be aware of this study to ensure that, by the time the vote is taken, this problem is not to be taken lightly with regard to fauna and flora. I therefore reserve my answer in the light of the additional information that has to be provided to me in this regard. However, we will not be shy about the issue of copper when the votes are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u37	Minister, thank you for your answer, of which I have three points. First of all, I will note that June is not a key date and therefore no immediate decision must be taken in this direction. I thank you for taking this issue into consideration as you are aware that copper can have an influence on both human health and the environment. It is therefore necessary to take a look at the studies to see what the Belgian position will be in this area. Finally, I note that the precautionary principle – which you confirm – will be activated, and I quote your terms, "in an offensive manner". I will allow myself to come back to this issue, which is of particular interest to me, in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u38	I shall now turn to my own oral question No. 24666 to be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u39	Madam President, Minister, this question dates back to the previous food crisis. The Latest News of 26 March 2018 mentioned farms and businesses in the food sector that increasingly have part of their samples examined in foreign laboratories. These laboratories are not obliged to report abnormalities to the BFSA. However, companies in whose steel non-conformitys are established are obliged to report this to the BFSA within 48 hours on penalty of suspension if they fail to do so. It is reported that many poultry farms blocked in the context of the fipronil crisis had their samples analysed at German laboratories. Their motivation appears to be mainly fear of new blockages. I have a lot of questions for you, Minister. Does the BFSA have an overview of the number of companies that have samples analysed by foreign laboratories? If so, how much is their share? How has that share evolved over the past five years? How many of the poultry farms blocked in the context of the fipronil crisis have had their samples analysed by Belgian laboratories? How many of the companies had a problem rebooting? How many of the blocked poultry farms were blocked again? How many companies in whose samples non-conformitys were identified by foreign laboratories have reported this to the BFSA within 48 hours? How many companies that did not do so were sanctioned by the BFSA? In what way do you intend to address this problem and ensure that companies still use domestic laboratories?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u40	Madam President, Minister, in the aftermath of the meat scandal at Veviba, more and more details were leaking about what is going on in the food sector. Lab testimonies show that food companies are increasingly having part of their samples examined by foreign laboratories in order to escape the control of the BFSA. A Belgian lab technician testified in Het Laatste Nieuws and De Morgen that they are not obliged to report deviations to the BFSA. For example, they can wipe small problems under the mat much easier. If there is something wrong with a portion of meat or eggs, European legislation requires the producer to report it to the BFSA within 48 hours. In our country this obligation has been extended to the Belgian laboratories. For example, the food agency can check whether the companies report any irregularities. According to the labs, it's not a marginal problem. Almost all chicken farms that started after the fipronil crisis had their analyses carried out in Germany. However, the food agency nuanced. "Even if Belgian companies send samples to a foreign lab and problems are identified there, that company is still obliged to report us," the spokesperson explained. Companies that don't stick to that risk prosecution. Mr Minister, what guarantees are there in the BFSA controls to oblige food companies to disclose the results of foreign lab inspections to the BFSA? What mechanisms ensure that the results are reported effectively? Do you think there are gaps in the double reporting system that the BFSA is defending? If so, how do you think these can be solved? On the basis of a report from the Food Agency, all the media reported fraud involving biomeat by the indisputed slaughterhouse in Bastenaken. However, according to its own reports, the control body Certisys has never established any fraud with the biolabel. It did, however, identify shortcomings in the operating procedures. At the latest committee meeting, the CEO of the BFSA reported that everything was reported to Certisys. This exchange of information seems to have led to a pv of the shortcomings at Veviba, which emerged a year and a half later from the fraud investigation. Certisys knew nothing about the pv, but according to BioForum it made a mosquito become an elephant. Can you confirm that the BFSA has never reported its suspicions and the CV to Certisys? Why were these not reported and why did the CEO of the BFSA say in committee that this would have happened?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u41	Minister, as my fellow Members have said, food companies can have their samples analysed by foreign laboratories. These labs are not obliged to report deviations to the BFSA and the companies involved thus escape, as the colleagues said, from the reporting light of the BFSA. The spokesperson of the BFSA said in a response that these labs do not have a notification but that the companies in question that have their samples examined by laboratories abroad are subject to the reporting obligation. Indeed, a lot of poultry farms appear to be afraid of being blocked again and therefore choose this shortcut. Minister, I have a lot of questions for you. First, how many samples were checked by domestic labs, and how many by foreign? I suppose you can give me those numbers on paper? Which labs reported most of the non-conformitys? How much on average per lab? Secondly, how many companies have their samples checked abroad? Do we have a view of the different sectors? Thirdly, how can you ensure that every company does indeed report the non-conformitys that have been analysed abroad to the BFSA? What mechanisms exist for this? Fourth, in February 2017 and in June 2017, at least three non-conformitys were identified within the Verbist group. It was sausage, hamburger meats and lamb meats. How do you explain that these non-conformitys were found but that the BFSA was not informed? Were these non-compliant products recalled at the time? Are you sure that the consumer has not eaten these products? Are you sure there was no threat to public health? When I asked the question, we had two scandals, but in the meantime a third, especially poultry company Smits, has added. Are you of the opinion that our current system, with the possibility to move abroad, is armed against fraudsters who deliberately play with our food safety? Finally, how will you close the meshes of the grid in our food safety system? What measures will you take to be better armed against food fraudsters? As regards the related question about the BFSA's reporting obligation, this is more of the same. The reporting obligation shall be bypassed. What do you think of that situation? What steps will you take at European level to address this?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u42	As you know, on 16 March 2018, the Council of Ministers instructed me, on my initiative, to instruct the Federal Internal Audit Service to carry out two external audits of the BFSA. The first will relate to the evaluation of the operation and internal structure of the BFSA, the second to the programming, planning, implementation and monitoring of the controls carried out by the BFSA. The issue of reporting obligations and of laboratories will certainly be addressed. Mrs Lijnen, the BFSA reminds me that it does not have figures on the number of companies that have its samples analysed by foreign laboratories. European law, in particular the principle of free competition, does not allow Belgian food chain companies to be forced to use Belgian laboratories. However, even if a Belgian company has to carry out an analysis abroad, it must comply with the obligation to notify the BFSA. If it does not, it will be subject to an administrative fine and non-payment of prosecution by the judiciary. In addition, Belgium is a pioneer in Europe when it comes to reporting to laboratories. This is an additional safety, on top of the reporting obligation for food chain businesses. For example, in 2017, the BFSA received approximately 1 000 notifications from around 700 companies or laboratories. Reporting is one of the pillars of the safety of the food chain. It is therefore essential that it be applied rigorously. The Royal Decree of 14 November 2003 on self-checking, reporting and traceability in the food chain will soon be amended accordingly. In the future, when a company will have the products analysed by a foreign laboratory, the company in question and the foreign laboratory concerned will have to establish in a contract that the confidentiality requirements do not apply to the BFSA. For example, in foreign laboratories, the agency will be able at any time to request the analysis results of companies suspected of fraud. As a result, Belgian companies will be less inclined to turn to laboratories abroad. Following the fipronil fraud, two poultry holdings were again blocked following non-compliant analysis results of samples taken under their own auto-control system. These are very slight overruns in the first eggs produced from the new production as a result of residual contamination in the stable. The two farms produced new compliant eggs after about ten days. The contaminated production never left the companies. Let us not forget that all blocked poultry farms were not released until after official sampling. Finally, the BFSA carried out a large fipronil monitoring on my initiative. A total of almost 400 samples were taken from all poultry holdings, all of them with satisfactory results. Ms Dedry, you draw particular attention to the fact that at the beginning of February and June 2017 three non-conformitys were identified by the Verbist Group. Two of the three non-conformitys concerned the presence of allergens. Those allergens were detected by the operator's auto-control system. Since afterwards it was found that the value was less than five milligrams per kilogram, the analyses had to be considered as compliant. As the installation had been certified as gluten-free since 1 February 2017 and the analyses in that context had been carried out, Veviba was not subject to the reporting obligation of the BFSA. In each of the three cases, these were problems which did not pose a direct and imminent threat to public health. Mrs Lambrecht reminded me that at the joint meeting of the Health and Business Commissions, on 21 March last, the BFSA stated that Certisys had contacted the Agency to obtain technical information. It said there was a suspicion of fraud in relation to the biolabel. It added that Certisys had informed the BFSA that an investigation was already under way and that a investigating judge had been appointed. As a result, the agency's staff member has drawn up a pv of information for the judicial authorities. It mentioned the elements that Certisys had itself identified. As I said in my introduction, in addition to the relationship between the BFSA and its partners, the judicial authorities and certification bodies will be subject to the audits, which will be completed during the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. The question is whether the KB will be sufficient. I think it's very good that the KB is being modified. This is a step in the right direction in order at least to be able to identify which companies will go to foreign laboratories in the future. I think it's very important to measure that. You say the KB is being modified. It will allow the BFSA to request analysis results at the time of occurrence. I assume that the BFSA will have all the information available in this way. You said in your introduction that there are no figures. I understand from this that the adaptation of this RB implies that in future there will be figures of all applications that will be made in the foreign laboratories, which is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u44	Minister, I hope you can reassure me, because I am not here for a moment. I follow Mrs Lijnen in her joy that you will ensure that there are figures, but you said that the BFSA does not have figures on the number of companies that send samples to foreign laboratories. I also think I have heard that there are administrative penalties and that prosecution by justice is possible. I don't understand that correlation. The BFSA has no figures but there are administrative fines. Should I assume that the system of administrative fines has never worked? Without figures, no one can be fined either. I would like to have that explained. Secondly, Minister, do we have to take into account in our holiday planning that we will be here again in August 2018 and I will be delighted to do so, but it is nevertheless important to know that we will be able to sit before a special committee on the audit or will you lift that committee to September or October 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u45	Madam President, Minister, I agree with the other Members that we now have no figures, although they are urgently needed. So you didn't bring me anything on all my questions about numbers. Secondly, I do understand that the royal decision you wish to make closes a back door, but also that it does not go so far as to require notification. I would also like clarification on this point. After all, it is only about the BFSA being able to request something in case of suspected fraud. However, that is only at that point in time, and so there is still a difference with the reporting obligation that exists, on the one hand, with the domestic labs and, on the other hand, with the foreign labs. That's not clear to me. Thirdly, you promised me the audit before the summer and before the summer recess. Now you're talking about "Summer pebbles." You will then come out with it later and we must therefore take time during the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u46	I would like to say a few words about an important element. Mrs Lambrecht, I have given you the figures that I currently have: in 2017, AFSCA received a thousand notifications from 700 different farms or laboratories. With regard to the distinction between notifications from foreign laboratories and those from Belgian laboratories, I am telling you that the Royal Decree will be adapted in order to have this distinction and notifications, including from foreign laboratories. It seems to me that this meets a bit the purpose of your approach. I have given you the figures that are available at the moment. Until now, the distinction has not been made. That is why I will adapt the decree in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u47	Minister, I did not actually receive any answers to my questions. Why do the administrative penalties exist if there are no figures? Should we reserve August in our agenda to get information about the audits?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u48	Mr. Secretary, you're clearer now. I have now heard you clearly say that the new royal decree will not only provide additional figures, but will also be required to do so. You didn't say that earlier. Now you're telling me. This seems to me to be an improvement. However, my question remains as to why the audit will not be completed on the date you set.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u49	I already told you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u50	Madam Chair, before I ask the question, I would like to ask the minister's availability. Indeed, these questions are two months old. My question No 24916, together with those of Mr Nollet and others, dates back to 11 April 2018. Questions really lose their relevance after a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u51	(...) So far, this was not the case...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u52	Madam President, you know that this situation is a little justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u53	Minister, my question, dated March 28, 2018, follows a controversy in the press following the revelation of a problematic career path between AFSCA management and the private sector. This is the case of Pierre Naassens, who held leadership positions at the AFSCA, before working as a consultant and lobbyist in the food sector, offering his services to the Verbist slaughterhouse in Izegem. As you yourself have agreed, this example should help us to reflect on the close relationship between the AFSCA and the sector it controls. This type of transfer is likely to raise the issue of the independence of the AFSCA and could undermine its credibility. What are the legal or ethical provisions governing the relationship between the supervisory body and the food sector? Are consulting missions authorized? If so, with which tags? Can you tell us how many of the Agency's inspectors or former inspectors now offer their services to the private sector? Finally, are you considering strengthening the rules governing these transfers and, if so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u54	Minister, I have an analogue question. It is about Mr. Naassens, an ex-top man from the BFSA who has been working as a consultant and lobbyist in the food and pharmaceutical sector for two years. It appears that he is not the only one, it is evident that former and retired inspectors of the agency provide their services to the private sector. Strictly legal is not to be expected, but given the experience of recent months, this raises a lot of questions about the interlinkage between the sector and the control body. Minister, do you believe that such revolving door careers are good for our food safety? Do you think this should be addressed? Will you do anything about this after the two or three recent food scandals? Why is that? Why is that? Are you in favour of stricter deontological rules and a mandatory cooling-off period for departing employees of the BFSA?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u55	Mr Senesael, Mrs Dedry, you know that I have already replied to these questions in plenary session on 29 March last. As you know, Mr Naassens, former Director-General ad interim of the BFSA, has been working as a consultant in the food and pharmaceutical sector for two years. Mr Naassens would have set up his consultancy company after he retired. First of all, we must remember that, in the course of their duties, all officials are subject to very strict rules on conflicts of interest and cumulation. Thus, during their career as public servants, they cannot be advisers to companies that can be monitored. Two royal decrees regulate the possible conflicts of interest of AFSCA agents: on the one hand, the Royal Decree of 2 October 1937 on the status of State agents and, on the other hand, the Royal Decree of 8 March 2004, which lays down the special conditions for the recruitment of statutory and contractual staff of the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain and organizes the service with a view to preventing conflicts of interest. A code of conduct and ethics is also signed by all supervisors and inspectors. In addition, PSAB staff are required to adhere to the general ethical framework for federal administrative public service employees (Circular 573). You were asking for numbers. I'll give you some. There are currently 40 inspectors-controllers who combine their duties with an external activity in full compliance with existing legislation, such as tourist guides or municipal councillors. I didn't go as far as asking for the color of the party they are in. Anyway and legitimately, I don't think I would have been answered. From a strictly legal point of view, the consultancy missions, as carried out today by Mr Naassens, are in accordance with the legislation in force. Indeed, the activities began after his retirement. That's what the law says. The AFSCA also indicates to me that I do not have an inspector-inspector currently performing consulting duties. I agree with you on one point: certain situations may raise questions not ethically but at least ethically. So I have a legitimate feeling that we can't stop at AFSCA. Such a problem could also involve ISI or AFCN collaborators. So it's beyond my competence, but I'm not running away. I have nevertheless contacted my colleague, the minister responsible for the public service, to raise his awareness. I asked him if any thought could be given to this. He told me that the question had to be resolved across all federal public sector agents. That will not prevent me from ensuring, in the course of the audits that are under way, that certain questions posed by parliamentarians are passed on to the auditors. I hope that one aspect of the functioning of the AFSCA will be analysed in this context and that, if necessary, they will give us the opportunity, in the context of the subsequent reforms, to adapt a number of operations in the light of the conclusions and recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u56	Madam President, my reply will be very brief, since I should have been in the Climate Committee since 12:30. Minister, thank you for your response. As a first step, I can satisfy myself. You have made the right difference between the question of legality and that of ethics. It is true that royal decrees solve a whole series of problems. You have understood that, in the case we are dealing with and concerned about, that of the AFSCA in particular and that encountered, the ethical rules must be adapted. I feel your willingness to go further in this regard, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u57	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I think it is a good thing that you include the mentioned pain point as one of the issues to be examined during the audit. I will follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-29-54-commissie-ic906x.u58	We are going to stop our work here, while specifying that the attached questions Nos 24822 and 24835 and 25273 are transformed into written questions.
