ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u1	I welcome the speakers who will present the Be-Gen project today. An integral and concise report of this exchange of views will be made. We do not therefore need to designate a rapporteur. First the speakers are given the floor, then there is a possibility for the committee members to ask questions. The first speaker is Mr Renard of the National Institute of Criminal and Criminology (NICC), coordinator of the Be-Gen project and promoter. You have the floor, Mr Renard.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u2	Madam President, as coordinator of the Be-Gen project, I would like first of all to thank the committee for having listened to the presentation of these results. I'll start right away. We have planned a presentation of three stakeholders following each other. This research focuses on an operational, strategic and policy evaluation of the use of national DNA databases. This project is led by three partners, namely the NCIC as coordinator of the project, the University of Ghent and the Vrije Universiteit Brussel. It is funding that we have received from the Scientific Policy, BELSPO, for a period of four years. We are just finishing this research, which was coupled with a European project on the international exchange of DNA data. I briefly recall the context and the situation in Belgium with regard to DNA. The first uses of DNA date back to the late 1980s and especially the 1990s. A first law was passed in 1999. Its main elements are: to organize the contradiction in the use of DNA; to organize the constraint and to define in which cases the constraint may intervene when there is a refusal to take samples by a person; to ensure the quality of the analyses carried out by establishing identical quality standards for all laboratories; to ensure some respect and the protection of privacy, the latter having been at the heart of all discussions. This law was reformed in 2011. The main objectives were to ensure greater efficiency, simplification of procedures, to organize some sort of economy, because, as you all know, DNA is relatively expensive, and to organize, insert and legally make possible international exchanges on DNA profiles. These various legislations have made it possible to set up several national data banks. First of all, a trace data bank. All traces collected at the scene of crimes and offences are, in principle, collected in a single data bank, when they are the subject of DNA analysis. Secondly, a database of persons convicted of certain types of offences. In addition, not a database of suspects, but the registration of certain suspects. There are also two more recent legal developments: a missing persons data bank and a data bank of those involved, which is not yet in force. Our work on these issues focused on three main areas. The first part deals more specifically with an operational assessment of DNA. In other words, how is DNA used until profiles are recorded in databases? It was therefore necessary to see, in the field, what the conditions are for the sampling, the difficulties encountered, what are the channels followed by DNA since the collection, through the requisition of the magistrate, the DNA analysis laboratory, and the sending to the data banks, how the data banks themselves are used, what is the perception of persons registered as convicted. We have also worked specifically, for five months, on the questions of the implementation of the Stakeholders database, which poses a lot of problems. The law has been passed, but there are still many conditions to be defined. The second component, which was assumed by the University of Ghent, was to assess the strategic interest of DNA. Today, DNA is managed in completely separate databases of the police services, therefore, within the NCIC. It has been realized that the net separation that is organized may also hinder the use of DNA potential. The purpose of this component was therefore to observe what is ultimately the value or the added value of sharing genetic data and police information. I leave it to my colleague in Ghent to present this part. Finally, the final part concerns the study of the more legal and political questions which aim, through an analysis essentially of comparative law, to look at the questions still raised by the evolution of DNA today and to see how a number of European countries respond to the issues and questions that this raises today. Madam President, I leave the floor to my colleague so that she can continue with the presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u3	Good morning, I'm Sabine De Moor. I have researched the strategic implications of DNA databases within the Be-Genproject. Although that part focuses on strategic implications, i.e. on criminological research, our research has also made very important links with police research. There are three main benefits of the DNA database and more precisely the trace database for both police and criminological research. First, the DNA database also contains unidentified offenders in the form of trace profiles collected at crime scenes. Secondly, several crimes can be linked to the same offender when his DNA is found at different crime scenes. Thirdly, different offenders can be linked to the same fact when their DNA profile is found at the same crime scene. Based on the trace profiles of the DNA database, one can therefore study the behaviour of unknown offenders, which one cannot do with police data in itself. The benefits of the DNA database become even clearer when we link that data to police data, which you can see illustrated on the slide. Those are the results of a network analysis I performed on the basis of data from the ANG and the DNA database. On the top left you can see networks of crimes, based only on police data and bottom right those data were supplemented with DNA data. We can immediately see that by linking the data of the two databases on the same facts or over the same period of time more networks can be made visible on the one hand and larger networks on the other. The first illustration summarises briefly what we have found through our research. I'll give you another illustration of our research findings. It is a fictional example, but it shows the most important results in one slide. On the top line, you will see eight facts presented in different arrondissements and in different years. In each case, you can also see whether this is about known or unknown perpetrators. On the second line you will see the result of combining police and DNA data. By conducting a network analysis, we can connect known and unknown offenders. We can also link facts from several years, from different arrondissements. This gives us a more global picture than just on the basis of police data. In any case, it is a great advantage to be able to bring together the data that not only more data becomes visible, but that other data, a different picture of the crimes, is also given. Those are, in a nutshell, the results of the investigation. I'm coming to the recommendation. It seems quite logical from the above, namely: a link between DNA data and police data. The link I made in the investigation does not happen in practice. We've done a theoretical thinking exercise, based on anonymous data, just to be clear. So I couldn't identify any of the facts or offenders. However, it shows that, if this link is possible in practice, there are more possibilities for the police to increase the degree of clarification. On the one hand, we see more networks becoming visible, more active in more judicial districts and more spread over time than we can only see on the basis of police data. That's important for police investigation. It also shows that police investigations may need to be more targeted and wider than the judicial district in which the police are often only operational. On the other hand, linking unknown offenders to known offenders can certainly contribute to their identification. It is always easier to try to identify unidentified offenders, if one can establish links with known offenders. That's an important advantage for the police. As I said, this link is not being applied in practice. After all, legal provisions separate the two databases from each other. The DNA database is under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department, the police database under the Home Office. Those two are separated and that makes it difficult to make the clutch. From our investigation team, it is not necessary for police officers to have full access to DNA data. I also had no access to genetic information for my research and there is no need for police officers to have access to it. The availability of tactical, operational information would be a major added value for police research. We can link it to prints. This is also biometric information and far less stringent legal regulations apply. Here we can ask ourselves why this can be done with fingerprints and not with police data. For the sake of clarity, the link is not made, even if the restrictions are less there. With this I have summarised the strategic part of the Be-Gen project.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am Caroline Stappers and have studied the operational aspects of the DNA database in our research on the basis of a dossier study. We've been studying files that depicted the entire DNA process from the moment a DNA trace was collected to the moment it reached the database. Throughout this process there is a certain failure. Not all collected traces are analyzed, not all analysed traces lead to a DNA profile, not all DNA profiles enter the database and certainly not all registered profiles match up in that database. I cannot go into all the results of the causes of these failures, but there are a number of observations I would like to explain. The first observation is in line with what Mrs De Moor has just said. It's very interesting to link data together. However, the way that DNA process is currently going makes that link very difficult. Each actor involved in the process works with his own system, his own databases and his own computer system. There is very little contact between the different actors. The police collects traces and records them in its LIS database and prepares a report sent to the magistrate and entered the physical file. The magistrate draws up his claim on paper, which is sent to the lab. The lab will send its results back to the magistrate on paper and the DNA database will also send a report on the comparison. All these documents must then be entered in the physical file. However, we have noticed that this is not always the case. Sometimes the records of the lab or the results of the DNA database are missing. The question can then be asked whether the magistrate is aware of these results? We also see in those files that nothing is done with the DNA traces. We therefore assume that the magistrate has not received the information. The whole administrative process makes sure that DNA cannot be used optimally. In addition, there is very little feedback between the different actors. They are often unaware of what is being done with their work. For example, the police lab does not receive feedback on what traces are analysed, unless agreed at a district level. As a result, one cannot improve his methods or his work and the use of DNA cannot be optimized. Furthermore, everything is organized at a district level, so everyone in his district works by case, but there is very little communication between the districts. If there are certain clusters where different files can be linked, then it is very difficult to put them together because each has its own computer system and its own way of working and so communication is difficult. Mrs De Moor has just shown that. So there is room for improvement here. A second observation we have made relates more to the second stage of the investigation, namely the decision to analyse traces. The database can only produce results, depending on what is put in it. It is very important to think carefully about which tracks are being analyzed or not. There is no general policy in Belgium on when to analyse traces or not. It's up to each arrondissement to decide. The study shows that very few districts have a policy in this area. In fact, it is more a decision of an individual magistrate who then focuses very hard on his file and on what he needs and who does less thinking about the broader whole and any links that can be made in a database between files and the results that can result from it. In addition, the quality of a track is considered and much less the origin of a track. I will explain this on the basis of two examples. In the first example, when a vehicle is stolen, a number of tracks are collected in the recovered vehicle. They are then analyzed because it is identified by the police as a good trace or a trace that is likely to have a DNA profile. We have seen in a number of files that there are two profiles from these tracks, one on the steering wheel, from man X and one on the gear shift, from man Y. So there are two people. It could be said that there were two perpetrators, but then one would have sent and the other would have switched, which would be striking. There's a very good chance that one of the two tracks came from the owner of the vehicle, which means the victim. That is not excluded at any time. Those traces are automatically transferred to a DNA database and stored there, with the result that there may be traces of victims in the database. They won't get a match and they can't go on with it. In a second example of an attempted manslaughter, this became even clearer. A woman was attacked, she was wounded and she was bleeding. Blood traces were collected that were analysed and resulted in a profile of female origin. However, the woman had stated that she had been attacked by a man. This trace was also automatically transmitted to the DNA database. We haven't been able to verify at any time that this trace was consistent with the victim. Once again, a trace of a victim has entered the database. Of course, that doesn't match. If I calculate the matchrate, that number is rather low, but if you do not insert correct profiles into the database, you will not get the right results either. More awareness about which traces need to be analysed, both in terms of quality and origin of the rail system, but also with a view to a broader analysis, as Mrs De Moor has explained, and not only in terms of the dossier, seems to me to be appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u5	A few more elements before concluding. I would just like to highlight a number of developments that are taking place. These are evolutions, scientific and technical progress, which can have a significant impact on DNA practices today. You see here one of the many sites on which you are proposed to send your DNA so that you can trace the genealogy of your family and know from which region you originate, etc. Of course, we can be pleased with the progress, with all the applications that can be drawn from it. These are mostly commercial applications. But they allowed, for example, the U.S. police to resolve the Golden State killer's case. That was in April 2018, only a few months ago. The police were able to identify this person simply by using one of the many traces she had left, by having it recorded at one of these sites. Seeing the results, she was able to easily identify which family she came from. You immediately see the kind of drifts that this can bring, if there is not a sufficiently precise framework for such developments. We do not say that we must be more strict. We simply say that we must be aware of the developments under way and that, quite certainly, the current legal framework, gradually, is being overcome by these developments or in any case, has not envisaged these new situations. The question must therefore be asked, on a regular basis, of the changes to be adopted in our legislation in the light of these technical developments or these new social practices. The mechanism that has been used to identify through family search is already admissible in some neighbouring countries. This is not the case in Belgium. Finally, we find that these practices, on the margins of the judicial system, are far more privacy-invasive than what is now used in judicial matters. In judicial matters, we have been extremely strict in guiding the use of DNA. We have even more strictly framed the data banks themselves, which are encoded. There is no name directly related to the registered profiles. Only the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, as a national DNA unit, has the link between the profiles and the persons concerned. So we can really question this fact: is it not sometimes the wrong target by constantly adding protections when there is judicial use, when on the purely private or commercial side things explode completely? The scope of the framework must therefore most certainly be reconsidered. The second example I can give is the evolution of the progressive constitution of genetic portraits-robots. You may know that as part of the Brabant Killers file, France was asked to draw up a genetic portrait-robot based on a trace available in this file. It's not my idea to decide on this case. The question to be asked is what is in our legislation the essential criterion that we have adopted as the criterion of proportionality for the use of DNA, that is, non-coding DNA. Thanks to scientific developments, we know today that we are losing this criterion of protection since we realize that many of the non-coding elements of this DNA are also, in a way, coding. It will therefore be necessary to find a new criterion of proportionality and to face the scientific reality. She's getting different. We're gonna have to adapt to it. You can see here a portrait as it is today feasible and realized by the French National Police in Lyon. For the moment, genetic portrait-robot is allowed in the Netherlands. It is almost the only country in the world that allows it as such. It is tolerated in many other countries: France, the United Kingdom, Spain, Sweden, Poland, the United States. But it is still banned in Belgium and Germany where discussions are under way. This reflects the burning interest of these highly evolving materials. Madam Chair, I will conclude with a few final recommendations. Here, we just gave some examples. We've done four years of research. A large number of elements have been studied, but not all of them can be presented. However, a few broad lines can be drawn from this research. It is time to address a comprehensive and integrated approach to biometric issues in particular. One can no longer speak of DNA without thinking about fingerprints, for which a law is in preparation, other dimensions or sharing of information. This should not be done without a guarantee but should be considered in an integrated manner. This must of course be a guarantee-conscious approach, but we must also not mistarget ourselves. DNA is highly regulated by law. I have given you an example of a current use of DNA which, on the other hand, is completely deregulated and which, on the other hand, deserves to be examined under the legislator's magnifying glass. This approach needs to be considered in the light of current developments. Many examples have not been given to you on this point. I can quote you Rapid DNA, which is a way to realize the DNA profile of a suspect, a witness or a victim. This can be done very quickly: you take the DNA, you put it in the machine and, an hour later, you have the profile. For the moment, Belgian legislation does not allow the use of this method, since an approved laboratory is required. What do we do from these developments? Unlike us, some of our neighbours are using Rapid DNA. We must be able to anticipate these developments and reflect on them in depth. So far, in Belgium, we have remained in an identification DNA, aimed at identifying someone directly. Increasingly, however, we realize that the potential of DNA makes it possible to direct the investigation, and not only to identify directly. We must therefore, of course, reflect on these new aims, remaining in a pragmatic and realistic approach and maintaining some confidence in judicial actors. Perhaps more coordinated beacons are needed in order to standardize our country's practices. We hope that these results will open up a public debate in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u6	I now give the floor to the members of the committee. Any questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u7	Madam President, I would like to thank the speakers for their clear explanation. I just have one question. In the grounds it appeared that magistrates are working on an island today as it were. On the penultimate slide, I see that there needs to be a more coordinated approach. How do you see this coordination? Does that mean that the magistrates need to be steered, trained, taught more knowledge? Or, in your view, should there be more regulation, or a debrief with criteria on how things should be dealt with? How do you see the coordination? Where should coordination come from, from below or from above? How does one do the best? For the rest, it was very clear and this is my only question for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u8	Madam President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their comments. I'd already gone over the documents. I have a question on an issue that has not yet been addressed. In the newspapers we sometimes read reports about matches in the exchange of DNA data with abroad. In June, for example, I read a message stating that after the exchange of data with Spain, 471 matches or identifications were possible. Last year, exchanges with the Netherlands, France, Germany and Luxembourg would have resulted in 6 260 names. Sweden has also been mentioned in the exchange of data. How many countries and which, besides the countries I mentioned, do there exist agreements or cooperation? Are the results of such exchanges indeed so positive? The exchange results in possible matches, but then the investigation must be continued by the investigators or the prosecutors. Do you have a look at the results of the further investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the floor to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u10	Thank you very much for these two questions. The first question, Mrs De Wit, is not obvious. There is no simple solution. There is certainly a lack of training and knowledge, but you know as well as I do that, on the whole – and this worries us – both on the police side and on the judiciary side, there is a tendency to reduce training times. The role that can be given to a better knowledge of the more technical elements of surveys is necessarily reduced. This is a real concern in terms of training. Is training sufficient? Certainly not. The College of Attorneys General, when we introduced the project four years ago, requested more precise or clearer criteria to be provided to magistrates, so as to know in which case an analysis should be requested and what results can be made. This work is still to be done. Research has not made it possible to identify all the possible criteria, but we already have a number of them. We will continue our work to help define these policies and coordination at the political level. It may also be necessary to pay attention to other recent tools as well as older modes of operation. Judges who have been confronted with investigations with technical elements have always relied heavily on police services for advice on what to do. It is certainly the members of the technical and scientific police laboratories who are best able to assist in this lighting of the magistrate. In addition, in recent years, there has been a forensic counseling service available within NCIC to support magistrates in the investigative strategies to be put in place when there are technical elements in the file and in how to use and interpret the results. We have so many tools, but they may not be known enough. Maybe there are transmission belts that should be better. Feedback between work stages could be improved. We often hear the forensic experts doing the analyses tell us that they may not necessarily have the right information at the outset to properly target what needed to be analyzed. What information should we give to those who analyze before the analysis? When the results are there, did the analysis give anything? There, technical and scientific police officers, very often, have sampling practices. They are strongly discussed, documented and defined, but do they still have a feedback today on the results to know whether in case of sampling from a mirror, for example, it is the right way or not? There is certainly still a lack of feedback. There is therefore a whole range of tools or elements that could improve the overall system. These are the elements that I would bring in the immediate future. If my colleagues do not have others, I will move on to the second question. In relation to the question by Mr. Van Hecke on the number of matches, I can say that figures are obviously available. This morning I took up a table from the European Network of Forensic Science Institutes (ENFSI), which is a European platform that contains the figures from all the data banks in each of the ENFSI member countries. We can see that, in the end, our small country is not so bad in terms of the performance of the data bank. This is a sort of performance measurement that is established for each country. For Belgium, we're at 0.2. We don't have to blush because Holland is 0.23 like Germany. On the other hand, France is at 0.05. It is very interesting to be able to compare the profitability of the data banks between countries and compare the results in terms of matches. All this also includes international trade. I will come back to your specific question. What does the French case show? This shows that France has a policy that records as many people as possible. One realizes that its database is ultimately very important but that it is full of duplicates and triplons that engulf the database. They themselves in France are beginning to say that it becomes complicated to manage such a database because there are too many background noises and too many profiles that are not useful. England has experienced the same. In the light of the experience of countries that have recorded a great deal, it is understood that it is not useful to have, for example, a universal data bank because we will find ourselves with so many results that we will not even be able to interpret or use them anymore. Therefore, staying focused on populations which, in fact, essentially function in a logic of recidivism is much more useful than going to register everyone. As far as international comparisons are concerned, I hear what you are saying. In general, figures are launched to compare with other countries when the first comparisons between Belgium and another country are started. It is the Treaty of Prüm that is gradually establishing itself and allowing for trade between these countries. The first time ours exchanged with Spain, we suddenly found ourselves faced with many positive comparisons. What do we do with it? At this point, it is difficult for us to answer it completely. The Be-Gen project was developed in support of a European project. With Caroline Sappers, we conducted several surveys in some boroughs to try to see how we can use international comparisons, so the Treaty of Prüm. Three years ago, we found that, for a large number of boroughs, matches existed, most of which were communicated to magistrates. However, at that time, they did not yet know exactly what to do with these data, so that several cabinets were filled with files with positive elements from international trade, waiting to see what could be done with them – all because there was no directive on priorities, the nature of the facts concerned, their number and their possible geographical proximity. Obviously, reactions may vary depending on these elements. Since all research involves choices, we have not been able to renew this survey in the boroughs, as we would have wanted. We could have seen if it was now followed much more automatically. That is certainly the case. We received some echoes, but without being able to encrypt it all by going back to the boroughs. I don't know if that answers your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u11	I would also like to add something, just as far as the first question is concerned. The second question has already been answered by Mr Renard and I do not have all the data on it either. The first question has already been answered, but I would like to add the following. Magistrates work on their own. What about the training? I agree with what the honourable Member has said, but on one or two points I think I can add. Of course it's about knowing and using. That has already been said, but I would nevertheless like to stress the fact that we have been able to see that in the various research areas, both the part in Ghent and the part that has happened in the NICC, that the policy and ultimately the direction is to be informed, one must know it and one must have an insight into it............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ One must know what one is going to do. The available resources should be deployed in a structured and policy-based manner. I believe that there is still a long way to go in this respect. We have seen that there are great differences........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It has been discussed, but it is very important to note that there are still considerable differences in this area. One could try to achieve some uniformity in policy or at least make a number of agreements. This could lead to a more uniform approach to the data base. When one looks at the filling of that DNA database, one finds that it is very different depending on the arrondissement. In our part of the research we have also tried to carry out analyses by arrondissement. This showed that one district was better able to carry out those analyses than the other. Mrs Stappers has just explained that both databases together give a different picture. One could also only do research in the database. This is also a research finding for some arrondissements, which appears to be an excellent database to carry out strategic analyses and network analyses. It is a database that is at least as good as the police database, but it can provide other data on unprecedented criminals, but it is not yet about perpetrators, but about trace elements that could lead to new cases. So I would say that one thing is linked to another. If policies are pursued there and the people on the ground are informed about them, a great deal can be done about them. The research has also shown that a great deal of new things can be done both together and separately, including within the current framework. Its current potential could still be significantly expanded. The next step has already been mentioned: if you put things together, then that's also the point of the investigation. So is DNA, in addition to the fact that it's specific, something special? It certainly is, but is it so special that one has to do it completely differently or that one has to place much larger bulkheads between what is possible? Fingerprints are of course not quite comparable to DNA, but a bit, they are also biomedical data. Whether a fingerprint is found at the scene of the crime or a DNA sample that can also be linked to a single person, it is in itself other things, but also partly similar things, while we are dealing with them quite differently today. If we had to do the same analysis with fingerprints, it would have been much easier, also legally in practice. Mr Renard has said it very explicitly: it has really been an eye-opener for me to do this research. If we put things next to each other and look at what is happening, then we will come up with new questions and we will have to dare to look at a number of things, without questioning the fundamental rights and privacy of individuals or making major gaps in them. My belief is that this is not the case, that one can look at it and link things much more closely, but without fundamentally compromising the protection of the privacy of those concerned. That is the thinking exercise that we have experienced partly on the basis of research.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u12	Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u13	Madam President, I would like to thank the speakers for the answers. It was interesting what was told about the international comparison in terms of effectiveness of our system, although I do not quite understand what the mentioned 0.22 or 0.23 means. Of course, I'm just a lawyer. However, the figures are clear. The lesson that can be drawn from this is the following. First of all, some people sometimes say that it would be better to immediately record the DNA of each born child in the database. After listening to your explanation, there are good arguments to say that this is actually not very useful. Can you share this conclusion? After all, this is something that will appear once in a while. Secondly, what concerns me in the answer is that magistrates do not know what to do with the incoming matches. You're talking about three years ago when there were no instructions. Do you know whether there are clear or clearer instructions for the prosecutors or investigators today on what to do with the matches? After all, there are a lot more coming in than three years ago. If we set up such a system, whether it is about matches in the interior or abroad, but the parquets do not know what to do with the results and they remain in a drawer, then the question is whether it makes sense to set up such a system. That surprises me and worries me as well. Is there any evolution, or is the situation still the same as it was three years ago today? Is there a difference between the arrondissements or is this a finding that applies to all the arrondissements of the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u14	The files I studied weren't specifically selected for international matches, but they were included with an international match. Today they will be better followed. In the meantime, standard forms have been drawn up, in different languages, which should simply be completed, with the specific traces on which information is sought. So that problem is solved, I guess. That is why the dossiers I have studied have been followed up. The question was whether this would lead to solving the case. Not always, it's also often about a match between tracks, where abroad provides information. In the case of thefts, it is very common to say that there was a theft in a house with them and in Belgium too. That doesn't give much more information to solve the case. I've also had records of a match with a person. Those people are gonna get evicted. They are often not known in Belgium. They will then be evicted internationally and then it will be waiting for them to be met somewhere. However, I believe that today is certainly a better response than three years ago. I cannot say whether there are really differences between arrondissements, because we have not selected data specifically on the international matches. In the arrondissements we have studied, I did notice that the magistrates are inclined to respond and that they are always asking for information. With these standard forms, this is now going quite smoothly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u15	I'd like to nuance a little bit. Of course, I hear your astonishment at these cabinets filled with files that no longer followed. We had nevertheless identified that this was not just the fact, and here, I want to be very clear, that the magistrates lacked information. This was partly the case, but it was also sometimes the fact that the countries concerned did not follow at the level of exchange between magistrates. France was, in particular, a country where things were extremely complicated. The administrative path was absolutely delusional for the magistrate to be able to answer to his Belgian colleague on correspondence. It wasn't just a Belgian responsibility. It was a responsibility that was often shared with the countries that started. Now, it is true that this start-up phase is behind us and the follow-up of the files is now much better than before. It was indeed seen in the more recent dossiers that Caroline Stappers studied.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-21-54-commissie-ic1002x.u16	If there are no more questions, we can end our meeting. I should like to thank the speakers very much for their clear statements.
