ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u1	Mr President, Minister, according to the press, the SNCB's proposed management contract would provide for the SNCB to examine the possibility for the Eurostar to stop at the Antwerp-Central railway station during its journey between Amsterdam and London. This possibility should be analysed within six months of the conclusion of the management contract. Such a project was already on the table in 2013, when the Eurostar line was extended from Brussels to Amsterdam. It was finally abandoned three years later because it would have proved unprofitable and, above all, too expensive. The arrival of the high-speed train would require a thorough renovation of the station, with separate check-in counters, digital scanners and separate docks. Since the abandonment of this project, the VLM airline, which was connecting Antwerp to London, has ceased operations. As competition on this route is reduced, a Eurostar Antwerp-London route could attract more passengers and improve its profitability. Minister, is the study of a Eurostar stopover in Antwerp under discussion under the SNCB management contract? Under what conditions could such a stop be put in place? Could you consider continuing this project if the study felt that it would probably not be cost-effective enough? If so, what costs would the State and SNCB be willing to pay for this judgment? Who – between the state, the SNCB, the city of Antwerp, Eurostar or other – will have to cover the fixed costs at the station required by the launch of this connection? What was the estimated cost in 2013? Should compensation be granted to Eurostar in case of deficit transactions? Would this project be qualified to benefit from funds included in the budget article entitled "Contribution for the additional inland transport of passengers by high-speed trains"? Is an equivalent study planned for the recovery of Thalys on the Walloon dorsal? Why is this affair not reopened? Finally, do you see a link between Eurostar's Antwerp-London project and the question of Thalys Wallon?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that Eurostar is a private railway undertaking which takes its decisions, in particular those concerning stops, in a completely autonomous way based on its analysis of potentials, financial risks and other elements. Eurostar operates in the liberalised international rail traffic market with all its constraints and obligations. As far as the management contract is concerned, I will not rule on material published in the press until these management contracts are the subject of a government agreement. In addition, in due course, these management contracts will be presented to the House as required by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u3	Minister, thank you. Whenever there are issues such as these, in connection with leaks related to management contracts, you obviously cannot say more. However, it seems to me that this management contract absolutely must be presented to the House so that we can deconstruct it and have a global vision together. I will remain attentive to different elements and to the evolution of the idea of a possible Thalys Wallon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u4	Mr President, Minister, on 10 October 2018, the Belgian Official Journal published the law of 2 September 2018 amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 laying down general rules on the police of road traffic and the use of public roads as regards the introduction of school streets. In accordance with Article 22l of the Road Code governing traffic in school streets introduced by that law, the public road in school streets is reserved for pedestrians and cyclists and only drivers with motor vehicles living in the street or whose garage is located in the street, as well as priority vehicles and vehicles licensed by the road manager have access to the school street. This new provision raises two problems. Firstly, according to this new provision, only pedestrians and cyclists are allowed access to such a school street, while three-wheel bicycles are officially included in the bicycles. In other words, baking bikes are not allowed in school streets. Secondly, cities such as Bruges, which are already experimenting with the concept of school street and were pioneers in that area, are prohibited from driving motorised traffic in school streets. At the beginning and end of the school day, the school street is dropped off for motorised traffic for half an hour. Through traffic is then only possible on foot or by bike. Residents from the street are allowed to drive out during that period, but not enter. The new article 22undecies of the Road Code allows pedestrian traffic of residents and garage owners, which does not improve safety and creates confusion on the ground. The goal of a school street is to create a safe school environment. Since the majority of children are dropped off at the same time or picked up at the school, this can create chaotic situations. Many parents think it is dangerous to let their child come by bike or on foot between all those cars and therefore choose to take their children to school by car. Mr Minister, the new law that resists baking bicycles in school streets and allows motorised traffic of residents and garage owners to enter the country is failing its purpose. This history shows once again that it is not always wise to make changes to the Road Code directly through Parliament, although it may be expected that the majority Members of Parliament have done so in close consultation with your cabinet. Fortunately, the law which provides for a provision allowing the King to lift, supplement, amend or replace the provisions of this law. Do you recognize the problems identified? How can and will you remedy this? What solution do you propose to cities such as Bruges that want to ban all motorised traffic in school streets, pending a change in the Road Code?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware of the access problem for three-wheeled baking bikes. The traffic regulations do not define what a bike is. The traffic regulations make a systematic difference between cyclists and drivers of bicycles. This is particularly important because of the different widths of these vehicles. The term cyclists is always included in the traffic regulations as drivers of two-wheeled bicycles, while the term drivers of bicycles is used to refer to drivers of bicycles in general, irrespective of the number of wheels. To my mind, there is no reason to deny bicycles access to play and school streets. This is also provided for in the draft revision of the Road Code. In order to remedy this situation, I recently asked the authors of the law introducing the school street to submit a new bill. It suffices to replace the word "cyclists" with the words "cyclists of bicycles." As far as your third question is concerned, banning residents and garage owners from entering a school street goes a little far. This would mean that these people would no longer have access to their homes during large parts of the day. Therefore, for my services, it does not seem appropriate to introduce such a ban by general rule. That point can be further evaluated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u6	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Do I understand correctly that someone who drives a baking bike on a school street won't be vandalized? Do I also understand that by changing the term from cyclists to drivers of bicycles everything will be resolved, but that this must be done through modification of the Road Code? If so, when can we expect this revision of the Road Code? Is there any possibility of a bang-up? What is the timing for reviewing the Road Code? I also have a comment for the people of your cabinet who advise you. You tell me that they do not think a ban is appropriate because the people concerned could not drive to their homes for a very long time, but in Bruges we have school streets where this is only the case for half an hour in the morning and half an hour in the evening. It does not have to be an insurmountable problem to ask people to make schoolchildren's safety a priority for two half-hours a day. I would therefore urge you to reconsider your cabinet, because you are getting rid of it very easily by saying that people are being held hostage and cannot go to their homes for a very long time. Half an hour in the morning and half an hour in the evening is not a very long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u7	Mrs Lambrecht, your first question must be addressed to the Minister of the Interior, because she is about the police, but for the new Road Code I want to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u8	Debates of the European Parliament 27413 by Mrs Lijnen and 27414 by Mrs de Coster-Bauchau will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u9	Mr Minister, my question dates back to 18 July. Today she seems very topical. In September, a new stop was opened in Chaudfontaine. The total investment for the opening was 1.15 million euros. On 8 June the new stops in Ougrée and Seraing were also put into service. The opening of these stations was set out in SNCB's 2016 Transport Plan. Seraing and Ougrée are opened on the freight line 125a, which means that additional trains are needed to carry passengers. The decision would aim to increase the offer for travellers. The new trains would also facilitate the rides for students to their campuses in Liège. The investment costs for the opening of the two stations were EUR 1.25 million and the annual operating costs would go to EUR million. Minister, I have long been in favour of opening a new exit stop in Haasrode, because there are new campuses there and because the East Brabants train network is oversaturated. In Leuven alone there are about 30 000 travellers per day, in Flemish Brabant there are 90 000 travellers. In the province of Liège, the figure is only half, 45 000 passengers. In the province of Flemish Brabant there are 65 stops, in Liège 60. That seems to me to be quite unbalanced. Despite the much higher number of passengers there is only a limited difference in the number of stops. I think we can talk about an oversaturation of the Flemish-Brabant train network. A possible solution for the too limited train supply in Flemish Brabant, more specifically East Brabant, is the opening of a station in Haasrode. There is an enormous number of students who have to find their way to the Haasrode research park every day. However, this recently received a negative opinion from SNCB because the opening of a station in Haasrode would be loss-making and would have a cannibalising effect on other means of movement and other stations. It is a good thing to invest in an increase in the offer in the province of Liège to facilitate travel for students, but this need is absolutely also in East Brabant. The number of daily travellers, especially for students, is much higher. Firstly, can you give more transparency about the decision to open stops in Chaudfontaine and on a freight line in Seraing and Ougrée? Secondly, the passage of students seemed to be an important factor. Doesn't this factor also play at a possible opening of the station in Haasrode? Thirdly, is there no undersupply in East Brabant, given the far greater number of travellers than in the region of Liège? Fourthly, it is indicated that the opening of a station in Haasrode would be loss-making. Is this not the case at the opening of the stations in Chaudfontaine, Ougrée and Seraing? Can you provide us with a cost-benefit analysis? Is the same cost-benefit analysis and financial balance available for the possible opening of a station in Haasrode?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that certain elements have led her to open a stop in Seraing. In particular, it concerns traffic congestion in the city and the fact that it has improved mobility. The journey time is 10 minutes by train compared to 45 minutes by bus or car. In Ougrée, the future park and ride of 1 000 places will provide a solution to the shortage of park and ride in the Liège suburb and access to ULG, the University of Liège. This could relieve the city. Less buses 48 are needed. Chaudfontaine concerns traffic congestion between Chaudfontaine and Liège and the future unloading station as part of the future CHB connection. There is no channeling effect as these stations offer 100 000 citizens the opportunity to take the train. These citizens used to use the car and the bus in the first place. As far as the balance sheet is concerned, it is too early to draw it up because we do not yet have the necessary distance. All this is part of the AnGeLiC file in which both in Ghent and in Antwerp, Liège and Charleroi are invested in the suburb railway. You make the comparison with the industrial site Haasrode, built in the early 1970s, on the basis of road access, motorways E40 and E314. The concentration of education on that site is recent. The industrial site is located four kilometres from the centre of Leuven and is served by the busy city network of De Lijn and the station of Leuven. Both by bus and by bike, the industrial park can be reached from the city centre or from the station within 15 to 20 minutes. SNCB informs me that it is always considering the potential in the context of possible future developments in the transport plan. That is also the case for East Brabant.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u11	Minister, allow me to say that I am not convinced by your reply. The same arguments could apply to the Haasrode research park as to Seraing and Ougrée, where thousands of students and thousands of workers also have to go every day. The Tiensesteenweg between Leuven and Tienen is known for its traffic congestion from morning to evening, making it difficult for cyclists to maneuver. So there is a great demand for a exit stop in Haasrode. Not only the city council of Leuven is asking for it, but also the surrounding municipalities, in order to reduce congestion from, for example, Tienen, where they are also in favour of the construction of a park-and-ride zone. It certainly fits in with a vision of the future to include Haasrode as a possible exit stop, as there are traffic jams on that campus day in a day and it is no longer justified to maneuver between them by bike. The argument that there is more need for a stop in one place than on the other is not convincing enough in my view. So, Minister, I would ask you to set up an extra boarding point, because the potential is certainly present in Haasrode.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u12	Minister, on May 18, 2018, the Railway Safety and Interoperability Service (SSICF) officially granted a new safety approval to Infrabel. This approval is valid from 22 May 2018 to 21 May 2023. However, it is now subject to penalizing restrictions. Until now and in the case of heavy work, operations could be carried out on an out-of-service track, while allowing traffic on the second track. Each train crossing was supervised by a strict procedure to ensure free passage on this second track. This involved the presence of an officer in the field with a specific role. In contact with the signal booth by radio or mobile telephone, the agent was responsible for ensuring free access to passenger or cargo convoys. This procedure can no longer be applied. The consequences of this decision are extremely heavy for lnfrabel. For the duration of the work, the complete decommissioning of the tracks is therefore required. This obligation now applies for the entire duration of operations where there is a potential risk of encroachment by heavy equipment on the track adjacent to the road where the work is carried out. On some lines, lnfrabel decided to extend the night work in order to carry out indispensable works. These new requirements therefore involve the cancellation of the last trains. However, important work on the RER will soon be started on the Brussels-Charleroi and Brussels-Namur routes. I note that it is already no longer possible to buy a train ticket on the Internet for these lines and time zones as early as December. Minister, will the work on the RER on axes 161 and 124 involve an extension of night work and the cancellation of the last and/or first trains? What is the use of trains potentially affected by these cancellations between the different stopping points of their journey? Are there other alternatives to the extension of night work to compensate for the new conditions of approval? Will these trains be replaced by buses? What would be the travel time between each stop? What would be the difference with the current train journey time? Could the potentially cancelled links to Charleroi be covered by line 96-117? How long would it take to travel on this route? The night trains leave the next day. What would be the impact of the last trip on the return journey? What about the first trains in the morning? What are the reasons for the new conditions for the new safety approval of lnfrabel? Why were they not accompanied by a transitional period?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u13	Dear colleague, with regard to your question on the RER work on axes 161 and 124, Namur and Charleroi, I would like to inform you that in the coming weeks, Infrabel will launch some 15 projects to modernise and extend the infrastructure. It's very important. We want the RER. The launch of some of this work on the ground reflects the federal government's ambition to invest in rail mobility and get benefits for rail users as quickly as possible. The new phase of the so-called axis 3 modernization on the section between Arlon and Libramont and the four-lane upgrade between Waterloo and Braine Alliance on 124 is the result of this will. These are firm contractual commitments made by the federal government, the Regions and Infrabel. In order to respect the nature and timing of the commitments set out in cooperation agreements, there is a strong desire to conduct these projects at a sustained pace. Therefore, in order to minimise the impact on traffic, in particular on passengers, Infrabel favours night and weekend work in these large-scale construction sites, even if the costs are higher. The organisation of night work implies that the decommissioning of the tracks slightly interferes with the end of the evening. However, on line 161, no train is affected by this measure. Indeed, the SNCB informs me that the seasonal schedules which will apply on 9 December 2018 do not provide for the abolition of trains on line 161 between Brussels and Namur. However, on line 124 Brussels-Nivelles, the last two S trains from Brussels to Nivelles, the S 1994, departure from Brussels-Midi at 23.23, and the Nivelles-Charleroi S 1995, departure from Brussels-Midi at 00.23, are limited to Brussels-Midi instead of Nivelles and Charleroi respectively. These trains currently operate omnibus services between Brussels-Midi and Nivelles, Charleroi for train S 1995. They will be diverted via lines 96 and 117, thus maintaining an offer on the Luttre-Charleroi-Sud section from Brussels. The non-allocation of these paths is therefore well within the framework of the resumption of RER work. It is not related to the issue of additional security measures related to the S 460 procedure. Following the freezing of RER work in previous years, successive transport plans had reduced the commissioning time during the nights from five hours thirty to three hours thirty, and made it impossible to schedule commitments for the work of the RER. To the extent that all trains go to their depot, the service of the first morning trains should not be assigned on either of the two lines in question. The slightly anticipated interruption of traffic will allow technical crews a working range of approximately six hours, i.e. five hours of actual work, instead of eight hours of normal service. Although penalizing Infrabel, these provisions allow for this work to be carried out by respecting the fixed timing and limiting the impact on customers, since they take place outside the peak hours of the morning and evening. It should also be noted that Infrabel plans and organises its various railway works in a thorough manner and consults in a structured manner on this matter with the railway undertakings. Each construction site has a balanced consultation between the manager and the railway undertakings in order to always find the best solution for both passenger and freight trains. With regard to your question about the use of these trains, this averages around 100 to 130 passengers. With regard to the proposed solution for the extension of night work, it is noted that railway work generally consists of a succession of operations. Most of the time, it is impossible to overlap these operations, since the time required for each operation is difficult to compress. As a result, the implementation of larger human resources is often not likely to significantly shorten the duration of the work. I would also like to point out that SNCB does not envisage replacing its trains with buses, given the very high costs that this alternative would generate for journey times that would become very long, since buses should serve all stations with routes quite far from the lines. Finally, I would like to reassure you that this measure will have no impact on the first trains in the morning, since these trains will return to Charleroi in the evening via a diverted route.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u14	Minister, thank you for these detailed explanations. I am reassured to hear that there will be no impact on the morning train and, if I understand correctly, the impact on the evening train will be very limited. This only concerns the last train. You have made us aware of the number of Infrabel construction sites. It is clear that we want the RSP and that we need to build up the means to achieve it as quickly as possible. Care must also be taken to minimize the impact on other users. To hear you, this impact seems very limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u15	Mrs Goffinet, I speak well in terms of passengers. I'm putting myself in the place of travelers. I know it's a constraint, but it's important to know that if we don't do this, the working range would go from five hours to two and a half hours. This would double the duration of the project, which would be unacceptable. The choice was therefore made to work at night, at weekends, with longer working ranges but therefore shorter deadlines and an acceleration compared to other planned projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u16	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u17	Mr President, Minister, an article published on October 24 on the website of lardennais.fr suggests that our French friends would not have abandoned the track of the reopening of the Givet-Dinant line. As you know, this line crosses the entire municipality of Hastière and has been out of service for many years. Infrastructure was abandoned without maintenance or destroyed. Many level crossings and bridges have been removed. And what about the maintenance of the roads themselves? Everything suggests that, on the Belgian side, this line will never be reopened. As you also know, a bike path between the village of Waulsort and the city of Dinant should be established in the course of next year. Minister, can you confirm this information? If so, what would be the timetable? What would be the cost of this work, given that the line, level crossings, wharves and bridges are currently impassable? In addition, the line was used by a steam train and no electrical structure exists. At the time, a study had concluded that a cohabitation was possible between the bike path and the railway. If the reopening of the line were to occur, how would you ensure this good cohabitation? Would it be a line simply linking Givet-Dinant-Givet? If so, what about Hastière? Are there any judgments planned in this municipality?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u18	Mr President, dear colleague, Line 154 is one of the abandoned lines coveted by the Walloon Region as part of its Ravel project. SNCB informed me that the Wallonia Public Service (SPW) had asked for the necessary plans to be able to take over this line. These are being implemented. With regard to a possible reopening of the line, Infrabel tells me that the line was shut down in 1989. A feasibility study for reopening was carried out in 2003-2004 at the initiative of the Champagne-Ardennes region and the Walloon Region. The study covered the estimation of passenger and freight potential, the estimation of investments required for the rehabilitation of the line and the estimation of the operating deficit to be covered. The study identified the lack of socio-economic relevance of the reopening program. However, this project was included in the 2012 Tritel study for the government and at its request to establish Walloon priorities. The total cost of reopening line 154 Dinant-Givet was EUR 40 million for the Belgian side. Since the line was not electrified, it required a huge investment. The former President of the French Republic, François Hollande, authorized the French Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Development, Laurent Fabius, dated 22 October 2014, on the basis of Article 152 of the Constitution, to sign on behalf of the Republic a letter of denunciation of a railway agreement between Belgium and France. Among the sixteen Franco-Belgian conventions denounced was the Convention relating to the connection of the French railway from Charleville to the Belgian railway from Namur dated 20 September 1860. In concrete terms, this means that France denounces the international connection to its crossing of borders. On the French side, a decision was taken in 2015 to reinvest the money planned for this project to reopen the Dinant-Givet line in favour of the renovation and maintenance of the Charleville-Givet line. Following new French approaches and the need to contribute to the reduction of the environmental impact of transport, a new study with expanded contours will be proposed. It will integrate Dinant-Givet into a wider framework of a Reims-Charleville-Givet-Dinant-Brussels link. The study will include a potential analysis, an operational feasibility study to integrate the respective France-Belgium transport plans, and technical and financial studies. Discussions are under way with the Walloon Region, which is interested in this project and the Greater East Region. In this context, on 19 November I signed a memorandum of understanding with my French colleague, Mrs Élisabeth Borne, to set out the modalities for our cross-border cooperation, the starting point of the study process.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u19	Minister, thank you for the answers. Does the study provide for stops in Hastière?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u20	It's impossible for me to pronounce myself. All I can tell you is that a study is under way. That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u21	I will therefore come back to you on this subject at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u22	Mr President, Minister, on 20 June 2018, I asked you a question about the concrete blocks at the entrance to the station in Bruges, to the left of the main entrance, side Bruges centre. These concrete blocks are just on the path where the trails of the station stop. You replied: "NMBS is currently preparing a specifications for a definitive and more aesthetic solution, such as galvanisable poles; its intention is to place them at the end of 2018; comments on the blind and visually impaired are included." My questions are as follows, Minister. Firstly, when are the current concrete blocks at the entrance to the station in Bruges, to the left of the main entrance, removed? Secondly, what solution will be put in place? Thirdly, when will this solution be placed? Where and how much? Fourthly, was this new solution tested? Was advice requested from the group of blind and visually impaired?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that it will adjust the distance between the concrete blocks in order to meet the needs as well as possible. She's looking at the best way to do that right now. The concrete blocks will be replaced by poles of 1 meter high and 20 centimeters diameter. The space between the poles will be 1.30 meters. The contract for 20 stations was awarded at the end of October. Taking into account the delivery deadlines of the poles, the works will start at the beginning of January. Bruges station will be one of the first stations to install this equipment. In front of the entrance of the underpass, three poles will be placed, for each of the three entrance doors to the counters each two. SNCB ensures that the solution takes into account the PBN standards and in particular those on podotactile guide lines, the minimum distance to an obstacle, and reflective strips.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u24	Mr President, Minister, thank you for taking Bruges first. However, I have one more question. There's gonna be, to you, three poles, in front of every door two. Do you mean six poles?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, there are three entrance doors. There will be three poles and three times two poles, so nine poles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u26	Minister, a number of articles have recently referred to the uncertain future of the Marloie station. You yourself made statements in the press. The SNCB would provide for the removal of the passenger station deputy head during the weekends due to a lack of staff due to non-replacements. The window could be affected by this lack of replacements, as one of the two counters would retire at the end of 2019. It is also known that travellers are increasingly using sales machines and digital sales channels to purchase their tickets. In recent years, SNCB has reported on the fact that opening hours and window services are systematically adapted to changing workloads at windows and to the natural evolution of the workforce as a result of retirements. The adaptation of window opening hours is neither less nor less than the consequence of this general principle. However, the Marloie station is heavily frequented, mainly on weekends, by students who go to Namur, Louvain-la-Neuve, Brussels or Liège. Minister, do we really have to fear for the future of Marloie station? Do you confirm the removal of the passenger station deputy head during the weekends? If so, is it due to a lack of staff? If so, why is staff not being replaced? Do you confirm that a reduction in window hours is not envisaged? What stations will soon be affected by a reduction in opening hours? I mentioned that the personnel problem was related to the fact that no replacement was found. It comes to my mind that some training courses would no longer take place, such as the ticket office. Examinations took place, but there was no result. For example, first deputy station chief exams were held in 2016, 2017 and 2018, with an average of 65 candidates each year. Apparently, no one passed this test. What were the procedures and organisation of training at SNCB? Could you confirm to me that some trainings would no longer be given? If so, which ones and why? What is the policy for retiring staff? Are they systematically replaced? How do you explain the low or even zero pass rate for some exams?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u27	Mrs. Goffinet, like you, when I heard these rumors, I got in touch with SNCB. I indicated that a reduction in window hours or the disappearance of deputy heads was not an option in my view, especially since in the case of degraded service, which is not uncommon, these staff members play a role of service to first-rate clients. In my vision of the client's central place, it is not intended to diminish the means of serving the client, especially in degraded times and when effective real-time communication channels are not yet in place. Following my intervention, the SNCB confirms to me that the closure of the Marloie station is not on the agenda. It also adds that the reduction in opening hours in Marloie or other stations is not on the agenda. Adaptations without any reduction in opening hours (e.g. by time lags or other organization of the window hours) are always possible at the different stations. Depending on the distribution of the number of passengers travelling to the ticket office during the day, the opening hours can be adjusted. If so, SNCB systematically informs its travellers in advance via the website and posters. With regard to the presence of deputy station chiefs at the Marloie station, SNCB points out that, unfortunately, it is currently being forced to reduce the presence of its staff at the station in order to deal with a temporary shortage of staff. This measure is not applied during the week. During the weekend, this reduced presence is only effective during periods of low influence. Recruitment is planned to fill this gap as soon as possible. Regarding your questions about exams, SNCB reports that the years 2016, 2017 and 2018 were indeed disappointing in terms of the number of winners HR Rail was able to score in its exams. In addition to the very low results of the candidates registered for the written examination, it should also be mentioned that the rate of absence – still around 40% for the first part – is a major factor and, in this respect, a surprising factor. Out of a hundred candidates, only sixty are running! As already stated, HR Rail acknowledges that the success rate in the written test of 2016, 2017 and 2018 was really not satisfactory. To address this issue, a project in which written tests are replaced by PC tests is underway within HR Rail. This will allow for more detailed analysis in order to better adapt the level of difficulty of the issues to the level expected by the management staff. This exercise has already been successfully applied for a wide range of advancement subdivisions and discussions between HR Rail and SNCB have taken place in order to implement it as early as next year for the category concerned by station staff. For 2018, HR Rail also reconsidered the exemption system. In concrete terms, this implies that candidates who already hold the position as having been in office for a specified period of time are exempted from the first part and therefore have direct access to the oral tests. Finally, it was decided to reduce the weighting of purely technical knowledge in favour of behavioural skills in 2018 internal selections for all categories of staff. Since this year, applicants have also been assessed on the soft skills they will need to perform their future function properly, in addition to traditional specific knowledge and skills. In addition to the measures already taken, proposals and measures are still under discussion to further modernize the internal advancement tests at HR Rail. With regard to the staff at the windows and the managers, there were no changes. Examinations are always organised and so far there have always been laureates. The Staff Regulations in Chapter III and the General Regulations for the Allocation of Employment (RGPS No. 501, Title III, Part III, Sub-Head of Station E IV*) refer to the procedures and organisation of training on the basis of a teaching plan. The famous Chapter IV Regularization reads as follows: In order to be regularised, the sub-chiefs of stations on trial or on probation must meet a test relating to vocational training and local initiation, as provided for in the teaching plan relating to their specialty. The mandatory basic training of a main station sub-head consists of three modules: 1. An introductory module, 22 days; 2. Operations and security, 26 days; 3. Customer services, 16 days. Each module is followed by summative evaluations. After the basic training, the officer is appointed to a work place in a district. The officer receives local training specific to the facility in which he or she works (either a station or a beam). At the end of this local training, he is interviewed in the presence of the installation manager, a professional trainer and a Safety staff member. If the officer succeeds, he receives a safety certificate and he can start working alone. Each year, he receives at least two days of "permanent" training. All station sub-chiefs have received their training. SNCB applies a recruitment policy based on functional needs. One of the parameters used in this regard is the age pyramid and the follow-up of retirement applications. Essential functions are always replaced in the event of the incumbent's retirement. If you know any candidates for the position of station deputy chief, invite them to register, and above all to go to the tests!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u28	First of all, I thank you for reassuring me and also reassure the passengers and staff at Marloie station. You had already done so in the press, but I believe that there have been new events since then and that it was important that you could reiterate your position and that of SNCB. However, with regard to training, I find the number of candidates who are running and, above all, who are taking the second test quite worrying. These trainings enable staff who retire or are on sick leave to be renewed. This has a direct impact on the daily work at the station. We must insist on recruitment procedures and strengthen the campaign, even if it is already active, as I saw on Facebook. There's still a lot to do at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u29	Debates of the European Parliament 27459 by Mr Raskin is without object. Debates of the European Parliament 27460 by Mrs Fonck is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 27537 by Mr Wollants has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u30	Mr President, Minister, the end of October was marked by a major social conflict on the Brussels Airport site. Indeed, following a strike by handlers, baggage management for transit passengers was no longer ensured and, de facto, airport activities were greatly affected by this situation. For thousands of citizens, especially families who were on vacation during the Toussaint period, it was a rather difficult time since hundreds of flights were cancelled. For the lucky ones, the journey was punctuated by the reign of trouble and patience. In an interview with the press in early November, the president of Aviapartner said: "I saw that trade unionists were wearing a "Respect" badge. Well, I think that's what's missed in this conflict. First, respect for the passengers and for those vacationers who had long saved to leave this week. How can we accept that Easyjet passengers stay more than three hours on a plane because they don't have a stairway to get out of it? How can we justify the fact that an Ethiopian plane is not unloaded with rotten flowers? It will take a law to regulate wild strikes in transport." Minister, my questions are as brief as they are specific. What is your position on this call for a minimum service at Belgian airports? Are you in favour of this measure? If so, do you think it can be applied in our country? In addition, do you possibly have an estimate of the financial consequences of this strike for both companies and passengers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while it falls under the fundamental right of workers to take social action, I cannot remain insensitive to the situation experienced by thousands of passengers and to the unfortunate image of this action for the airport and air transport in general. However, I must recall that Aviapartner is a private company contractually linked to other private companies (airline companies) and, via a licence, to the airport which is also a private actor. To make a comparison with the guaranteed service within the railways, I will tell you that they operate on a defined network on which an alternative transport plan can be organized. Air transport is much more complex and a minimum service seems much more difficult to set up. Which destinations would they be served? What companies, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Little information is available. It is therefore difficult to assess the financial impact of this social movement. However, I can confirm the following: 960 Aviapartner-dependent flights were cancelled, which affected more than 115,000 travellers. The concrete impact will have to be assessed within each airline that contracted with Aviapartner.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u32	Minister, thank you. As you indicated, the consequences are direct and tangible for travellers who were unable to leave or who had to wait several days before they could board. But in the longer term, this may tarnish the image of our country. It's quite challenging. I understand the elements with regard to the particular difficulty or context for air transport. Finally, Mr Minister, I thank you for the few figures you have given us: 115 000 travellers, this is a significant number. It seems to me that we will have to reflect on these issues because we cannot reproduce this type of pattern in each holiday approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u33	Minister, to fill the void left by the removal of the Thalys Wallon which connected the main Walloon cities in Paris, SNCB has just confirmed the launch of new links between Charleroi, Namur and Paris via Maubeuge; and Mons in Paris via Aulnoye-Aymeries. They will be inaugurated very soon. In view of the information published so far, it seems very likely that these new connections will never be able to satisfy the former travellers of the Thalys Wallon, since the journey time between Mons and Paris thus approximates the three hours, where the Thalys linked Mons directly to Paris in just an hour and a quarter. Therefore, Minister, I am curious to know what arguments you and SNCB are going to use to make this line attractive, knowing that even modes of transport such as carpooling or coaching will be much cheaper and faster for travellers. Could you enlighten me on this? What are the reasons why travellers would use this Mons-Paris connection in particular? And, in case of failure to operate this link, do you envisage a return of the Thalys Walloon?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u34	Dear colleague, looking at Namur-Paris and Mons-Paris relations as an alternative to Thalys is a mistake. At a time when we are talking more and more about a Europe of the regions, at a time when, at our different borders, in particular with the Netherlands, Germany and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, foreign operators are seeking to enter Belgium with their trains; at a time when the Walloon Region and the Hauts-de-France Region are two areas of life with many exchanges and where environmental concerns are at the top of the agenda, thinking cross-border mobility only from the car's point of view would have been an acute political myopia. The question of Thalys must arise in the context of the technical possibilities and the reflection of the transport plan as a whole. This question will have to be asked in the preparation of future transport plans. Every day thousands of workers, students and tourists cross the Belgian border in one direction or another. Often, they do not have the opportunity or the means to take a Thalys Walloon. To go back in more detail on this new offer from December 9, 2018, the cities of Charleroi and Namur, on the one hand, and Mons, on the other, will be linked to Paris via Maubeuge and Aulnoye-Aymeries, respectively, for an attractive price. On weekdays, for example, it will be possible to reach Paris from Mons for just under 40 euros. From Charleroi, the price of a single journey to Paris will be about 42 euros, compared to 50 euros from Namur. Discount rates are also provided during the weekend and for young people under 26 years of age, ranging from 25 to 28 euros per journey. This rate should be compared to that of Thalys, which is 100 euros. As a first step, travellers from Namur, Charleroi and Mons will have to borrow a connection from Maubeuge or Aulnoye-Aymeries to get to Paris. They will therefore take an international train IC Namur-Charleroi-Sud-Maubuge or Mons-Aulnoye-Aymeries which will travel twice a day in each direction on each of the two routes, one train in the morning, one train in the evening, on weekdays and weekends. Each train is connected with a train from and to Paris-Nord of the SNCF, in this case the first and last of the day. This correspondence therefore takes place in Maubeuge or Aulnoye-Aymeries according to the connections. These trains also offer connections from and to Valenciennes and other destinations in the Hauts-de-France. These relations also link the university centres of Mons, Charleroi, Namur, Saint-Quentin and Paris. The restoration of these links offers workers (5,000 Frenchmen who enter Belgium every day, 1,200 Belgians who go to France), students whose numbers I do not have the estimate and customers, a mobility solution which is certainly a little less rapid than high speed but much less expensive and more flexible since without reservation. The aim is to encourage a modal shift to the train for cross-border travel, whether commuting, home-schooling or leisure. The target audience is therefore broad and I hope that the public will take ownership of this project and make it a success. For French residents, the question is also to access the airport of Charleroi or Brussels. SNCB assures me that I am confident, with SNCF, about the potential of its new proposal. An extension of the direct supply of conventional rolling stock to Paris is already under consideration. Not everyone necessarily chooses high speed. Flexibility and accessibility are also keywords and we have experience in the field. Between Brussels and Amsterdam, we have the coexistence of the high speed Thalys and the international train and each of the modes of transport fulfils its task with different target audiences with different rates. They both correspond to the aspirations of a clientele that is sometimes very broad. In the speech of the "Thalys of the Poor" that some of your colleagues held, I prefer "A train to Paris for all". The revitalisation of conventional cross-border lines should not always be opposed to a return of high speed in Wallonia. Both types of offer are complementary, not contradictory. Finally, this classical liaison project is part of the ongoing renegotiation of the SNCF public services concession with the Hauts-de-France region, which should include the Paris-Maubuge intercity relationship in the future. The offer must therefore be defined taking into account the existing Maubeuge-Paris offer. In order to improve the competitiveness of the supply side, and in the light of feedback from experience, various measures are possible: improving slots and increasing frequency.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u35	Minister, thank you. I am very pleased that you cite the example of other links where conventional lines and high-speed lines coexist in your intervention. Why don't you do the same for Wallonia? We could maintain lines that are more frequent during the day, for workers, and maintain the possibility of high-speed lines. Wallonia cannot, however, be the only Region where it would not be possible to use high-speed lines to serve cities, whereas the trend is in this direction, everywhere in Europe. Nevertheless, I invite you to evaluate the solution that will be proposed. It does not have only disadvantages, but before the Montois could go to Paris in an hour and a quarter, and now it will take them almost three hours by changing trains. There is clearly a decline in mobility, even if Thalys was more expensive. When we booked the Thalys well in advance, it was possible to have good rates. I invite you, however, to re-evaluate the matter and not systematically close the door when the Thalys returns. It is well known that Thalys disappeared mainly because it was necessary to compensate for the disappearance of another, who was linking Paris to Ostend empty. However, the Thalys Walloon had a filling rate of about 70%, and had some profitability. Two routes were really compared that had nothing comparable, and the suppression of the Thalys Wallon was justified by the suppression of the Flemish Thalys which was useless.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u36	Mr President, I have two questions and an inquiry. If I may, I will first deal with my question of travel time. Then I will put my question about your meeting with the Luxembourg Minister and my inquiry. In March 2007, SNCB launched work to modernise railway infrastructure on lines 161 and 162 between Brussels and Luxembourg. The initial objective of this large modernisation project was to raise the reference speed to 160 km/h on the sections long enough to allow acceleration and deceleration, thus saving estimated time between 11 and 20 minutes, depending on the type of train used. This work lasts and endures. They were supposed to end at the end of 2019. For almost twelve years, travellers have seen their journey times constantly increased due to work. They despair of seeing the end of it and wait to be able to win on their journey the few minutes that have been promised to them for so long. As I speak to you, the scheduled time to reach Brussels-Midi in Luxembourg is 3 hours and 17 minutes! In response to one of my parliamentary questions, you have announced that the maximum 20-minute journey time saving on the Brussels-Luxembourg route will be achieved by the end of all the work on the modernisation of axis 3 (161-162) Luxembourg-Border Ottignies, as well as the switch to 25 000 volts of line 162 power supply. Minister, is this modernization still scheduled to be completed by the end of 2019? If not, why not? According to yesterday's press, it would seem that there are still problems until 2020! Can you inform me about the medium-term commercial speed of Brussels-Luxembourg: - when work in the province of Luxembourg is completed; - when the M7 and AM 08 are put into service; - when the ER works are finished? Are there prospects for further reductions in long-term travel time? If so, what and how long could they deliver? I'm chaining up with my arrest. Getting to or coming back from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has become a real hell since September 2018. On the one hand, traffic jams have become the daily lot of motorists as a result of the E411 rehabilitation project between Arlon and Sterpenich, although this work is necessary and welcome to improve traffic to and from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in the long term. On the other hand, train traffic in the province of Luxembourg has been chaotic for several months. The situation on the line was even catastrophic until mid-October, as traffic had been interrupted on numerous occasions and trains had been abolished, even on the weekend. Despite slight improvements, the situation remains serious and is likely to worsen. In October, in response to one of my questions, you said that, starting with the generalisation of the ETC on the Luxembourg network in December 2018 and throughout 2019, a single M6 train would provide direct connections to Brussels and Luxembourg, with all other departures leading to correspondence in Arlon to move from the M6 and M96 from the SMB to the CFL Dostos led by SNCB staff. From the end of 2019 until 2022 at the earliest, the situation on the line is expected to be similar to the situation in October 2018. There would not be enough T13 locomotives to provide full service. The train journey from and to Luxembourg will therefore remain a tare for at least three more years. It is therefore necessary to improve and increase the supply of trains to compensate for road problems and to capture the demand for latent rail mobility and to restore a full service without waiting for 2022 and the commissioning of M7s. Various works on the roads towards Luxembourg will have to be carried out. The Walloon Minister of Public Works has announced that he has written to you asking SNCB to put in place additional trains during the duration of the project. Responding to this demand will reduce road traffic and provide a unique opportunity to promote the modal shift from the car to the train. The supply of trains is particularly likely to attract motorists during work. At the end of October, you told me that at present the frequency and occupancy rate of trains between Arlon and Luxembourg did not justify the introduction of additional trains, since the offer of SNCB between Arlon and Luxembourg was already significant, especially during peak hours. SNCB points out that the framework for the modernisation of line 162 and the Arlon railway station did not envisage increasing the supply between the two cities in the short term. However, SNCB's assumption of sufficient frequency and occupancy contrasts strongly with the situation experienced by commuters, who often find themselves in crowded trains to Luxembourg. On the other hand, apparently all this lack of demand is due to the difficulty of getting to Arlon station by car and parking there. However, there is a latent demand for all drivers trapped in the E411 and E25 lines. The Viville-Stockem P+R must therefore be opened as quickly as possible to meet this latent demand. In July 2016, you confirmed the opening of a free parking area for commuters on the site of the former SNCB workshops in Stockem by the end of 2017. Parking space was to be arranged in a phased manner. Initially, in the short term, the existing infrastructure could have been exploited. Approximately 200 parking spaces could be made available as of December 2017. The development of the infrastructure to be carried out was minor because the current parking spaces of the workshop had to be used to accommodate 200 to 300 parking spaces at the start. With regard to road infrastructure, there was no need to develop access to the new car park. In addition, the existing wharfs were recent and had been in service for several years and should not be modified. Secondly, after analysis, it would have been considered to develop a greater capacity. The schedule of work was therefore to be set at the end of 2017 on the basis of budgetary means. SNCB would have needed an additional infrastructure (signaling and catenaries) to provide an offer to Viville-Stockem. Infrabel was studying the cost of this infrastructure and its sustainability as part of the shift under 25 kV in 2019. The promise of the pilot project with a more advantageous pricing and a free P+R for operational commuters for changing schedules in 2017 has obviously not been realized. However, it can and should be, in my view, as quickly as possible. I suggested it to you on October 24th. You said: "This solution, P+R de Viville, makes sense only if the railway companies have the technical capacity to implement a sufficient supply." It is therefore imperative to put in service additional adapted rolling stock on the Luxembourg line. SNCB has equipment adapted to the new cross-border conditions with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. There should therefore be sufficient two-voltage trains 3 kV and 25 kV equipped with ETCS to operate to Luxembourg. If certain trainsets are not approved in Luxembourg, approval normally lasts three months after the file has been filed. It is therefore possible to adapt rolling stock to other lines on this Arlon-Luxembourg line, even though it is possible to distribute the bi-voltage trains equally on the various international lines which need them, and thus to share on all lines the disadvantage caused by the change in tension and the generalisation of the ETC in Luxembourg. It's a matter of will. Furthermore, it would be possible to open the Viville P+R by extending the route of the CFL trains from Arlon to Viville without changing technical capacity. Minister, what is the current situation on the Luxembourg line? Are the technical problems that have led to so many delays and train deletions until mid-October now resolved? Do you confirm that it is possible, within a reasonable time, to carry out an approval in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and to re-allocate rolling stock suitable for this line? Are you ready to request the commissioning of more rolling stock adapted to this line? Do you confirm that it is possible to open the P+R Stockem-Viville within the time required for the installation of adequate signs and signals and to offer a suitable train offer? This could be done by extending the route of the CFL trains from Arlon to Viville. Are you ready to request the early opening of the Viville P+R and the implementation of the corresponding SNCB offer? Do you think that the chaos that reigned from September to October, and the reduction of service until 2022, is a special case, or the symptom of a lack of project management and crisis management on the part of SNCB? You informed me in October that a meeting was to be held with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on 21 November. I'd like to know what's going on. Were you able to discuss at this meeting the question of Luxembourg's choice to move ETCS equipment on its network by more than 18 months? What are the concrete consequences? What is the planned schedule? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u37	Mr President, I thank my colleague for recalling all the elements we have been working on for months with the minister. I have a question on one of these points in particular: Park & Ride. Mr Minister, in your reply to my colleague Mrs Goffinet concerning Park & Ride, you say that "this solution only makes sense if railway undertakings have the technical capabilities (25kV and ETCS) to implement a satisfactory offer". The term "railway undertakings" refers to the only SNCB, since the CFL passed in 25 kV and wants to anticipate the installation of ETCS in 2019. It was originally planned for 2021, but following the accident in Bettembourg, the Grand Duchy wanted to anticipate this installation. You have assured us that, according to the information available to you, steps are being taken to bring SNCB equipment up to standard, as my colleague has mentioned. It may then be that CFL and SNCB have the technical capacity to effectively provide transport fairly quickly. Minister, do you not think that there is a lack of anticipation on the part of SNCB, which could now prepare the Park & Ride site, so that it is ready when the two railway companies are ready to carry out the traffic? Do you have the power to direct SNCB to take this matter forward, in close cooperation with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg? Your predecessor had given a mission to the intercommunal Ldelux as part of the preparation of the Park & Ride of Arlon. I believe that this work has been done and that the results have been communicated, but I do not know whether the intercommunal should ensure follow-up. Finally, a suggestion completes my question. When I see all this debate, with Infrabel, the SNCB, the problem of increasing electricity capacity, the installation of ETCS, the relations with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, I wonder, Mr Minister, to what extent we should not try to organise what the SNCB, at the time, called a roadshow, with all the actors concerned in the province of Luxembourg, including the public authorities and the municipalities. This would at least allow for appropriate communication not only to the public authorities, but also to all commuters. It goes in every direction, everyone intervenes, social networks make it an amalgam and a bazaar of all the devils! I think that there should be a comprehensive communication, perhaps involving CFLs if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation on 162 from the beginning of September to mid-October has indeed been very complicated, with a poor punctuality – unacceptable to me – and a large number of trains removed. This situation improved considerably in mid-October thanks to the actions implemented by SNCB and Infrabel, which I shook a little bit. According to information collected by Infrabel, there were 353 cancellations of trains running between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the periods from 1 September to 22 November included. A distinction should be made between the drop in punctuality due to work on lines 161 and 162 and problems related to rolling stock. Since June 2018, work has been under way with a single route between Habay and Lavaux. This work caused a lot of delays due to too much slowdown not reflected in the theoretical schedules which had been calculated. In the meantime, the notice of slowdown has been lifted and the timetables have been adjusted in mid-October. Since the beginning of September, 25 000 volt compatible equipment – V13 locomotives and old international cars – has been introduced on the relationship between IC Brussels and Luxembourg. These trains have experienced numerous incidents, resulting in lost punctuality and lost trains. These incidents took place on Belgian trains. The technical problems on trainsets composed of Belgian T13 locomotives and old international cars were mastered at the beginning of October, which resulted in a sharp reduction in train deletions due to equipment damage. The damage to these trains comprising T13 and international cars in September was due mainly to three causes. First, an intermittent technical problem in the communication between the pilot car and the locomotive. This problem is now resolved. Secondly, problems with the provision of trainsets at the maintenance centre following the work organised at night on line 162. Specific monitoring of these trainsets is planned to address the problems of doors and converters. Due to night work, the equipment inoperative did not have the furrow to go to the workshop to get repaired. The problem in the evening was therefore not resolved for the next morning. Thirdly, the wrong handling of drivers, who were trained but did not have enough practice on this equipment. The necessary instructions have been clarified, combined with coaching in the field. This concerned both the T13s, which were hauling old international cars, and the Dosto machines in Luxembourg, which were available to Belgian drivers. In the week of 5-11 November, punctuality on line 162 was at an acceptable level of 89.5%. We would like it to be maintained as it stands. Indeed, if my memory is good, the rate had fallen to 60% in the past. On the other hand, SNCB points out that since 12 November it has again observed a deterioration in punctuality and an increase in damage, which it is trying to remedy as soon as possible. Trains have thus been grounded because of leaves falling on the tracks. Next, SNCB tells me that it provides for the certification of the equipment to Luxembourg. This is first of all the Desiros, put into service by the end of 2019 on the L relations. However, this material is not suitable for long IC connections. I know that today, an IC broke down and had to be replaced urgently by a Desiro. I was provided with photos that showed that many people had remained standing. For the rest, the T13 locomotives equipped with ETCS will also be in order by the end of 2019. The T18 locomotives will be in place in the course of 2020. As for the future M7, they will be for 2021-2022. The polycurrent AM96s are not available in sufficient quantities, as they provide the connections Antwerp-Lille and Namur-Lille. The equipment currently running on the line – i.e. type 13 locomotives, international cars and Luxembourg Dostos – is adapted to the technical characteristics of the line, on the one hand, and the need to maintain a Brussels-Luxembourg service, on the other. Information on the gain in travel time and the increase in speed per section will be provided to you through the annex available to me. The aim is that a direct train from Brussels to Luxembourg – which, under current conditions, would travel this route at 2:55 a.m. – will be able to do this at 2:05 a.m. As far as the parking offer in Arlon is concerned, it should be noted that the SNCB has increased it significantly on the site of the station of the City, by setting up 165 places for a total capacity of 765 pitches. In November, an agreement with the province, the City and the SNCB provided 156 additional locations within a few minutes' walk of the station for the duration of the E411 work, which allowed for more commuters. With regard to a direct service between Viville and Luxembourg, neither SNCB nor CFLs currently have the equipment available to ensure such relations. On the other hand, the infrastructure in Viville does not make it possible to organize a terminus there. In order to do so, the development of an accessory track at Stockem would be necessary. As for the offer in Viville, it cannot be expanded until the Infrabel construction site with a single-track service between Lavaux and Habay is in operation, i.e. until mid-2020 according to the current schedules. From this point onwards, a service schedule will be provided, if necessary, live to Luxembourg in cooperation with the CFLs, provided that compatible equipment is available. With regard to the implementation of the Park & Ride in Viville, I have renewed my request to SNCB and Infrabel to draw up a common sheet as part of the discussions with the Walloon Region on the financing of priority projects in the Walloon Region and possible co-financing by the Region. At the meeting held in Luxembourg on 21 November 2018, a few days ago, between SNCB, CFLs, representatives of Minister Bausch and my firm, it was decided that CFLs and SNCB would construct a scenario for the organisation of a satisfactory offer via Viville from mid-2020 onwards and not later than 2021, as initially announced. As for the decision taken by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to move its network equipment into ETCS by more than 18 months, I stress that I address the issue whenever I have the opportunity to meet with the Grand Ducal Authorities. This will still be the case on the sidelines of the Transport Ministers' Council next Monday. We must be aware that, several months ago, we wrote a letter to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, to the security authority and to the CFLs and to the minister. This is a request for a derogation in order to be able to continue using the Memorandum, the number of months necessary for the implementation and receipt of equipment approvals in ETCS, bearing in mind that the Parliament of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, following the Bettembourg accident, decided to anticipate the installation of ETCS by 18 months, without taking into account the requirements of the foreign railway companies which must thus anticipate the approval of their equipment by 18 months. These Belgian, French and German companies are faced with extremely long delays in the provision of services by the contracting companies Siemens, Bombardier or Alstom. These deadlines are very difficult and we are making every effort to minimize them. We do not hope to significantly reduce the request for derogation to just a few months. Mr. Piedboeuf, the intercommunal had done a reassignment study of the site of the former workshops. SNCB intends to sell the buildings, but not the parking spaces. As for the organization of a meeting, this is a good suggestion. I will ask that it be organized in Libramont or in Arlon with representatives of Infrabel and SNCB as well as the mayors, the elected representatives and the representatives of the commuters. Mrs. Goffinet, you asked me about the trains. Indeed, two trains will be stopped in Libramont from the transport plan of 8 or 9 December in order to widen the night work beaches. We need to communicate effectively on this point, because it will have an impact on a few dozen travellers. But it must also be explained that, otherwise, we should extend the duration of the work. I have set aside significant amounts to finish work on axis 3, finish the ER and other ongoing files. Today's enhanced investments are being used to create a high-performance rail for tomorrow. However, I am aware of the disadvantages. When we work on the motorway to create a carpool between Arlon and Luxembourg, drivers suffer the consequences. Unfortunately, work on rail and highways is concomitant. But it's for a better tomorrow. I am putting myself in the place of commuters and travellers who are facing delays on the road and rail networks. We must avoid carrying out work that overwhelms domestic and international traffic during the day, which concerns most commuters. To achieve this, we require Infrabel to work at night, which results in an increase in costs. This night work is a lesser evil, but it is nevertheless a disadvantage for some people. Mr Piedboeuf, I will both find the place and instruct SNCB and Infrabel to agree to put into practice this meeting (without promising that it will take place before the end of December) where the situation will be presented, developments in the certification of rolling stock, the impact on schedules and work and the planning of improvements on the Brussels-Luxembourg line. It seems to me that we need to be transparent and avoid being taken hostage by commuters without information. Decisions have been made, in particular, for Arlon, Marbehan and Libramont stations in terms of real-time display of data on applications, as not everyone has it. Transparency must be made. In the meantime, we are taking the steps we can. I also reported an incident yesterday – a number of people in my region and in your own – to the SNCB Directorate-General who asked me to send him information. The SNCB is taking action. While we were talking, I looked today at whether there were delays or problems. Only one train this morning was 11 minutes late. All the other trains were one or two minutes late or even on time. What is true today may not be true tomorrow. This is where discomfort lies and this is what we must try to verify by making the quality of the material and the line more robust. I have no doubt that the two companies are working on it, but it is not always simple. We remain confronted with unknown techniques that we must be able to keep as far away as possible. It should also be noted that the Arlon workshop was mobilized around the maintenance of these famous international machines previously parked in Ostend where technicians and technical expertise were located. By talking and training, they have found suitable solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u39	Minister, thank you for the information you have given us. I am glad that Luxembourgers are now one!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u40	They've always been one. I know something!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u41	In your policy statement, you raised the importance of direct liaison between Liège and Maastricht, on the one hand, and Antwerp and Roosendaal, on the other. I think the connection with Luxembourg is no less so! You noted all the concerns experienced by the various travellers in September and October. I can only be saddened that we are again confronted with problems of youth, or old age, of material – I do not know too much since the problem persists. Information at the station is still lacking, as I was able to see at my expense last week. And as far as certification is concerned, we should really try to find solutions to have simultaneous approval between Belgium and the Grand Duchy. The European Commission has taken over the problem and is seeking to solve it. Meetings on this subject were scheduled in December, according to the information available to me, at least for the M7. You mention that the equipment that can be used on the line to Luxembourg is assigned to the Antwerp-Lille and Namur-Lille lines, but could not some of this material be reallocated to this essential link with Luxembourg? This would help to distribute the disadvantages. I remain convinced that Stockem should be reopened as soon as possible. I know that new car parks are already in place to meet the passengers' demand, but they are in the middle of the city as the highway is blocked and Viville would prevent users from having to cross the city at rush hours in order to catch the train. I find it hard to understand why a Dosto starting in Arlon couldn't start in Viville-Stockem. I understand that a service route should be recreated, but there are many of them to my knowledge. Some are not electrified, but at least one could have served, but it was deselectrified. We're gonna have to re-elect her. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u42	In any case, re-electrification is necessary because we pass in 25,000 volts; today you have 3,000 volts. If you look at the pantographs and the beams, you will find that we put both and everything is renewed. New posts and lines must be put on anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u43	But there are no (or more) catenaries
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u44	Whatever. On line 162, they replace the stands, the supports, the cables, the catenaries, everything... Today the old and the old coexist, but in any case we had to redo the electrification on the link. It will be easier to do so now that we disassemble everything than to coexist 3,000 and 25,000 volts. If the Dosto doesn't go to Viville, it's because it's not possible to assign a furrow. It is not available because of the single lane. I had this explained on a schematic basis. Ask a railway expert, he will tell you that the trail is unattributed. In any case, from mid-2020 onwards, we ask that this be put into service.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u45	From 2017 we are already going to 2020. I remain convinced that it is possible to put everyone around the table to try to find a solution in the short term because it is unimaginable to have to wait so long for...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u46	Today, a RER line was inaugurated, the work of which began in 2006, Ms. Goffinet. What do you want me to say? As Minister of Mobility, I put a billion dollars on the table for work. You can imagine I'd like to cut the ribbons! But others will. Today, I cut one for decisions made ten years ago. It's life! The railway is very heavy. We ordered M7 machines in 2015. Imagine that I would have liked to ride on the first of them! That will not be the case as a minister, I believe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u47	Let's still think about trying to save as much time as possible and move forward especially on the work of the M7! I invite you to bring together all the protagonists around the table in order to find solutions quickly. Mr. Chair, Minister, in an attempt to move things forward, I intend to table a motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u48	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, my colleague will therefore table a motion. But I am witnessing that you are working on the issue on a daily basis, since there are constant inquiries about it and you are responding to them by following up. I was glad to hear that the deadlines will be shortened. Indeed, a few months ago, those deadlines were much longer. I am also pleased to note that the dynamics of the Park&Ride will be anticipated so that it is ready when the SNCB and CFL are in a position to provide the service. With regard to applications for approval, I am pleased to note that the deadlines have also been shortened. I have called the leadership of the CFL and I know that you have called your Luxembourg counterpart. Efforts must be continued in relation to the Luxembourg accreditation unit. But by bringing us all together, including with my colleague, we will be able to carry out the operation within time limits that remain reasonable. It is true that, for lack of luck, road works were carried out simultaneously. If we had not faced this additional problem, the situation would be more bearable. Anyway, this is all in the right direction. Your answers please me, Minister. We will continue to work to achieve our goals.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u49	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Anne-Catherine Goffinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms Anne-Cathernie Goffinet and the response of the Minister of Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, asks the government: - to force SNCB to solve the structural problem of the lack of adequate rolling stock on the Luxembourg line by reallocating multi-voltage rolling stock equipped with ETCS capable of making the Brussels-Luxembourg link from other lines to this line; - to equip ETCS's polytension equipment if not yet available and to proceed to its approval in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg as soon as possible in order to put it into service in order to link Brussels directly to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg; - not to wait until the approval of M7s is acquired in Belgium, at the earliest in 2021, to apply for approval in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in order to anticipate their entry into service on the line to Luxembourg by one year (currently the completion of the approval of M7s is foreseen at the earliest in 2022 since, once the approval is acquired, it takes a statutory period of six months before the cars are put into service). Both applications for approval must be submitted at the same time; - to put the AM 08 Desiro bivoltages equipped with ETCS into service on the line to Luxembourg upon their approval on the Grand-Ducal network, in the third quarter of 2019 and not to wait until the M7, at the earliest in 2022, to replace the T13 and the combination M6/AM 96 with the CFL Dosto on the route Brussels-Luxembourg; - to accelerate the development of the Viville/Stockem P&R and anticipate its opening in a gradual manner; - to open Viville station and extend CFL trains to Viville; - opening the 200-300 seats available today without any work; - to plan for the full development of the Viville P&R as soon as possible in collaboration with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg; - to re-evaluate SNCB's offer between the Province and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the basis of changes in the rate of occupancy of trains following the opening of the P&R in Viville; - to encourage SNCB to better inform passengers on board trains as well as at stations on connections. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms Anne-Catherine Goffinet and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Anne-Catherine Goffinet and the reply of the Minister for Mobility, responsible for Belgocontrol and the National Society of Belgian Railways, calls on the Government to: - to force SNCB to resolve the structural problem of the lack of suitable rolling stock for the line to Luxembourg by transferring multi-voltage trains equipped with the ETCS system which can run on the Brussels-Luxembourg line from other lines to that line; - equip the multi-voltage trains with the ETCS system, if not already so, and have them type-approved as soon as possible in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in order to put that equipment into service in order to connect Brussels directly to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, - not to await the approval of the M7 trains in Belgium completed in 2021 at the earliest in order to put those trains into service on the line to Luxembourg (since it is expected that the M7s will be fully Homologised in 2022 at the earliest, since a legal period of six months will have to be observed for the train sets to be put into service after an approval, - submit at the same time the two applications for approval; - to operate the two-voltage trains equipped with the ETCS system, the Desiro AM08s, on the line to Luxembourg as soon as they have been groomed on the Luxembourg network - i.e. in the third quarter of 2019 - and the commissioning of the M7 trains, which is scheduled for 2022 at the earliest, do not wait to replace the T13 trains and the combination of the M6, AM 96 and Dosto trains of the Luxembourg railway company CFL on the Brussels-Luxembourg link; - to speed up the construction of the P+R in Viville-Stockem and to open it earlier by gradually opening the parking lot; - open the Viville station and have trains run from the CFL to Viville; - make available to travellers the 200 to 300 parking spaces already available today, without having to carry out any work; - complete the P+R in Viville together with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg as soon as possible; - to re-evaluate the SNCB offer between the Province of Luxembourg and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in the light of the evolution of the capacity utilisation of trains following the opening of the P+R in Viville; - encourage SNCB to better inform passengers on trains and stations about their connections. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Gautier Calomne. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Gautier Calomne. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u50	Minister, on the weekend of 20 October, a wheelchair user wanted to take the train between Lichtervelde and Menen. By working on the railway between Roeselare and Kortrijk and between Kortrijk and Menen there are no trains and replacement buses have been announced. The wheelchair user was told that he could not commute on the replacement bus, because his wheelchair would take too much place. The replacement bus, which is not equipped with a ramp, is not calculated on wheelchairs. Before that, taxis were used for wheelchair users. However, that possibility appears to have been deleted in the meantime. Taxis are only made available if one cannot unexpectedly take the train because, for example, there has been an incident. I contacted Kortrijk's "B for You" team myself. That confirmed the story that I find quite hallucinating myself. It even added that the yard information boards at the station state that wheelchair users cannot use the shuttle bus. What exactly has gone wrong here, Minister? Are you aware of the event and other similar events? What exactly is the procedure for wheelchair users? Are they allowed or not allowed on the replacement buses? Does that only apply if a train does not drive unexpectedly, for example in the event of an incident, or if it was announced that a train does not drive, for example when working? Why are there not accessible replacement buses? Many wheelchair users rely on public transport. So they should be able to take a replacement bus if the train doesn't drive. This seems to me to be a real discrimination against people with disabilities. People without wheelchairs are served by replacement buses, but people with disabilities must draw their plans and be told that they have to order and pay a taxi themselves. Is it true that taxi transport for wheelchair users has been cancelled, when they cannot or cannot be on the replacement bus? Then why do they have to pay and arrange for their own transportation, when an alternative, namely the replacement bus, is easily arranged for people without wheelchairs? Finally, will you do something so that people in wheelchairs, even if the train does not drive on, for example, announced works, can count on accessible replacement buses?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u51	My dear colleague, for the weekend of 20 and 21 October, SNCB has found a request for assistance that fits your description. However, taxi rides were ordered and performed for that person. SNCB asks you to provide her with more information so that she can respond more accurately. In Belgium 132 stations offer assistance services for persons with reduced mobility, including wheelchair users. Of these 132 stations, 17 work together with taxi companies, allowing a transport service to be offered to persons with reduced mobility, including the PPE in wheelchairs, whether motorised or not. That service is available subject to reservation. SNCB tries to use as many accessible replacement buses as possible in the case of replacements, but cannot guarantee that all buses are accessible. Sometimes accessibility also depends on the bus stop. Therefore, SNCB continues to recommend that assistance be sought, as with a train journey, so that as many taxis as possible can be used for wheelchair users. If assistance is requested, SNCB shall endeavour to provide taxis. In situations where the train is unable to drive and replacement buses must be installed, the necessary efforts shall be made to provide an alternative for wheelchair users. However, SNCB is also dependent on the availability of wheelchair transport by taxi companies. SNCB therefore certainly recommends that assistance be reserved well in advance through the normal procedure. In accordance with its transport conditions in Article 7 (1), § 2, SNCB may temporarily suspend a service in whole or in part for imperative operating reasons. In such cases, SNCB communicates the measures directly at the stations concerned and also informs them when a traveller with reduced mobility reserves assistance. In the stations of Lichtervelde and Menen an assistance service is available, if there are no operating works. The assistance teams shall, as far as possible, take the necessary steps to respond to the customer's request, but they shall not be able to insure the service if no material is available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, even if I am very disappointed. I do not understand why there is no final procedure so that, if replacement transport is to be organised, wheelchair users can always be guaranteed access to it or if a bus appears to be inaccessible or if the stop is not accessible, a taxi is provided for people in wheelchairs. Your answer shows that everything depends on the offer. That was also the case here. The wheelchair user had first been told that he had to arrange and finance his transport himself. I'll call you myself. Then, out of shame, because I am just a little more on my lines than the average man here, we still arranged transport with the question of not doing anything with it in Parliament. I find that scandalous. I believe that as a minister, you can set up procedures that impose transport provisions. If the bus or stop is not accessible, at least a taxi must be provided. Those travelers can't just take the car like us if the train doesn't drive. They depend on public transport. They have no alternatives at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u53	Minister, it has been possible for some time to order train tickets online. Then the ticket doesn't have to be printed anymore, but it is placed on the eID chip so that the train guide only has to read the identity card. That's very convenient. However, people with an increased allowance still need to apply for a separate card for this, which is why I ask whether these data can also be placed on the eID chip so that the identity card must be read, because that separate card must be requested and shown every year on the transport tickets.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u54	Miss Van Camp, SNCB informs me that a distinction must be made between a banknote increased concession and the discount card increased concession which shows that a discount is entitled to when purchasing the banknote. The customer can already purchase an increased allowance and place it on his eID. For that, he doesn't need his card increased compensation. SNCB notes that if a customer combines such a banknote with the TEC, he can purchase it from the vending machines or from the counters. When combined with STIB, the banknote can only be purchased at the counters. The discount card increased concession is a paper card issued by SNCB. The customer must submit them in case of verification, as is the case with the card for large families. That card shows that you are entitled to the discount granted. The social personal data of a customer can already be read at the eID card reader point. If a customer wishes to receive an increased fee, he can simply present himself with his identity card at the counter. The sales staff checks whether the customer has the status of a rightholder for an increased concession by connecting with the customer's identity card with the Crossroads Bank of Social Security (paying electronic search via the National Register). Currently, the RVT Statute is granted to the Window for a period of one or five years for persons aged 65 or over. The paper discount card and the validation for one or five years are printed. In your question, you cite the possibility of placing the right to RVT status on the eID card, with the aim of abolishing the current RVT card. SNCB informs me that this is not possible at the moment, as SNCB cannot write to the eID card. SNCB therefore does not intend to abolish the physical RVT cards in the short term in favour of the electronic identity card.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u56	Mr Minister, in recent weeks I have often received complaints about travellers who in Herentals cannot be connected to Brussels in the morning or to Mol in the evening on the way back, while these were often trains that were within the planned six-minute delay. There was even the striking example of the train from Brussels, on the return ride, which was virtually stationary in Herentals, while at that time the IC Hamant/Hasselt left in front of all passengers, while the delay was not six minutes, otherwise the train would not be able to pass in front of the passengers. Why is this connection missing so often lately, even if the train from Brussels has only a slight delay? Normally, this connection must be assured if the delay does not exceed six minutes. A second problem concerns the platforms. The train from Brussels arrives on track 3 in Herentals, which from Antwerp to Hamant/Hasselt on track 2. This way passengers can easily switch over and do not have to change platforms. My question is why this can't happen in the morning either. Now the train arrives in the morning to Brussels on track 2 in Herentals and to Antwerp, coming from Hamont/Hasselt, on track 1. This means that people have to keep running down the stairs, go through the tunnel and run the stairs back up and hopefully make their way to Brussels. Can both trains, including those on the way out, just like on the way back, arrive on the same platform? This is what it's for anyway. I do not understand that this is true in the case of the return, but in the reverse case it is not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that travellers arriving from Brussels in Herentals normally have a connection to Mol and Hamont within seven minutes. Infrabel adds that the IC train to Hamont has a waiting time of two minutes in case of a small delay of the IC train from Binche-Brussels. During the night peak three IC trains to Hamont themselves have a waiting time of five minutes. SNCB states that, unfortunately, if the train is delayed for more than six minutes, the train towards Mol cannot wait. This train must definitely arrive in Neerpelt on time, otherwise it will pass on its delay to the train that it crosses in the opposite direction, as there is a single railway line between Mol and Hamont. However, if the train from Brussels is less than six minutes late, the connection must be assured. SNCB makes its staff aware of the need to comply with this instruction and will carry out more frequent checks on it. In any case, the punctuality of the IC train coming from Brussels is indeed problematic. A task force has recently been set up to solve these problems. I have the answer for you on the planned platform occupation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. That sounds really good. That is what the travellers who have to get their connection will be very happy to hear. Thank you for paying attention to their problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u59	Mr President, the problems relating to the Turnhout-Binche line are well known to you. You also referred to it in reply to the previous question. These are dramatic punctuality figures and a lot of abolished trains. For this reason, the line has been included in the B-Rech Committee for some time. During the road show on the new transport plan last year, SNCB described the line as hopeless. What is the latest state of play on this line? In the meantime, the punctuality figures are still disastrous. I have received an update from you recently and there is no improvement whatsoever. These are punctuality figures of about 60% and more than 100 abolished trains, and the year is not over. The biggest problem, which is also apparent from the figures I requested from you, concerns the piece between Brussels and Binche. SNCB acknowledged this and indicated that it wanted to reform our line Turnhout-Brussels at the next transport plan and no longer send it to Binche, so that we should not suffer from these delays. Was Turnhout-Geraardsbergen already viewed as an option? In Geraardsbergen there is in any case enough space available to turn the trains and park them in the bundle tracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u60	Mrs Van Camp, it goes without saying that the current punctuality on this line leaves something to be desired. Both SNCB and Infrastructure Manager Infrabel inform me that they are doing their utmost to reverse the current negative trend in order to meet the expectations of passengers. In an annex I give you the latest punctuality figures, from October 2018, towards Turnhout and towards Binche. The current Transport Plan 2017-2020 includes a relationship IC 11 between Binche and Turnhout. According to SNCB, the possible division of this relationship can be reviewed during the preparation of future transport plans. SNCB considers that the possibility of parking in bundle tracks, such as in Geraardsbergen, cannot be studied for an isolated relationship but should be integrated into the study of a global transport plan, in which all other relationships are known. Splitting a structural relationship, such as IC 11, can affect the other lines of the network. The Geraardsbergen-Edingen-Schaarbeek relationship belongs to the Brussels S network and is driven with Desiromaterial, unlike the current IC 11-relation Brussels-Turnhout, which at certain times needs more capacity with double deck trains. In addition, on line 123 Geraardsbergen-Edingen there is a single-track section, in particular the Overbulare tunnel, which is an important obstacle to the development of a transport plan. The timetable must be designed in such a way that it is consistent with the only rail between Herentals and Turnhout, as well as being integrated into the rest of the train traffic, in particular between Halle and Mechelen, where the demand for capacity is very high. SNCB adds that these different elements are only part of the elements to be taken into account in major changes to the transport plan, which means that SNCB is currently unable to continue the future creation of a relationship between Geraardsbergen and Turnhout within the framework of a future transport plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u61	Minister, I am delighted that you recognise the problem. I remember the first time we raised this problem when it was announced that the Turnhout-Brussels link would be switched to Binche. We warned at that time that this would be disastrous for punctuality. I am in possession of letters saying that we are only imagining it and that it would all work out. Now, the figures, which are around 60%, and the number of abandoned trains, already more than 100, show the opposite. I am glad that you recognise this and want to provide a solution. A solution for me does not necessarily have to be from a connection with the line to Geraardsbergen. In the past, I have made other proposals, for example on Halle. The objective is, if the connection to Binche is abolished, that we finally have punctual trains back. I would add that the Kempen has half a million inhabitants. That line is the only link to Brussels for the Kempen, a link which is only provided once an hour. So for us it is really very important that that train drives punctually, so that all the people who work in the capital are there quite a lot of people there too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u62	Minister, in your reply to the previous question, you said that a connection with Geraardsbergen would be difficult because of the use of other rolling stock. On the Kempense lines there are indeed different types of trains, such as, unfortunately, the M4, the so-called pig noses, although they have already been partially renovated. Sometimes we also have a Desiro train and, to a very limited extent, the M6. What changes in rolling stock can we expect on the Kempense lines, both in the short and long term, taking into account the national roll-out of the new M7 double deckers and the further renovation of the pig noses? Your predecessor confirmed at the time that the M7 double deckers would also come to the Kempen. I'd like to get that confirmation from you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that more and more renovated four-piece couples are available. In 2019, therefore, a number of Desiros on the connections Turnhout-Binche and Turnhout-Antwerp can be replaced by renovated four-piece couples. The roll-out of the M7, starting at the end of 2019, will have an impact on the global deployment of SNCB's rolling stock. For the Turnhout-Binche connection, SNCB expects to be able to deploy two additional M6 sets during peak hours in 2020, depending on the roll-out of the M7. They'll replace the M4.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u64	I am already with that, but I hope that the connection Turnhout-Binche can be replaced by a more punctual connection so that we can drive not only with newer, but also with more punctual trains to the capital and back.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u65	Mr President, Minister, in addition to the undertunnel of the consideration, the masterplan station environment Herentals also talks about obtaining parking on the other side of the tracks. At busy moments the current parking lot is full, so a relocation would be very desirable if you were to have an extension. This could also deal with traffic problems in the station environment of Herentals. I'd have liked to have gotten an update. Are there solutions in the short term to increase the capacity of the current car park? People can't get rid of their cars more and more. If we want people to use public transport, we must ensure that they can get rid of their cars at the station.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u66	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, SNCB informs me that she is not planning investment works in Herentals in her 2018-2020 investment plan. The construction of the new car park on the other hand is linked to the relocation of the other activities. In concrete terms, this area may not be available in Herentals until 2024. SNCB adds that it has already achieved a limited expansion in 2015 to address the capacity problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u67	Minister, it is a pity to hear that the site will not be available until 2024. We're gonna have to be a little patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u68	Minister, last year, Flemish Minister for Mobility Weyts restarted the studies on the undertunneling of a number of rail roads in Herentals, such as the Belgianlaan and the Poedereeseweg. This is a dossier that has been waiting for decades in Herentals and in the Kempen, given the traffic problems and the delays involved. What is the latest state of play on the re-launched studies? Are they finished? Do you know anything about that? Will the sub-tunnels be included in Infrabel's next multi-annual investment plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u69	Mrs Van Camp, the information that Infrabel has obtained from the Flemish Agency for Roads and Traffic shows that the AWV, together with the various partners involved, is currently looking at the replacement of this route by a dignified mobility alternative. Infrabel has also learned that an additional study assignment would be issued to investigate a number of variants. On request, Infrabel will, of course, cooperate fully. This project will have to be discussed during the negotiations on Infrabel's next multi-annual investment plan, taking into account the available budgetary envelope.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u71	Minister, there is a single track between Herentals and Turnhout, which ensures a minimum service with many incidents and delays. There is no room for extra rush trains. There are plans to double that trail, and I would have liked to have gotten an update.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u72	Dear colleague, the dedoublement of the railway between Herentals and Turnhout is not included in Infrabel's multiannual investment plan 2017-2020. For the preparation of the strategic multi-annual investment plan 2018-2031, which was established after the release of EUR 1 billion by the federal government, the Regions were asked to make their railway priorities known for the coming years. The doubling of the railway between Herentals and Turnhout is not part of the Flemish railway priorities, for which the Flemish Region co-finances EUR 100 million. It is therefore not included in the multi-annual strategic investment plan. For the current rail supply, the single-track line with the possibility of intersection in Tielen is sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u73	We do not have any news on Mrs Schlitz for Question No 5, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 27640. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Coninck's 27646 question will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u74	Minister, as you know, the management of SNCB is considering restructuring the information traffic agents. Not only will they be increased from 232 full-time equivalents to 165 in 2021, the management will also centralize these agents in a single headquarters per district. I would point out that field officers regret that 67 full-time equivalents are being removed, while, according to SNCB, information to travellers needs to be strengthened. They also oppose this centralization and its consequences, which they consider harmful. Indeed, in the future, traffic information agents will no longer be located in the signalling stations alongside traffic controllers since they, dependent on Infrabel, will also be centralized, but in separate places. Maintaining the presence of traffic information agents in signal booths, however, seems to be the best way to ensure a rapid and efficient transfer of information between Infrabel's traffic controllers and these agents. What some fear is that this restructuring will complicate communication on the ground, as traffic controllers will have to communicate by telephone or via a computer system tomorrow to prevent traffic information agents from disturbing. There is little understanding of the value of such a measure when one of SNCB's objectives is to improve communication with users. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. For reasons of efficient communication between traffic controllers and traffic information agents, would it not be wise to leave these agents in the signalling booths, eventually in the ten concentrated cabins? Does SNCB believe that this would improve communication to travellers? Why? Should this not simply be seen as a measure whose first objective is to achieve savings? What will be the impact of this restructuring on the budget of SNCB? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u75	My colleague, as part of the migration to the ten concentrated signal booths, the range of these signal booths will be much wider. It will be accompanied by an extension of the zones of action of the traffic controllers, which will lead to an adaptation of the scope of work of the speakers. Studies show that the consolidation of different services generates significant efficiency. SNCB informs me that it has opted to strengthen its business processes. This is why it has chosen to group the different disciplines applied in the monitoring of rail traffic in real time, including traffic info agents, into a single operational control center at district level. A SNCB interlocutor will remain present at Infrabel's concentrated signalling booth. It will take on the role of linking the relevant signal booth to the operational control center. A more efficient business process will optimize both internal and external communication. Above all, this new process will not result in staff savings but will allow a quality injection in terms of punctuality and information to travellers. SNCB informs me that its objective is to create a single operational communication chain in which all actors have the same information at the same time, so that it is communicated quickly in a comprehensible and precise way to travellers. On the basis of the digital data available, the information to travellers will ensure a fast feeding of the various information channels, including the application, the website, Twitter, communication in the station, etc. According to SNCB, the decisions in this regard are in line with those taken in most other European countries. As these measures relate to client information that is one of my priorities, I will be attentive to the results. In this context, it is my intention, in the context of the future management contract, to establish a KPI that is strictly geared to customer satisfaction in relation to the sole criterion of quality of information and communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u76	Minister, thank you for these answers. I heard you said there would be no frame reduction. This is not the information that I have at my disposal because, obviously, by 2021, more than 67 full-time equivalents will be lost. I don't think you've reassured the department. What is more, in a communication logic that is more than important, there is nothing more unpleasant, it seems to me, than waiting for a train and not knowing when it will arrive. In terms of communication, I think there is more than one problem. I also hear that you will be attentive to the results. Like you, I will be attentive to their communication because it is a question of communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u77	Minister, faced with the scourge of cable flights on railway lines, which damage the general network, create unnecessary additional costs and undermine efforts to provide quality service to users, Infrabel announced its intention to use drones to monitor its installations. However, it would appear that the implementation of this project is conditioned by a prior change in legislation. Indeed, a pilot cannot fly a drone without visual contact with the aircraft and the use of surveillance cameras is limited according to the laws currently in force, to protect the privacy of citizens. Minister, can you confirm the proposed use of drones by Infrabel? If so, could you provide us with more details on its scope and objectives? With regard to the change in legislation, had a working group been set up to find a solution? What are the current leads on the government table and your services? Finally, what is the expected deadline for Infrabel's use of the drones mentioned above?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u78	Dear colleague, there is indeed a project within Infrabel to use drones. A test was conducted on November 13 following an exemption to fly a civilian aircraft out of sight and at night. A drone equipped with a thermal camera was catapulted from a field and flew at an altitude of 150 metres above the Charleroi-Mariembourg line. The cruising speed of this electrical equipment is 50 km/h and its radius of action reaches 30 km. The aim was to demonstrate that this safe and efficient technology, already used in France, could be used mainly in the fight against cable theft, provided, of course, that legislation was changed. The main objective is to fly over rail infrastructure, particularly sensitive areas for cable flights. This involves the use of fixed wing drones at night and distances that do not allow visual contact between the pilot and the machine. It's the BVLOS. DGTA services are fully aware of the project to use drones to monitor railway lines in Belgium. The first test took place thanks to a derogation issued by DGTA and a temporary reservation of airspace around the proposed infrastructure. The continuation of the tests must be initiated by Infrabel, but the fact that flights must take place in a separate space significantly limits the use of drones to monitor railway tracks. A change in national legislation is currently not foreseen because the new European regulation will render national legislation obsolete as early as mid-2019, according to the latest information. DGTA will remain in contact with Infrabel to allow such drone flights by way of derogation from existing legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u79	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u80	Mr Minister, my question concerns the legibility of our Belgian registration plate and the impact on ANPR cameras and the irrecoverability of certain traffic offences. The figures are heading in the right direction. There is a decrease in the number of unincorporated traffic offences due to the unreadable number plate, but in 2017, 1,80 % of traffic offences were not collected by an unreadable number plate. In September 2017, the government decided that additional measures would be taken. The problems are on different levels. There is often the poor quality of the front number plate, but also certain combinations of personalised number plates, whether consciously or not, to interfere with readability. Our Belgian number plates have a color, font and syntax that are not optimized for correct identification by ANPR cameras. In the spring of 2018, you and Minister Jambon ordered a study from VIAS to see what can be done to address these problems. Minister, have you received the study of the VIAS? Is there anything you can tell us about that? What are the main lines of this study? The end of this reign is coming. A few months is short to get something realized here. If measures are proposed, do you think it will still be feasible to implement them? Is there a budget for that? If you have not received the study, will you send a reminder to the VIAS? When will the study begin? The provisional figures for 2018 show a further decrease in the number of traffic offences not collected. Is that trend continuing? In the meantime, have provisional or permanent measures been taken pending the study?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u81	The study on the legibility of the Belgian registration plates by the ANPR cameras has not yet been completed. The VIAS has already had a meeting with suppliers of ANPR solutions and with specialised police officers in this area with a view to formulating global recommendations. In addition, the VIAS has decided to carry out a test to determine the extent to which the registration plates are recognised, taking into account the problems reported by the police. More than 80 license plates will be tested, taking into account font combinations that cause problems, with colour combinations, with different fonts and with a production process. The organisation of the test took more time, because VIAS was not allowed to drive the fake license plates on public roads. For more relevance, I wanted the test to be carried out in real conditions. With the support of the police zone of Antwerp, a solution could be found. In December 2018, the VIAS may start carrying out the test on a road that is privatised and equipped with ANPR cameras for the duration of the test. I expect a first vision of the study at the beginning of December 2018. However, the final version of the test in real conditions will not be available until the end of December 2018. The contract with the VIAS stipulated that the study was expected in the fourth quarter of 2018. We assume that this clause will be respected. However, as indicated in the protocol with the VIAS, the study should then be reviewed by the FPS Mobility and Transport, making the final results normally available by the end of January 2019. I do not have any figures on the number of unincorporated traffic offences caused by an unreadable number plate. Maybe the police have those numbers. I prefer to wait for the results of the study before taking any action.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u82	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your very interesting answer, which indicates that the test must indeed be carried out in real conditions. In this way, the recommendations can also be the most concrete, including for us here in Parliament. If there is anything else we want to do with these recommendations, you will certainly have our support. We have to go with the technology. When ANPR cameras are difficult to read number plates, it is indeed better to find out what that is and to tackle the problem effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u83	Mr President, Minister, asked in a written parliamentary question on the supervision of new mobility devices which are increasingly appearing on roads, like, for example, gyropods, hoverboards and other electric scooters, you told me that they have their full place in the plural intermodal offer of means of locomotion. However, you said that "in order to ensure that these new mobility devices have a fair place among other road users, care must be taken to ensure that the regulations are in line with the reality of the field. The composition of the working group to consider this issue is under consideration. Moreover, the European vehicle regulations – an area for which I am competent at Belgian level – exclude these moving vehicles. They are in fact considered to be "machines", an area for which the Minister of Economy is competent. It is therefore in cooperation with him that the working group should be set up, especially since it is also competent for insurance. The first meeting of this working group will take place after the summer." Minister, what is the state of play in thinking about the management of these new mobility devices? What is the current status of the work of the working group referred to? What recommendations, if any, have been made to you and your colleague in charge of the Economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 2.15.2 of the Road Traffic Code defines motorized displacement equipment as a motor vehicle with one wheel or more whose maximum speed is by construction limited to 18 km/h. In cases where the speed is greater than 18 km/h, it is not motorized; vehicles of this type are prohibited on the public road as expressly provided for in section 59.6 of the Road Traffic Code. However, in order to harmonize with the regulations on electric bicycles, the draft new Road Code envisages raising this limit to 25 km/h, which will also be more in line with the technical specifications of the equipment currently available on the market. The use of motorized displacement equipment is governed by the Royal Decree of 13 February 2007 on displacement equipment. Users of moving vehicles moving on the public road without exceeding the pace of the step are treated as pedestrians and those moving faster than the pace of the step are treated as cyclists. In addition, during the recent SPF Economy campaign on the visibility of cyclists, carried out in collaboration with the SPF Mobility and Transport, the rules on lighting to be used by users of displacement equipment were recalled. Finally, the European rules on vehicles in the field for which I am competent at Belgian level exclude these moving machinery from its scope. These are indeed regarded as machines, an area for which the Minister of Economy is competent. I therefore invite you to question the latter with regard to the rest of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u85	Thank you for those answers, Minister. I will, of course, ask the Minister of Economy about this. It is true that the question of these new devices arises, in connection with their growing development. It is enough to see, even in the vicinity of this Parliament, the proliferation of self-service electric scooters, which raises a number of questions. The circulation of this type of equipment is likely to be best controlled. I thank you and will be attentive to the development of this dossier in consultation, of course, with your colleague the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u86	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Devin's 27744, 27745 and 27446 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u87	Minister, last week a train left the station of Haaltert without a train attendant. The conductor stayed behind on the platform, the train got blocked and stopped at Ede's next station. According to SNCB's spokesman, this incident caused quite a delay. I have some questions for you on this. Could you give me some explanation about this incident? How many hours of delay has this particular case caused on our rail network? How many times has it happened that a conductor stayed at a station while the train left? How many times has this happened in 2017? Mr Minister, could you also explain to me the departure procedures of our trains and the communication that will then take place between the train manager and the driver? Finally, do you believe that this procedure is safe or should this procedure be revised and adjusted to ensure that such situations do not occur in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u88	Mr President, as Mr Laurent Devin introduced a joint question, I will answer in French and Dutch. The two incidents have some common features: type of equipment concerned, origin and destination. Investigations into these incidents are ongoing. SNCB already has the following information. The November 11 incident was the result of a failure to open the doors and, above all, the unauthorized operation of emergency openings by a third party. November 20 was caused by the closure of the defective doors. However, it should be noted that they closed automatically when the train reached the speed of 5 km/h. It's a security device. The equipment in question has arrived at the end of its life and is devoid of all the equipment and safety conditions which benefit the more recent equipment: information of the driver or interruption of traction in case of an open door. In the short term, a technical inspection of the operation of the doors should prevent such incidents from occurring again. On 20 November, the train number E8952 in Haaltert departs at 4.28 p.m. without train escort. The train guide informs passengers that not all doors are closed and that he is not on the train. I have here with me the measures that have been taken as an annex to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll take a look at the additional information. In any case, we must do everything we can to ensure that such situations are not repeated. Not only the safety of passengers, but also that of staff is important. We will await the investigation of the incident; the procedure and the technical requirements must be examined.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u90	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Devin's 27749, 27750 and 27551 are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u91	Minister, my two questions relate to the December 2 climate event. Things have moved since my question was tabled. The reactions generated by the good news from SNCB show that this affects many people. Last November 23 – only on that day – the SNCB offered a round-trip ticket at 5 euros for the Black Friday, a consumerist operation so as not to qualify it otherwise. This ticket, bought last Friday, can be used until December 14. On the other hand, when users ask if there will be a special prize of 5 euros for the climate event of 2 December, for which tens of thousands of people are announced, the SNCB replies that on that day, on a Sunday, the price of the usual ticket will be reduced by 50 %. To encourage trade, the ticket is 5 euros, but to promote less polluting public transport in favour of action against climate change, it is 50% of the usual price, which means for most travellers, a much higher rate. Some people tried on Friday to buy their ticket for December 2, but - you are probably informed - SNCB's computer systems did not support the request. Moreover, these tickets would have been included in the Black Friday ticket action and not in a hypothetical Change Climate ticket. This obviously has a completely different meaning. It is all the more worrying that those who, like me, will take part in the demonstration on Sunday, are convinced of the urgent need to strengthen public transport in order to combat climate disruption and are therefore your main allies, as well as those of SNCB, in order to improve the situation of rail and public transport in general. Minister, what has been put in place in terms of strengthening service and tariffs for the climate event this December 2nd? Are you ready – I think you have – to intervene with SBNCB to obtain a general reinforcement of the offer of trains and to obtain a special tariff offer, such as the aforementioned five-euro banknotes? I could also ask you about SNCB's event rate offer policy. My second question concerned the situation of the lines under construction on the weekend, in particular the line 162 between Ciney and Namur, where a bus service is planned, which increases the difficulties associated with mass passenger transport which would go to the Sunday demonstration. Has SNCB planned anything, an interruption of work to allow trains to operate or a reinforcement of buses? I think I know that there is a similar problem on the Mons line and perhaps elsewhere in the country. Did SNCB discuss with the organizers of the event in order to propose the most suitable transport offer this Sunday at this important event?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of my term of office, I stress the importance of a change in the modes of transport, from a shift from the car to more sustainable modes such as public transport, bicycles and the new vehicles we have just talked about. This change will only occur if the population operates a modal shift, a change of mentality necessary to reduce the impact of mobility on the environment, on pollution, on health, but also to reduce the lines on the roads and the stress resulting from it. To do so, it must be offered an adequate rail or public transport offer. This necessary change of mindset in transport is part of the philosophy of the march of this Sunday and, more broadly, of the COP24. I have therefore suggested to SNCB that it set up a special ticket for this event, the green ticket, as it does for 21 July or for trade union demonstrations. SNCB informed me that from Friday 30 November it would offer a green ticket at a price of 5 euros a round trip, valid on Sunday 2 December and usable on its entire network in the second class. SNCB tells us that, within the framework of COP24, it wishes to accompany the transition to clean and sustainable mobility. Thanks to its rail offer, it contributes to further reducing CO2 emissions from passengers who choose the train to travel. I think it is also the role of a public transport company to register as a leading player in a reflection that directly concerns it. With regard to the work between Ciney and Namur, Infrabel informs me that a total cut-off is planned on the weekend from 1 to 2 December to carry out railway infrastructure works at Courrières and Assesse. SNCB explains that it informed the organisation Claims for Climate of this work on 20 November. The Commission informed the Commission that it was looking for alternatives, since the total journey time would be too long for the passengers concerned. Various other total night cuts are planned until the end of February 2019 on the renovation work of the Arlon and Ciney stations, the Ciney-Hatrival section, the modernization work of the Louvain-la-Neuve - Namur section, the work related to the changeover 25,000 volts North, the Namur-Hatrival sections. In conclusion, Mr Gilkinet, the Green Ticket, yes; I hope that the computer system will bear the burden. Not all the elements have yet been identified. Another phenomenon occurred on Friday, 23. Finally, as far as the Ciney-Namur junction is concerned, we cannot ignore this necessary and indispensable work without having to reprogram everything. Infrabel is conscious and has informed "Claim the Climate", but cannot do otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u93	Minister, of course, the Green Tickets are easier to buy at the counters than those that were planned for the Black Friday action. This is probably the guarantee that their purchase will be easier. I welcome the positive and rapid reaction of the SNCB, as well as your intervention, in response to our request and that of thousands of Belgians who will go to the Climate march on Sunday. This is the least of all given the convergence of the struggles to safeguard our climate and for quality public transport throughout the country. I hope that the train offer will be adapted for the occasion and that the SNCB is aware of a perhaps abnormal influx of passengers for a Sunday. This should encourage the Commission to review its long-distance pricing policy. Luxembourg friends asked me about the offer of trains on Sundays.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u94	SNCB can be questioned about the difficulties encountered on Sundays with the offer of trains. When there is a trade union demonstration and the supply of trains is increased, we know in advance the number of people who will take the train, by area. Unions make joint purchases. For the National Day, in previous years, there has been a decline, knowing the importance of the number of people travelling to Brussels. Here, SNCB asks me where and how many people will come from. The difficulty is there. The message that needs to be conveyed is that we need first indications of the provenance of thousands of people. It's a first thing. Secondly, it is prudent to say that not everyone will take the same train to arrive at 2 p.m. in Brussels-Schuman. I know the weather will be an important parameter. If it rains, people will come at the last minute. If it's beautiful, maybe they'll come one or two hours early. I still want to take a number of precautions in this regard, knowing that the supply of trains exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u95	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I encourage SNCB to engage with the organizers of the event in an attempt to assess passenger flows. I think the organizers are asking for it. More generally, I hope that this will encourage SNCB to reflect on its pricing policy for relatively long distances. On a Sunday, you will offer a free course of 5 euros. It seems to me that it is an encouragement to try the train for those who do not do it naturally. I take it every day and it's a pleasure. It is essential to attract a new audience. The demonstrations are an opportunity to do so, although here, as a whole, it is a question of conviction. It is obviously essential for the climate that the train compete with other more polluting types of transport. In any case, I would like to stress your personal commitment and interest in this question which I have asked you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-28-54-commissie-ic1004x.u96	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Kir and Mr 27797 have been withdrawn. The other questions that were not dealt with today are moving to a next committee meeting.
