ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Committee on Defence, with an extra warm welcome for those who have interrupted their leave to be here. A few days ago, I contacted Minister Vandeput. He said there were three reports ready, namely the report of an internal investigation, an external audit and additional information on a memo. You know that on 18 April we planned a hearing with various representatives. However, the Minister wanted to inform Parliament as soon as possible and wanted to come here with these audits in order to create a context and provide an explanation. The following people are here today to explain: of course the Minister himself, General Robberecht, with regard to the internal investigation, Mrs Schoubs of the FIA with regard to external research and General Debaene, who will explain the additional information we have received on the memo. The summary of the reports will now be distributed to committee members, with the approval of those responsible for each report. They're summaries. For privacy reasons, these have been modified, in the sense that the names were removed from certain reports. In a moment you will be given the opportunity to ask why they are doing so. You should see this sitting as something extra, and not as a replacement for the committee meeting on Wednesday 18 April. This is an explanation of the audits in preparation for Wednesday's committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u2	Madam President, I welcome this important committee meeting. We asked for it. We had also written a letter to the Speaker of the House and to you asking for the prompt organization of this commission. I thank the Minister for coming to us to present these three reports, which are essential on this issue for which maximum transparency is required. Several times, we have argued for work in this direction. Unfortunately, we regret the way in which this consultation is taking place. The three reports are presented today, but we did not have these documents available before the meeting. If we wanted to have a constructive and serene debate, it would have been interesting for us to receive these texts before the committee. Far from calling into question the holding of this meeting today: we will hear what the minister, the authors of the various reports have to say to us. But it would be interesting, and we are asking formally and in writing, for an additional meeting to be held before the hearings scheduled for next Wednesday. Indeed, we will have to ask a whole series of questions during these debates and hearings. We ask for a more in-depth analysis of the documents that will be submitted to us and for an additional meeting, before Wednesday, to conduct a calm reflection on these documents. The minister is expected on Tuesday to deal with questions that will be put to him; in this context, we could allow time for debate on the various texts that are submitted to us and on what we will have heard at this committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u3	Madam President, yesterday's call to this Defence Committee by SMS surprised me. This method is not usual: it is quite exceptional! You can convene commissions in the event of an extreme emergency, if there is a threat to national security. In this case, this is not the case. I would remind you, Madam Chair, that when I requested that we meet as soon as possible, you had obstructed it. My colleague Dirk Van Mechelen had to intervene in the Defence Committee to say that the opposition's request to receive a committee date was justified. You replied that the deadline was 18 April and that it was impossible for us to meet before on the pretext that the audits took time. All of a sudden, on full parliamentary leave, this committee is convened without being able to have the documents before it, having, at the moment, only a summary of these audits. You understand that this is not a way of working for Parliament. We have a legitimate feeling that Parliament is being shaken, that the parliamentary debate is being stifled and is not taking place in good conditions. In my view, it would have been useful and normal for you to comply with the 18 April date on which we agreed and to receive the documents in advance. Because we knew that the documents were ready because they were already circulating in part of the press, the newspaper De Morgen having a copy. Parliament does not have them, but some newspapers have them! Today, we are having a debate without these documents that would have allowed a useful debate. In all honesty, these ways of working and convoking parliamentarians are not acceptable, Madam Chair. We are here and we will hear the people you wanted us to hear, but the real debate will take place later, as soon as possible, on 18 April, as planned, so that these audits can be exploited in depth. I am also surprised that a document from the US Air Force will be presented to us. We didn't ask. The US Air Force is a party to the contract and the future purchase of a combat aircraft. The situation is special. I do not understand very well why this document is involved in the audit exercise in which we are involved and that we have asked in accordance with the democratic debate but not in those circumstances. You know that this issue calls for transparency and the role of Parliament. The way you conduct the debates does not make it possible to be completely reassured about these fundamental principles for our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u4	Madam President, I know that the people who drafted these reports will be interviewed, but I would like to address you not as a member of this committee but as a group leader. You know that I am not a member of this committee, but as a group leader, we are involved in various activities. I do not agree with the way you organize things. You tell us that you had contacts with the minister a few days ago to organize the work and to inform us of the arrival of these reports. It was only yesterday, 24 hours ago, that, by text messages, we received the summons of the commission. I would like to know what prevented you from informing us a few days ago, that is, just after your contact with the minister, that the reports would be available and that we could meet, for example, today. What happened to your head so as not to alert us immediately when you know very well that we are in a period of parliamentary leave? What order did you follow not to immediately warn all the groups as it should be, and as is usually done during periods of leave, via the group leaders, to say that a meeting would be organised Friday and to allow everyone to organize themselves when – as Mr Dallemagne reminded us – the agenda was initially set for next week? That's my first question. She's speaking to you and I'd like to have an answer before we go to the auditions. My second question is what prevented you or who prevented you from transmitting the reports from the moment the summons left. Why has it not been possible for our colleagues to take the time to read these reports or summaries of reports to be properly equipped and to participate here in the committee hearing not only to hear what has been said but to have already been able to digest this information? These are two preliminary questions addressed to you, Madam Chair, and I would like to have your answers as frank and precise as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u5	Madam President, I do not want to address the Minister at this stage either, but I do want to address you and the Members of the majority. As a Parliament, we must decide what role we still see for ourselves. Do we really want to expose the missing links in the case file? Do we want to find out the truth? Or would we rather not? The method you are using indicates that you would prefer to make a seriously prepared parliamentary debate impossible. That is a pity to begin the debate. Apart from the fact that Parliament is being convened 24 hours in advance, my question to you is why we did not get the audit reports in advance so that we could have looked at them, prepared ourselves well and then asked questions to those responsible for the audit reports present here. I don't understand. That is a manoeuvre to complicate a serious parliamentary debate. However, it is your duty as chairman to facilitate a serious parliamentary debate. When I hear you like that, we are lucky enough to have a seven-page document here which summarises both audit reports. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I am now addressing you explicitly. We do have a role as a watchdog and we are now supposed to address our questions to the people present to find out the truth. There's no serious way of working. They simply want to cover it up, they want nothing to come to light. That is the only possible conclusion we can draw, unless, of course, you have the reports, I do not know. On the basis of seven pages, however, we must ask summaries in the debate questions to the people who are here. That's not serious. In the press we could also read that the four officers concerned, who were already aware of existing studies on a possible lifetime extension of the F-16s and were temporarily suspended, are again active. Even before Parliament can look at the audit reports and draw the necessary conclusions from them, the four officers who were informed and who are mentioned in e-mails stating that these studies should not be forwarded to politicians are again active, while they were involved in that mail traffic and had the opportunity to inform the political world. Madam President, members of the majority, this is the best way to close the books. I really mean that. It is yet another time that serious parliamentary control is made impossible when it comes to defence, and certainly when it comes to a purchase of EUR 3.5 billion, such as this one. That amount is taxpayers' money; that's a lot of taxpayers' money. Parliament cannot do its work on this dossier in a serious way. Madam President, I am therefore looking at you and certainly at the members of the majority. I would like them to explain how they justify the current way of working.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u6	Madam President, members of the majority, the dossier in question deserves, firstly, much better than the parliamentary debate that is taking place here today. The dossier has aroused a lot of commotion over the past few weeks and months, and much talk is being made about it in society. Secondly, it's about a billion-dollar file. We have all been paid by taxpayers to ensure that taxpayers' money is used as wisely as possible. Thirdly, one of the basic rules in a parliamentary democracy is at stake here, namely that military purchases are not decided by the army, I stress that the government, under Parliament's control, should decide. Members of the majority, for such a dossier to be dealt with in a parliamentary manner such as today's debate, I am deeply ashamed of that in your place. We haven't even started yet or we're getting a jaw blow. The four officers, who are suspected to have been aware and deliberately withheld information, will start work again on the basis of the internal and external audit, even before someone in this Parliament and in the rest of society knows about those audit reports. Madam President, I read in the press that this is done with the agreement of the hierarchy. Does that mean the CHOD, the chief of staff, or does that mean the minister? I'm really uncomfortable. I have not often felt this way in this House. For such an important file they are notified 26 hours in advance. I saw the text yesterday at 12:00. They say there's gonna be three documents. I couldn't see those documents. I was already sorry that we should wait until 2 p.m. to get those documents, but what I now find in this folder is one piece of paper. One piece of paper, that is the external audit on which the minister called to demonstrate how transparent he wants to be and that he is not satisfied with just an internal audit. There's a lot to say about that internal audit that we're about to talk about, but that external audit... we get one piece of paper. On the basis of that one sheet of paper, we should have a debate and ask questions. Madam President, I would ask for a suspension of the sitting, because the way in which the government deals with Parliament is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u7	Madam President, first of all, it is true that we agreed to start the hearings next Wednesday, 18 April, which was my proposal. The Minister had committed himself to trying to obtain the results of the internal and external audit as soon as possible and announced that this would probably be possible by 18 April. Secondly, yesterday, like you, colleagues from the opposition, we were called to this committee. This was an invitation to which we all seem to have responded enthusiastically to listen to the Minister and the two responsible for the internal and external audit. Thirdly, I assume that they will have the opportunity to explain these notes. Fourthly, I assume that the Minister will tell us shortly whether we can have full access to the audits, as usual, and that they can be consulted confidentially with the committee secretariat. Fifthly, I think that after a first round of questions today we should have the opportunity to look at these audits and to begin or not to start the debate in the course of next week. I read in the committee's agenda that we are starting work on Tuesday 17 April at 10 a.m. I assume that we will determine how we will continue and conclude the debate in a proper manner. Madam President, our group would like to thank you for the initiative. We hope to have an explanation on the content of the documents in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u8	Madam President, like many other Members of this House, I have come here on the assumption that we would eventually see the external audit, because, honestly, who still believes in the internal audit? It's been leaked into the media as well. If we are to know how it was created, then it seems to me that it is unnecessary to explain it here. So I had come for the external audit. I hear a colleague say it's just a page. Sorry, it's not even a page. It starts with: "We're caught." Then there are several paragraphs in which we simply list legislation. Then there is a paragraph with a decision. Then there's a surrealistic final sentence: "We have made recommendations." Which one? They're not in the cover. We don't know. I can understand that the right to privacy is being taken into account in the external audit, and I can understand that names are being anonymized, but that Members of Parliament are being called together in recess to give them a farce of an external audit covering a page and containing two paragraphs, I find really embarrassing of the government. How far is this going to go? Budgetary control takes place before the Easter holiday. They are explained to the press, but they do not have time to come to the Chamber. Same story here. It is announced that we will be given an external and an internal audit. Instead, we get a rag from the government with two paragraphs. Recommendations have been made. We don't even know what the recommendations are. The decision has only one sentence, albeit a long sentence of two to three lines. I find this really embarrassing for this Parliament. I would like to address my colleagues from the majority. How far will you go? How far are you going to drop your pants? She's already on your ankles. Are you going to continue to make this Parliament a spectacle? Are you going to accept, as the chairman of the largest party said, that you are sitting here for bacon and beans? This time you won't even get bacon and beans, but a leaf with which you have to put it. I would ask the Minister to transfer the external audit, possibly anonymized, to the Members of Parliament. That is the only reason why we came here today. If it were to receive such a dossier, we could perfectly wait until 18 April.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you seem to have come through the Easter days quite agitated. I'd like to say a few things. Firstly, what we are doing today is a surplus on what we had previously agreed. That's not unimportant. So this sitting does not replace what we have already agreed, but complements it. Secondly, the Minister had also said earlier that once the reports were completed, he would inform the committee. Well, today he does and we hope to get some information. Imagine the opposite. Imagine that the reports are ready but that we still continue to enjoy our Easter holiday. Well, then I can write to you on a note that people would have shouted murder and fire because the minister is taking action, that he is doing everything he knows about the report. There might already be things to read in the press, when we'd be having a great time on vacation. It is therefore a good thing that we are meeting today to get firsthand information from the authors in question. Mr Vuye, I would not be so derogatory about the authors. Thirdly, it would be a good thing if Parliament could have the report and the audit. I therefore ask you, Madam President, to make the reports available to us in confidence. We can continue to talk for hours about the procedures to be carried out, but I would like to focus on the content and give the authors and the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u10	Madam President, I am pleased to attend a committee of which I am not a member. Whatever the time of year, it's fine. Nevertheless, the origin of this case is probably a scandal. This will be the case if it is confirmed that a retention of information has taken place, in the head of important services of the army, with regard not only to the legislative but also to the executive power. I remember quite strong statements by some members who are usually members of the Defence Committee, and who have not had the opportunity to be present today, that this could not be left unanswered, and might involve the initiation of disciplinary or other procedures. Today, if some in the majority are trying Parliament and the democratic demand for transparency, it is quite unwelcome. But we have the opportunity to submit the documents which are given to us – or which are not yet – to another audit, that of the Court of Auditors. This is our body, our armed arm to verify compliance with legislation. I would like all the documents to be forwarded by our committee to the Court of Auditors so that the Court of Auditors can carry out a genuine transparency audit on them. We need it as a Parliament. It is an official supervisory body, at the service of Parliament. I therefore propose that the committee decide on the need to refer the matter to the Court of Auditors to verify compliance with the lawfulness of the entire procedure under way, whether it be this specific aspect or the procedure under way for the possible award of a contract for the acquisition of aircraft. At the very least, we will have transparency guaranteed by a body that is at the service of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u11	Madam President, I should like to avoid being redundant in relation to what some colleagues have said. I would like to make it clear that we too took note of the holding of this committee yesterday. New elements have been provided to us and I welcome the initiative taken to communicate the results of the audit to the members of the Defence Committee as a matter of priority. I would therefore like to see a first presentation of what has just been distributed to us. I understand that other documents should be made available to us in a confidential manner. My group and I wish to dispose of it. I would really like us to have this debate this afternoon. Some colleagues spoke of the possibility, later, of seeing how we could organise ourselves if certain points were not exhausted. I understand that, in addition to a timetable set for next week, we have the opportunity to organise ourselves, for example next Tuesday. I therefore propose that we consider this, but that we begin with what we have come in a very large number, Madam Chair, namely the presentation of internal audits.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my group also received a text message from the committee yesterday. We agreed that we would hold a hearing on this issue on 18 April. My group made it very clear in the debates that the results of this audit should be discussed in Parliament as soon as possible. We will now have a first reading of this audit, internal research and results. We're looking forward to it. It is also necessary for us to have access to the full research report in order to be able to carry out our duties as Members of Parliament. After all, we must be able to carry out our audit mission properly. I therefore propose that we now proceed to the presentation of the results of the audit. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a start for my group. This means that we can and must continue the debate after hearing the results. Our group is naturally pleased that the committee is now getting information on the initial results of the investigation. We look forward to the explanations of those involved and the Minister. Then we can continue the debate. This debate is a start for us. We can continue to do so in a calm and thorough manner next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u13	Colleagues, some of the questions I have been asked have already been answered, but I will go into them briefly. The hearing was indeed scheduled for April 18th. However, the audits, the investigations and the additional study were completed earlier. Should I have waited until Wednesday 18 April to hold the hearing, there would have been a very different debate here. It would then have been said that it had been known for a week that the audits had been completed, but that it was only now that we came to Parliament with them. It would have been said that this was unworthy of a democracy and that it would have been too small. That is why I decided to convene our committee as soon as possible. We have distributed a summary of the audit. This is explained and explained today. There is no better and more serious preparation. I repeat that this committee meeting is not an alternative to the committee meeting on Wednesday 18 April. This meeting is an additional opportunity to listen to the explanatory notes to the audits and to study them throughout the weekend in order to be able to ask questions on Wednesday. Mr Van Mechelen mentioned that there was a settlement of the work on Tuesday, on which we could discuss the work further. I propose, as several colleagues have already said, that we move from the procedure to the substance. Those responsible for the various audits are present here. You can also ask them why a summary has now been distributed and whether the information will be made public to the committee members in any other way.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u14	Madam President, as several colleagues have pointed out, this is an important issue that deserves to be communicated to us as a whole, as well as full transparency. The N-VA wishes to present itself as the party of good governance. Such a dossier is an opportunity for her to show us this by setting the right example. If the witnesses present here are indeed to be heard, I would like to reiterate my request, namely to have all the documents available and not just a summary such as the one that was quickly covered. It is important for parliamentarians that we have access to all documents in order to form an opinion. It is not with these seven sheets of paper that we will be convinced that we have nothing to hide in this matter. If the government does not have to complain that it is transparent and that it is handing over all the documents to this Parliament! In addition, a commission on the subject is scheduled on Wednesday, 18 April, with 30 people to audition on one day. It is essential that, before we proceed with these hearings, we have a debate on the basis of what has been said to us today, but also on the basis of what we will learn when we read all the reports that have been transmitted to us. Madam President, I would ask you once again to hold a meeting. A commission is scheduled with the Minister of Defence on Tuesday. In my view, the items on the agenda can be postponed. I repeat that before the hearings scheduled for Wednesday, it is important that we have a debate that will be impossible to conduct today, since we do not have all the documents. In order to carry out serious work, I therefore propose that you hear the authors of the reports, that all the dossiers be communicated to us, and that you have a debate before next Wednesday, that is, Tuesday, on what has been said and on all the documents which, I hope, have been transmitted to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u15	Madam President, I do not want to prolong the procedural debate unnecessarily. Everyone who has heard me understands that I feel humiliated to the depths of my parliamentary soul by the way in which this dossier is dealt with here. I have one question, Madam President; if I do not receive an answer, I ask for a suspension. Will I be able to bring home at the end of the meeting the full internal and external audit reports and also the information from the US Air Force to study them thoroughly over the weekend? Then next Tuesday I will be able to count on the opportunity to be informed with the Minister and with the ladies and gentlemen present here to hold a debate on the undoubtedly most important military purchase dossier of the first half of this century, with a huge budgetary impact. It is our fucking duty, as representatives of the taxpayer, to ask for full transparency on this. I remember very well that Thursday afternoon when the Prime Minister gave a solemn address to the Chamber and assured that Parliament was entitled to all the information and that Parliament should be able to play its full role in the dossier. Well, what I've been through here yesterday and today runs counter to that Prime Minister's promise. If I do not get an answer to my question about getting the documents with me tonight, I will ask for a vote on the suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u16	Mr van der Maelen, you do not want to prolong the procedure unnecessarily and you want to have an answer to the question of whether you will receive the audits and to what extent they will be released. I have said it a number of times that those who can take care of the content are here. If we now stop the procedure and proceed to the debate, they will answer your questions, Mr Van der Maelen.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u17	You're chairman of the committee. You are expected to be vigilant about the right to information and about the right of everyone outside to full transparency in a file that is causing enormous turmoil in society. The outside world is also entitled to information on what is going on here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u18	Madam President, we will not prolong the debate unnecessarily, but I am a little disappointed by your reply. Your response to the matter just now was complete, and it bothers me that you are trying to give the impression here that the members of the opposition are not prepared to come together during the Easter recess. That's not right. I have not heard anyone here say that they are not prepared to come to Parliament today. However, you have given that impression, and I am deeply disturbed by it. We have asked, Madam President, to come together in a well prepared manner, so with the audit reports in our possession so that we can at least prepare ourselves for today's debate. That is not the case now. We are going to have a thin seven-page bundle here, and that is what we have to do. When I hear some members of the majority, perhaps we should ask the Minister if we can get the full audit reports and be satisfied even if the Minister agrees. I don't accept that! This is a charade. Your answers and those of members of the majority show that all the majority parties are very willing to participate in this. There are Members of Parliament with years of experience here and they are being sidelined, willingly, like a lamb. They fall out of their role of watchdog who should actually be a decent, serious parliament, especially when it comes to a billion-dollar purchase, like here in the replacement of the F-16s.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u19	Madam President, my reaction is the same. I can't accept you saying that we would have blamed you for keeping the file under your arm if you had waited a few more days. You kept it under your arm. The internal audit has been ready since the end of March. We know from the press that he's ready. It's never been communicated to us. It's April 13. It's been 15 days. We could wait three more days. We're used to this kind of manipulation and dungeon. Secondly, you tell us that this is a summary in which the names have been deleted. It's amazing. The external audit is half a page long. It is neither signed nor dated. We don't know who wrote this. Is it the government? I'm asking you who wrote this note. It is neither signed nor dated, and it is contained in a paragraph. This is what you call the summary of an external audit whose names would have been crossed to anonymize it. That's what we're being sold as an audit summary! That's what you sold us a quarter of an hour ago, like an audit summary! Since you are not listening to the opposition, I reiterate the request of a Member of your majority. Mr. Van Mechelen asked if we could at least consult these audits, with due regard for confidentiality, at the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u20	That has been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u21	I didn't hear the president say it. That has not been said. I'm sorry, but that wasn't said. I would like to know if we can consult these audits. Perhaps that has been said to you, in the MR Group, but in the committee, that has not been said to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u22	Mr Dallemagne, the external audit report will be available for consultation in the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u23	No, the audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u24	Ja, external audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u25	What about the internal audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u26	Everything at our disposal will be in the secretariat of the Defence Commission. Everything will be available there on Monday morning and can then be looked at by Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u27	Do you already have them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u28	Mr Dallemagne, I do not have those documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u29	Yet they exist. You don't have them as chair of the commission, but they're moving around. They've been in government possession for about two weeks and we still don't have them!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u30	The documents are available...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u31	That is an observation, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u32	Mr Dallemagne, I am no more than you, because I will also have those documents available to the committee secretariat, where I will read them. From Monday morning they will be available. I'm gonna take a look at it myself from start to finish. Nor do I now have the documents at my disposal. Soon we will listen to those who have made the reports. You can ask them why we are doing this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u33	Madam President, I would like to know whether all Members agree that we should consult this document in a so-called darkroom. If Members of the majority agree, that is their responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u34	Mr van der Maelen, it is not unusual for a document containing many names to be consulted on the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u35	Madam President, I propose that we vote on this method of working. I want transparency in this dossier. I do not accept that the internal and external audit should only be made available to Members of Parliament in a darkroom. Society and Parliament have the right to take full advantage of these documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u36	Madam President, as one of the last survivors of the Committee of Inquiry into Army Purchases in the early 1990s, I would like to remind you that at that time Parliament was allowed to look at all the documents provided by the Defence Department in a room in the Chamber's buildings. Given the privacy, that viewing took place under supervision. We were not entitled to copies, but we were entitled to take notes as much as we wanted. I can assure you that I made a lot of notes back then. That took me hours of work back then. I do not accept the accusation that we, the majority MEPs, do not want to know the full truth. I'd like to know that one. The past has learned that it is no harm to inform us as much as possible, especially about such an important purchase decision. We can have another two hours of a procedural debate here. However, I would now like to hear the Minister and the auditors speak and give them the explanation. Then I would like to comment on Mr Van der Maelen's proposal to suspend the sitting for 15 minutes, and then decide how we will proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u37	Madam Chair, there is nothing in your answer that justifies the fact that the deadline for convening the meeting was no more than 24 hours. Why didn't you immediately warn us that a meeting was planned for Friday? Why did you wait yesterday to do it? Secondly, I do not understand the value and usefulness of having access to the complete documents only after the weekend, in three days' time. Indeed, they are essential for parliamentarians to develop relevant questions and opinions in the debate that we need to conduct. I do not see why what will be possible on Monday would not already be possible today or would not have been possible yesterday. I don't understand. If these documents will be available to us from Monday, as we are now guaranteed, why didn't we get them from yesterday, to be better equipped? I don't understand. Or this situation hides a purpose, a lack of respect for parliamentarians and a willingness to do so. But, as we have already observed in the previous stages of this dossier, everything that is built apart from the transparency necessary to conduct a real democratic debate serves even those who have a different objective than us. Madam President, it is only when we have access to all the documents that a real debate can take place. If you want to go to the hearings, tell us concretely and clearly how the work will be organised. The aim is that, within the shortest possible time, we will have this real debate, after all the parliamentarians concerned have been able to read all the documents, and not any summaries, of part or a few sheets of the document made available in a Chamber of Parliament. When are you going to organize the in-depth debate? I do not wish to receive the announcement by SMS. I would like the work to be carried out in a clear, clear and transparent manner for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u38	This is not my habit, but I would still like to express my disagreement. Indeed, I don't like Mr. Van der Maelen, who is chairman of the Committee on External Relations and with whom I work, feels humiliated. I don't like that. Secondly, I don't like when Mr. Dallemagne I like, too, makes movies. I'll explain. I believe that parliamentarians, and especially opposition parliamentarians, often complain when the press announces the content of documents before they arrive in Parliament. A few leaks have already taken place. In fact, when we have the opportunity to have the information for parliamentarians, whether it be through a synthesis, through the presentations that will take place and through the documents that will be made available to parliamentarians in the Secretariat of Parliament, I think we are at the earliest possible stage, if I may say so, of information. I have nothing against the press. That's the opposite! But I think it is normal that it is the parliamentarians who have the first chance. The higher we are, the better. On the other hand, you said, Madam President, rightly – and other members of the majority have said so – that this is a first step. We're not closing the case with today's meeting. There will be further debate on this subject on the basis of reading the complete documents, dear friends Ecolo and PS! Therefore, it is not at all a capture of the opposition or the majority or anyone else. It's a first step. I think that's an important point. Thank you, Madam President and Minister, for this meeting, because, after all, we are parliamentarians all the time, not just during the ordinary time of Parliament. It is not necessary, Mr Dallemagne, that there should be a particular crisis if Parliament is to be brought together during parliamentary holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u39	Madam President, I also have a number of comments to make on what I hear you say. An audit is normally a written report dated and signed. An explanation of an audit is an explanation of a written report. I do not have that written report, so I have to believe what I am told as a Member of Parliament. I can't ask questions based on the audit, because I don't have the audit. I have a summary, so to speak, which is not a summary because there is hardly anything in it. As a Member of Parliament, therefore, I am obliged to accept what is being explained. Excuse me, but I'm not calling that an audit explanation; I'm calling that a press conference. This is just a press conference, that's something completely different. I already know the internal audit. It's already been leaked to De Morgen. So I don't really care about all that information anymore, because I already have them. I would also like to add that this information was in some respects unheard of. I would therefore like to know who drew up that document containing the summary which is not a summary of the external audit? If this has been drawn up effectively by the body that carried out the external audit, then I am really asking myself about the functioning of that body. I am asking myself a lot of questions about the functioning of a body which normally works properly in a democracy, which has been appointed to conduct an external audit and which then comes to Parliament with what we were given here as a summary. I am really asking myself a lot of questions about how that body works, because that really is not possible. This is a real laugh with the Members of Parliament. What is the point of having an explanation today that we will not see the audit until after the weekend and that we will perhaps have all kinds of questions that are bubbling up from the audit and that we have not been able to ask here? So today we have a kind of press conference between the Minister and the auditors, and we, as Members of Parliament, can listen to this. Perhaps you would have liked to have called the press together for a communication, as with budgetary control, and we would have read it in the newspaper tomorrow, as we have already read all about the internal audit in the newspaper. However, I do not understand the usefulness and importance of an explanation today of a document that we do not have and that we have not been able to read. That's just not a methodology. That is not a way of working, and certainly not for a parliament. I really wonder what could happen here in the Dutch House of Representatives. That is a very rhetorical question because I assure you this will not happen there. I wonder if this could happen in the Assemblée nationale in France. That too is a rhetorical question, because that is not going to happen there either. That only happens here in Belgium. Here Parliament is simply being completely pushed aside. It is really embarrassing, the summary that we Members of Parliament get here. This is really the low point of the legislature, although a lot has already happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u40	I answer the question that was asked. I was aware on Wednesday that all the reports were available. So that was the day before yesterday. Thursday, a day later, the invitation left via two emails and via text message. I think it's hard for me to move any faster. Today we have an explanation, questions can be asked and the debate can be held. If further questions are raised after that, the debate could be even more in-depth on Wednesday. On Monday, the full audit will be available to the members. I am told here that we do not see the point of the explanatory statement without waiting for the explanatory statement itself. I'm not sure I can follow that. I propose that we proceed to the explanatory statement. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, three weeks ago, we were confronted with a document which an opposition party claimed would show that our F-16s could suddenly fly much longer than the 8 000 hours foreseen without any significant cost. I will not repeat all the accusations that were made at that time, but I would like to tell you that it is time to stop. I made a number of commitments at the committee meeting which you convened ad hoc on the same day. First of all, I would have an internal investigation. Secondly, I would have an external audit run simultaneously with the federal internal audit. Thirdly, I would ask for more clarity and explanation regarding Lockheed Martin's memo about the force structure projection, read the theoretical study on the metal fatigue of the F-16s. At that time, in the context of maximum transparency, I promised to communicate the results of these various initiatives to Parliament as soon as possible. At the same time, this committee decided to hold a hearing on 18 April with many people involved in this dossier. I've had the various reports since Wednesday afternoon. I asked the chairman of the committee, out of respect for this Parliament, to share this information with Parliament as soon as possible. The convening of the committee has indeed taken place on my question, but not, as I have to hear again this morning and now, out of disrespect for Parliament, quite the contrary. You cannot say the two things, Mr Vuye. Either there's a press conference or there's a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u43	Then what are you doing here? Are you from the press, perhaps? In addition to these elements that drive my approach today, on the basis of the information available to me, I asked those who had decided to stay temporarily at home so as not to interfere with the proper conduct of the audit and the internal investigation to return to work as soon as possible. In view of the interest in this matter, this measure was soon to be known and I would again have been accused of notifying the media before Parliament. I heard on the radio that, according to the opposition, this is also not the right way to proceed. I don't think anything will ever be enough for the opposition. Life as it is, we could say. With regard to making the various reports available to Parliament, I note that the various reports bear different classifications which are understandable. This goes from "confidential' to "official use only' as regards the SPO document. There are good explanations for this. Unlike members of the opposition who think they can just launch names and make accusations against individuals, responsible policy makers and researchers behave according to a certain deontology. They are therefore reports which contain specific names and elements which form part of privacy. The report of the F-16 System Program Office (SPO) contains a whole bunch of operational information that cannot be made public. The reports will therefore not be made public as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, it is easy to say that there has been no transparency and no debate on the dossier. I challenge you to ask the parliamentary documents of questions, answers, discussions and representations given in the context of the replacement of the F-16 members. These are two class folders, if the pages are printed unilaterally. That's a classerap that just doesn't close when those pages are printed two-sidedly. In the context of maximum transparency, which is my own, I propose the following. Firstly, summaries of the various reports have been distributed today. These summaries were produced by the various authors, namely the internal research and external audit by the researchers and the summary of the report of the System Program Office by the DG MR of Defence. The summaries of those reports have been distributed today and have not been classified. By the way, I've seen that they're already circulating on social media. In addition, the underlying reports will be available as soon as pragmatic and practical as possible next Monday morning to the secretariat of the committee for a confidential title as is customary in this Parliament. You know that photocopies or photographs are not allowed, notes of course. At that time, you will be able to make sure, individually, that the summaries distributed today are a true reflection of the effective investigation. I will give you a brief introduction, then Lieutenant General Robberecht, Inspector General Schoubs of the Federal Internal Audit Service, and Lieutenant General Debaene, will speak to explain their respective results. I would also like to say a few words about Lockheed Martin's famous memo about the force structure projection. Over the past few weeks, I have found that quite a lot of people have dared to call themselves defence experts and even technical defence experts and have spoken out on technical details. On the basis of their knowledge, they have decided that the F-16s can fly longer and make more than 8 000 hours at no cost. I have told you in the past, like the Prime Minister, that we want to turn the last stone on this information and therefore take the actions we have taken. In the documents with additional information we received regarding Lockheed Martin's memo about the body of our F-16s, a number of things are confirmed in black and white. In order to think about how much longer can be flown than the 8,000 actual flying hours, 90% of the air data must be recorded throughout the lifetime of our aircraft. Since 2006, we have been able to record data on 27 of our 54 devices. Specifically, we have 16 measuring devices. You can make the sum of what number of our fleet we have had specific information about since 2006. In addition, the question of who will certify the airworthiness of an aircraft, who will say it is airworthy from the eight thousand and first hour. I would point out that with regard to the airworthiness of the F-16s today, the only guarantee we have comes from Lockheed Martin himself. It's at 8,000 actual flying hours. Despite all the theoretical models, we will have to do it ourselves after 8 000 hours. I wonder who will take that responsibility. Who will take responsibility for determining the airworthiness of the aircraft against the manufacturer and the operating office? So, first of all, we don't have the data today. We cannot even collect the data for the period before 2006. We could equip every device today with measuring devices, but we will never be able to collect the data of the past. In fact, once again, the model is only applicable in theory, not in practice. There has also been a discussion in the media regarding free of charge, being free of extra hours of flying. We can then discuss amounts for a very long time, but I would like to quote one sentence from the report that you will be able to see once it is available. I quote: "Extending the fleetlife beyond the milestone" here is the 8 000 hrs "would require significant investment and time in the program and would introduce additional risk into the BAF's" Belgian Air Force "operations and maintenance procedures." Colleagues, that's what it's really said. It is reported that the radar needs to be replaced in order to perform further air operations in a more than immediate future but that at that time the avionics are not satisfactory. The mission computer is at its maximum capacity and will need to be upgraded, but for that the displays will have to be adjusted. In order to adjust the displays, it appears that the generators would not be able to supply enough electricity. We do not yet talk about the normal replacement of landing gear, hydraulics, flight control systems or ejector seats, things that should be replaced after so much time. On the basis of the indications we have today and a sum of all these costs, it can be concluded that we are indeed not far from the amounts that I myself had brought together to the government in my information note at the time and on the basis of which the government decided at that time to replace the F-16s with new air combat capacity. A free extension, which some here want to make appear, is not a viable thing. That's just not true. I could support you on the operational usability of our devices, on how we can deploy our devices today and on how the government wishes our devices to be used. But that would lead us too far right now. By the way, Lieutenant General Debaene will be able to provide more information on this later. Colleagues, I believe that the comments we have received in the additional study "SPO's note, the memos from Lockheed Martin in April 2017 and February 2018 places where they belong. The memos are a theoretical tool to make predictions about the metal fatigue of the structure. No more than that. The data we have is not even half of our F16 fleet. Among other things, they do not guarantee air skills beyond 8 000 hours. The fact that these assessments had been made in the scarce wreath of aviation specialists for a long time now became clear after internal research and audit. It therefore seems logical to me to listen to the individual findings in a moment. From the internal investigation of Defense and the external audit, I remember the following elements. First, Lockheed Martin's memo about the force structure projection was treated as usual. There was no need to bring that information to the level of the Chief of Defence or the Minister of Defence. Secondly, the information was not manipulated. Everyone has dealt with this information within their own competence and at their own level as they should. I conclude from that that no proven professional mistakes have been made. In addition, the new information has no impact on the ongoing file of the replacement of fighter aircraft. Finally, recommendations have been made, which I took note of on Wednesday afternoon, and which we are considering today to what extent we can proceed with them. I would like to give the floor to Lieutenant General Robberecht with regard to the internal audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am Lieutenant General Henk Robberecht, responsible for the Department of Defence Inspector General. Over the next few minutes, I will give you a summary of the internal research into certain information flows within the "Manager F-16" and the "replacement programme." To avoid misunderstandings, I would point out that an internal investigation was conducted and not an internal audit. The latter is subject to very specific rules. This investigation was carried out by the Inspector General, at the request of the Chief of Defense, following suspicions about possibly knowingly withholding, within the Defence Staff, important information that might affect the course of the F-16's replacement program. The following three research questions were examined. Firstly, who requested the simulation from Lockheed Martin, in connection with the evolution of the metal fatigue of the F-16 fleet, and for what reasons? Secondly, who received the memo with results from the simulation? How did it continue to operate? Who was aware of this? Finally, who decided not to push this information further into the hierarchical or functional chain, and not to inform the Chief of Defence and/or Minister? The analysis of the available documentation and the interviews took place between 20 March and 29 March. Then the report was written. I will project a slide with the structure of DG MR, the Project Office and the various names quoted in the press, so that you can follow the presentation better. The internal research provided concrete answers to the three research questions raised. The answer to the first research question. Who requested the simulation in connection with the evolution of metal fatigue and for what reasons? After an internal analysis within the MR Systems Air Combat sub-section and with the permission of the person responsible for this sub-section, Lieutenant Colonel Decrop, the equipment manager, responsible for the structure, being Captain Hoeykens, confirms to Lockheed Martin to respond to their offer to perform a force structure projection simulation with the data of our Belgian F-16 fleet. This simulation allows the equipment manager to compare the results of the simulation of Lockheed Martin with the annual follow-up since 2006 of the ageing of the F-16 fleet through the model of the Dutch Air and Space Institute. In addition, this simulation does not generate additional costs, as it has already been budgeted in the so-called Falcon 2020 programme. The answer to the second research question. Who received the memo from the results of the simulation? How'd the operation go? Who was informed? The memo was received at the undersection MR Systems Air Combat at Lieutenant Colonel Decrop. Within this sub-section following an internal analysis leading to a decision at the level of his boss MR Systems Air Systems, Colonel Letten. The following managers were informed of the memo between 22 April 2017 and 19 May 2017: MR Systems Air Combat, MR Systems Air, MR Marchés Publics (Gen. Major Roelandts), MR CIS & Infra (Gen. Major Ocula), Air Component Commander (Gen. Major Vansina) and the Director of the Project Office (Col. Van Pee). Answer the third research question. Who decides not to send this information further into the hierarchical or functional chain and the minister and whether or not to inform the CHOD? MR Systems A, MR Marchés Publics and the Director of the Project Office decide each at their level and separately not to forward the information. This also shows that no collective decision-making has taken place at any time. No evidence was found of a deliberate maneuver to withhold information from the hierarchy. MR Systems Air considers that the results received from the simulation on the evolution of the metal fatigue of the Belgian F-16 fleet is a worthless simulation, totally unusable to justify a lifetime extension above 8 000 hours of flight time. It is not a new element and therefore not a basis for recommending a change of course. An update in February 2018 of this simulation shows the volatility and sensitivity of Lockheed Martin's mathematical model. As equipment manager, responsible for, among other things, flight safety, he shall forward that advice to MR MP, to the Director of the Project Office, to MR CSI & Infra and to the Chief of Staff of COMOPSAIR. The MR MP, Major General Roelandts, follows the advice received from the equipment manager. The application for prior agreement, signed by him, with a reference to the limit of 8 000 hours of flight time, shall remain valid and shall not be amended. He sees no need to inform the Director-General of MR of his decision. The director of the Project Office Air Combat Capacity follows the technical advice, despite serious reservations about the true nature of the intentions behind the e-mail of 10 May 2017. It therefore has no reason to question the basic points of the replacement programme. The Steering Committee Project Office Air Combat Capacity is therefore not called together. The overall conclusion is as follows. The whole problem is about the correct assessment of the value and usability of a predictive mathematical model about the evolution of the metal fatigue of the structure of the F-16 fleet. This requires a great deal of expertise in this very technical matter. MR Systems A, Colonel Letten, has the technical knowledge to make that assessment correct. No evidence was found indicating a conscious strategy of senior officers not to share information with the hierarchy. On the other hand, there is no denying that the inter-power project structures in place were not sufficiently used and that recurrent staff meetings of the inter-power staff structure did not detect this gap in the flow of information. De facto one thus fell back on a single service structure for the program to replace the F-16. In this there is the danger that only similar visions determine the direction and lack a healthy critical look, foreign to one's own power. Following the preparation of an oral parliamentary question submitted in February 2018, one of the cabinet staff of Mr. Minister, his Director Budget and MR, was verbally reminded of the existence of a document with the results of a simulation provided by Lockheed Martin, of the evolution of the F-16 metal fatigue. The unusability of the results of the simulation was also explained orally. The following recommendations were formulated in my report. When managing major purchasing programmes, it is appropriate to continue working with an interpower project structure, as is customary today within DG MR. I refer to the Project Office for the Air Combat Capacity. However, it is important to ensure that at all stages of a project the terms of reference are followed, e.g. the frequency of meetings, and that minutes of meetings are drawn up, which are then submitted to the Director-General Material Resources. In this way one de facto avoids a single-service control within a project. The flow of information within each staff department through regular staff and coordination meetings should be monitored and, where appropriate, brought to an end. Communication is an essential part of a good management of the activities within an organisation. The senior leadership should be reminded that healthy restraint and distance are demanded and expected in external contacts with national and/or international industry and national policies, especially during the acquisition phase of a new capacity. Fourthly, any military activity must be provided with information on the procedure to be followed in the event of a possible breach of integrity. This can be done through existing intranet pages, including the reference to the trusted person Integrity with the federal Ombudsman. If required, the Inspector General of Defence may serve as a contact point for reporting an integrity breach. In cooperation with the Director-General for Legal Support and the Director-General for Human Resources, it is necessary to examine how the envisaged loyalty of a military to the organization, as provided for in the regulations, can be translated into an understandable and enforceable deontological code, by any military and, more specifically, by the staff. The recommendations are designed to better manage the identified shortcomings. Madam President, so far my explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u45	Thank you for the explanation, Lieutenant General Robberecht. I give the floor to Mrs Schoubs on the external audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the committee, my name is Ann Schoubs and I am responsible for the Internal Audit Service in the federal government. The Federal Internal Audit (FIA) carries out independent internal and forensic audits of the services falling within the scope of the Royal Decree of 4 May 2016. When we talk about internal audits, it is mainly about audits relating to internal control and risk management. When it comes to forensic audits, it concerns audits relating to fraud and integrity violations. These are usually audits that also concern individuals. That is why we cannot simply make the report available to everyone and publish it freely. I hope you can understand that. The summary we have given is indeed out of our hands and merely reflects the rudimentary and brief conclusions on the findings of the audit. The global report was passed on to the Minister, who asked for the audit. The Minister has the power to decide what can be done with the report. You can understand that from our position of Federal Internal Audit, we cannot freely distribute that report. The FIA therefore acts under the supervision of the Federal Government Audit Committee. On 21 March 2018, the Ministry of Defence asked us to investigate possible integrity violations at the Ministry of Defence in the treatment and communication of information on technical aspects related to the lifetime of the current F-16 fleet. For the purposes of the concept of integrity breach, the law of 15 September 2013 shall be followed, which shall mean the assumption of an act or failure to act by a staff member, which is a breach of the laws, decisions, letters of conversion, internal rules and internal procedures, or an act or omission of an act by a staff member, who is manifest in a serious deficiency in the professional obligations or in the management of a federal administrative authority. The research we conducted was not just conducted by FIA. We have also called on an external party. This investigation was carried out in collaboration with KPMG. The research used audit techniques such as process analysis, interviews and analysis of logs and databases. The main entity involved in the audit is DG MR, in particular DG MR Systems Aero, which is responsible for the conservation of the F-16 fleet, among others. The information giving rise to the investigation concerns information obtained at the ASIP Conference (Aircraft Structural Integrity Program) of May 2016, the ASIP meetings of November 2016 and January 2018 and two memos by Lockheed Martin of April 2017 and February 2018 relating to the Force Structure Projection for the F-16. The memo at Lockheed Martin on January 2017 was requested by the material manager within DG MR Systems A, who included Lockheed Martin's offer to do a study. The information in the memo of Lockheed Martin is of a technical nature only. The information contained in the memo of April 2017 was formally treated within DG MR Systems A according to the standard approach, i.e. from the material manager to the Chief of the Office, the Chief of Combat Aircraft and the Head of DG MR Systems A. The decision not to use the information further was taken by the head of DG MR Systems A. He assessed that the information contained in Lockheed Martin's memo, even after asking for additional information, was not sufficiently technically substantiated and in that context not sufficiently relevant to have an impact on the lifetime extension of the F-16. It belongs to the responsibility and expertise of the head of DG MR Systems A to make decisions on the airworthiness of, among other things, the F-16 fleet. Other officers who were aware of the memo, including the Director ACCap, the head of DG MR Purchases, who were involved in the mail exchange between the head of DG MR Systems A and his staff member, acted in accordance with the information reported to them and respected the position and expertise of the head of DG MR Systems A in the decision-making process. In view of the fact that the information was not considered relevant by the head of DG MR Systems A and did not alter the 8 000 actual flying hours limit, it was not further disseminated within the hierarchy, either to the CHOD or to the Minister of Defence. When we look at the purchase process for the replacement of the F-16, we see that the purchase process is handled by the ACCap working group specifically set up for this purchase within DG MR. ACCap operates independently of the DG MR Systems A service responsible for the conservation of the F-16 fleet. The potential extension of the lifetime of the F-16 fleet has no impact on the award criteria nor on the assessment of the offers in the context of this purchasing process. The FIA can therefore conclude that the ongoing procurement process regarding the proper handling of public contracts, i.e. the analysis of the tenders and the assessment of the award criteria, was not affected by the information contained in Lockheed Martin's memos. In this sense, the memos have no impact on the further course of the ACCap process, nor on the timing of the process; of course, if the basic assumptions of the ACCap process, which is the certified lifetime of the 8,000 actual flying hours, are maintained. On the basis of the analyses carried out, the procedures and processes leading to the decision on the replacement of the F-16 fleet were followed. The decisions were made on the basis of the information available at that time. The governance and communication flows provide for internal and external consultations within Defence, at the divisional level, at the level of the Defence Staff, at the level of the CHOD and between the CHOD and Minister of Defence. So, when we look at the treatment of the information that has now been added, we see that decisions have been taken within DG MR Systems A, but today there are no clear criteria that determine which section-specific decisions should or should not be communicated to the hierarchy. Data considered not to be relevant at a given decision level shall not be further communicated. The investigation has thus shown that the information described above, i.e. the memos of Lockheed Martin, was followed and treated in accordance with the applicable powers, that the information under the applicable procedures should not flow to the level of the CHOD and the Minister of Defence, and that the information described above has no impact on the ongoing tender file for the replacement of the current F-16 fleet. In this respect, the Federal Internal Audit Service may decide that no act or omission of an act in breach of the laws, decisions, letters, internal rules and internal procedures was adopted for the handling of the information within the Defence Department, nor was an act or omission of an act manifesting a serious deficiency in the professional obligations or in the management of a federal administrative authority established. In this case, therefore, we are not talking about an integrity violation. However, in line with the audit process, the Federal Internal Audit has made a number of recommendations regarding the management of communication flows, which can be further addressed by the administration. These recommendations concern, among other things, the formal need for a clear position to be expressed by the Defence staff on the evaluation of the structural and operational integrity of the F-16 fleet, with a basic motivation to the policy makers. There should also be an inventory and evaluation by the General Inspection Service of the current governance and communication flows, the purpose and decision-making powers of the various consultative bodies and levels, the internal and external information and communication flows. The governance structure needs to be developed and further implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u47	Madam Chair, the note is read so quickly that even interpreters cannot translate it in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u48	I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u49	Madam, it would also be interesting if we had a copy of your note.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u50	Okay. I will repeat the recommendations. We ask for a formal, unambiguous position to be expressed by the Defence staff on the evaluation of the structural and operational integrity of the F-16 fleet and for the motivation to be put to the test by the policy-maker. The General Inspection Service should carry out an inventory and evaluation of the current governance and communication flows, the purpose and decision-making powers of the different consultative bodies and levels, internal and external information and communication flows. They must therefore be developed and further implemented within the envisaged governance structure that one wants to obtain. Furthermore, it concerns the application of regulatory delegation decisions for all information with a possible impact on the timing or basic assumptions of major ongoing procurement. In concrete terms, this means that any information directly or indirectly applicable to ongoing procurement will systematically inform and communicate to the highest authority of the delegation decision. Screening of the terms or reference of the current steering committees and the evaluation of their correct application. Equipped with the necessary procedures and processes to take appropriate action towards the decision-making process in the event of new insights in critical and ongoing dossiers. We are thinking of using technical evaluation boards and updating the business case and communicating a reasoned decision within the services concerned, as well as further clarifying internal and external communication rules, internal mail traffic guidelines and communication networks. So much for the recommendations we wish to make from the Federal Internal Audit Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u51	I now give the floor to General Debaene, who will provide additional information from the System Program Office on the memo.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the floor. I'm Lieutenant General Rudy Debaene. I am Head of the Directorate-General for Material Resources (DG MR). On the slide you will find me at the top, in the orange part. As the Minister has already pointed out, the reason for the whole discussion was the two notes by Lockheed Martin. The first one dates back to April 2017 and we also found it in the press. The second, represented by the Minister in the Defence Committee, dates from February 2018. It seemed important to us to look at what was ultimately the value of these documents and how they should be interpreted. The document you have been given is a synthesis of, on the one hand, the answers we have received from the F-16 System Program Office and, on the other hand, in italic, some comments, reservations, suggestions that we have made ourselves in order to make the whole thing a little clearer. There are three basic questions that we have put to the System Program Office. Those questions were asked on 26 March 2018, with the request to receive an answer as soon as possible. The answer came to me on Tuesday evening 10 April, late, and was passed on Tuesday evening, late, to the cabinet, so that the Minister, as he indicated, did not have that document in his possession until 11 April. The questions we have asked are as follows. Firstly, until when can we operationally deploy the Belgian F-16s? In the note we sent, we quoted a number of deployment scenarios regarding operational deployment and asked when the F-16s could be deployed, based on the two reports of Lockheed Martin, the one dated 26 April 2017 and the one dated 12 February 2018, the follow-up. Secondly, the question was asked who will certify the Belgian F-16s. In other words, who will declare them airlike or airworthy? This is again related to the new operational modes of deployment, and this up to the number of flight hours that comes from the answer to question 1. The third question that was asked is what conditions apply in order to reach the operating limits for either lifetime or flight hours. The document of the System Program Office covers two areas: on the one hand the technical lifespan and on the other hand the operational lifespan of the Belgian F-16 fleet. The memo also discusses a number of possible modifications in the context of maintaining the relevance, i.e. operational and technical relevance, and provides an estimate for this. The document clearly states that this is merely an estimate. A deeper study is needed if this is to be discussed. As regards technical lifetime, the focus of the analysis is on the structure of the F-16, with the F-16 System Program Office confirming that current fleet management is based on 8 000 actual flying hours. In this respect, our F-16s reach the proposed lifetime in the period 2023-2030. The memo also discusses a possible fleet management based on equivalent flying hours, as far as the structure is concerned, this is very important to remember; it concerns only the structure............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. A number of conditions must be met for such fleet management. All aircraft must, firstly, be equipped with an advanced recorder of a higher technicality, the so-called individual aircraft tracking system, which complies with the standard described in the ENSB09001 directive, which you will find in the synthesis. That is not the case at the moment. A second, very important element in the whole context is the development of a rigorous follow-up programme for both analysis and operation of the registered systems and data. The note also states that the implementation of the IATS on the Belgian fleet should take into account around USD 10 million in investment expenditure. However, the exact extent of the follow-up programme, as well as the possible consequences on the current maintenance concept, are not described and, if applied, further details and details are required. Moreover, the memo clearly states that, if one wants to work on the basis of effective flying hours, only advice on airworthiness is given and nothing more. The explanation we give is the following. As the Minister has also pointed out, since 2006, the fleet manager has been monitoring the health of the structure, of the bodywork of the aircraft using a FACE system, which was installed on up to 16 aircraft at the same time. As the Minister said, on our fleet of 54 aircraft, 27 aircraft are equipped with the provisions for, the facilities to obtain the data recorders. We only have 16 data recorders. If this is expressed mathematically, it means that today we can register only 20% of our F-16 fleet's flight data. Even that number of data was not available for 2006. If we look at the ENSB09001 directive on EFH, it is clear that 90% of the flight data must be recorded for the entire lifetime of the aircraft. The current system on our F-16... does not allow to record 90 % of the flight data nor does it provide the required data format. As I have already mentioned, our data recorders are of a different type and not of the sophisticated type, which is required according to the standard. Moreover, the lack of historical data remains a problem for us. The oldest aircraft we currently have in service dates back to 1983. If that device is already equipped with provisions for, then we are there with a gap of more than twenty years between 1983 and 2006 in which no data are recorded about the use. In view of all these elements and the fact that Defence does not have the technical competence, the fleet manager cannot assume responsibility for adapting fleet management to EFH. This means that no one will sign with the Belgian Defence Department to fly that plane for more than 8 000 hours of flight time. In the broader context of the technical lifetime, the memo also indicates that other systems and accessories that need to be replaced or overhauled should be taken into account. They must therefore be maintained and checked and restored at regular intervals, in particular the landing gear, flight control, actuators, ejector seat and so on. As an explanation, we state that the engine must of course also be subject to such checks and updates. So much for the comments on the technical lifespan. In a second part, the memo covers operational life and operational relevance. As described in the operational assessment of the memo, the current Belgian F-16 is capable of autonomously conducting battle missions in an operational environment with a low threat, called a besign environment. In the event of a serious threat, our F-16 cannot operate autonomously. In other words, if the deployment takes place in an operational environment with an opponent with modern resources, the current F-16 will no longer be able to independently carry out all battle missions. Even with substantial investments, the F-16 will not have the same chances of survival or operational capabilities as modern fighter aircraft. That's a literal quote from the memo obtained through SPO. The explanation we want to give is that we are constantly in a vicious circle with weapons systems: there is innovation, and if there is a renewal of the threat, then there must also be a renewal of the weapons systems. Given the proliferation and technological developments of the weapons systems, today's modern threat will be tomorrow's standard threat. So what's modern today is common news tomorrow. This will make the Belgian F-16 difficult to deploy tomorrow, even in the event of a low threat, without taking unmanageable risks. The memo of the F-16 System Program Office also provides an overview of systems that should be adapted, in particular the radar, the modular mission computer, i.e. the central computer on board the device, as well as the power generators. The Minister has already indicated that the power generators are at their maximum capacity. Each upgrade will have to lead to replacement or change of those elements. For the implementation of that modification on the Belgian fleet alone, we call that modification avionics.................................................................................................................................................................................................. It also indicates, as mentioned above, that other systems should be adapted in addition to those systems in order to remain operationally relevant. I would like to give you the following explanation. When we talk about other systems, we think about the target direction spot, which is underneath the device, the jammers on board the device and the radar detection systems. They must also be taken into account. Furthermore, of course, more modern weapon systems and upgrades of flight simulators should also be charged. We must not forget, of course, that our pilots also train in a simulator. If the device is modified, these simulators must also be followed. The decision that we can make on the basis of the answers of the F-16 System Program Office and the additional explanation I have given is as follows. With regard to structural lifetime, the memo confirms that current fleet management is based on 8 000 actual flying hours. Extending the lifespan above that Milestone would require significant investment and time and would introduce additional risks to the operation and maintenance of the weapons system. In addition, the memo states that a fleet management based on effective flying hours (EFH) could be possible under certain strict conditions. However, on the basis of the information provided, the required conditions for such fleet management cannot be met, as there is, among other things, all the historical gap in the light of the mandatory 90% registration of the data. In addition, the memo also indicates that other systems need to be adapted. It is not just the structure that needs to be adapted, but other systems need to follow. The F-16 System Program Office only provides airworthiness advice for EFH-based management. Defence does not have the technical competence read: "support" to assume that responsibility. In other words, no one in the Belgian Defence Department will sign to allow a Belgian F-16 to fly longer than 8 000 effective hours. The study also provides an estimate for the adaptation of a number of systems. Even with such substantial investments, the F-16 will not have the same chances of survival in an operational environment with integrated air defence. I advise everyone to read the document. You will find certain threats in which we would have and will have problems, if we continue to fly with the F-16. In addition, the study also indicates that other systems should also be adapted. I come to the final point in synthesis. The systems mentioned by the F-16 System Program Office can also be found in the 2015 study, which Mr Minister handed out at the meeting of the Defence Committee a few weeks ago. From the estimate we get from that new document, from the memo, we can say that the 2015 estimate is in line with the information provided from the latest document we received from the System Program Office. In other words, the estimates in the 2015 document correspond to or are in line with the estimates we have received today in that new document. The reason why the document cannot be published and is therefore not distributed here is that it explicitly describes a number of operational forms and restrictions and that we would not like them to fall into the wrong hands. Hence the importance of doing this behind closed doors, as mentioned earlier in this statement. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this concludes the synthesis I wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u53	General Debaene, thank you for your explanation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now heard several explanations. I'm gonna open a round of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u54	Madam President, first a caveat. On the basis of these synthesiss, I will give an initial response, but I will look into the dossier from Monday. Firstly, starting with the Minister and ending with what General Debaene has said, I have two things to say. The first thing is that there are no figures in the synthesis that was given to us. General Debaene spoke of a billion dollars in his speech and says that this is in line with the figures in the 2015 documents. Once again, if you do not have the documents in advance, you have to rely on your memory. In my mind, we were talking about a figure of two billion, so it is already one billion less. Secondly, the figures we read in the international press on exercises under consideration, for example in Portugal, all point to the fact that the amounts for a short extension of life are much lower by six to seven years and that the amount of one billion that is involved is for an extension of 20 years. I note that both the Minister and General Debaene are confusing this here. Then I come to the second argument. It is said that it would be technically impossible, that there are technical problems. We ask that Lockheed Martin be invited to the committee. In our view, for example, we do not have all the historical data for the other fleets whose lifespan will be extended. The argument that the absence of historical data would make it impossible is incorrect. We have been announced that information from the US Air Force would be given. I don't see much here. I immediately throw in that not only Lockheed Martin says this is possible, but even the US Air Force has the severity figures. They themselves will keep 841 of their F-16s longer in use. So there's a contradiction here, because experts contradict each other. I note that our military top is permanently on the same page: we want a renewal of our fleet. I ask the Minister and colleagues: where and when have we politically decided that our new air combat capability should allow us to operate from the first second, perhaps shoulder-to-shoulder with the United States, in highly dangerous environments. This level of ambition is far beyond our capabilities. The document also states that our F-16s will not act independently if lifespan is extended. Should a small country such as Belgium, with a small budget, have the ambition to have air combat aircraft that will operate independently in highly unsafe conditions? A little modesty would adorn us all. On 25 May we will have the evaluation of operations in Syria, but our F-16s have proven in recent months and years that they are up-to-date and meet all the challenges of a normal, acceptable level for a small Member State of NATO and of the European Union. If, of course, the level is set much higher, then the top of the army has been in control for years, then the F-35 must be bought. Ik kom tot external audit. Ma'am, did you get a framework for your investigation to take place? Did you get a time frame? Was it a certain period of time you had to vet? Secondly, have you been told to look at person X or service Y or have you been able to determine that entirely yourself? Can you also tell me on what date I am not asking for names? I was aware that there would be an internal audit and on what dates computers and mobile phones of certain persons were actually viewed? I'd like to know if there's been a certain amount of time in between. Can you give me a guarantee that the capacity deployed also allowed, on the one hand, erased and, on the other hand, possibly encrypted messages to be checked? I don't know if that exists, but are there any encrypted communication capabilities within the DOD? Did the audit service that did the investigation have the opportunity to examine that encrypted communication data? I would also like to ask specifically if you have audited the contacts between the Defense Staff and Lockheed Martin? If I look at the document on Monday, I may get an answer to that, but for me, the scope is how wide your research field was. Have you received certain restrictions or frames and frames outside your own choice? Finally, the internal audit. I'm trying to keep it short. I will be able to ask many more questions in the next round and I also respect those colleagues who still want to ask questions. I have here the synthesis of the internal audit. On page 2 there is a passage in the middle of the page that appeals to me personally. It is an important passage, and I ask Mr Robberecht to answer me. It says that, as a result of the preparation of the answer to an oral parliamentary question, a question from me which I asked on 5 February, one of the cabinet staff of the Minister of Defence, Mr Vandeput, was verbally referred to the existence of a document containing the results of a simulation provided by Lockheed Martin, of the evolution of the F-16 metal fatigue. Then, in the following sentence: "The unusability of the results of the simulation was also explained orally." I assume it was explained orally to the cabinet clerk. My conclusion from this passage is that, when I asked my question on 5 February, the Minister was aware of the existence of studies. In his reply he told me that there was no possibility of extending the lifespan of the F-16, while Lockheed Martin made it clear in the study of 12 February, a week later, that there is a possibility of extending the lifespan. In short, Minister, I have the feeling that you have not answered me truthfully at the moment. I have one more point...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u55	That is a personal fact, Mr Van der Maelen. It's been good now! I've been told a lot! I have here the report with questions and answers from the Chamber before me. In that report from the Chamber, I would have said those things to you. You won't find them! You might want to stop putting things in people's mouth and get on with it. You said that... and so on. I didn't say that! Read my answer. I shall read it to you, Mr Van der Maelen. "I have answered you several times. I can only continue to give you the same answer: with regard to the lifetime monitoring of the Belgian F-16/Block-15, the Defence Staff, in collaboration with Lockheed Martin and under the management of the US Air Force, follows the structural ageing from day to day. Analyses have been and are still being carried out to determine which structural maintenance programmes, inspections and any repairs are to be carried out in order to achieve the certified lifespan of 8 000 hours of flight." I read further in my answer: "The structural life of an aircraft can always be extended if it is provided with sufficient resources. The question to be asked here is whether our F-16s will still be relevant and operational."
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u56	My question to you, Minister, was on 5 February: are there any studies by Lockheed Martin that allow the use of aircraft to be extended over 8 000 hours? My question was: are there any studies? You referred to other studies, about maintenance and follow-up, but my question was: are there studies by Lockheed Martin that prove that it is possible to extend after 8 000 hours? From this text, I note that your cabinet was aware of the possibility of this study, and in your reply you did not tell me: yes, Mr Van der Maelen, there is a study by Lockheed Martin that allows longer flights. You didn't tell me that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u57	I didn't say she doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u58	You didn't answer me truthfully. That's my conclusion. Finally, one final question. Today it appeared that Colonel X was confronted on 22 March at a meeting at which Lieutenant General Robberecht and Lieutenant General Debaene were present. He was asked to sign a text. Colonel X has refused this. Colonel X told a newspaper that this proposal was submitted to him at the request of the minister's cabinet. Is this true? If this is true, this might be a technique that has been used to lure Colonel X into a trap. In any case, it was a clear attempt from the cabinet to evict the minister. I would therefore like to know whether there was a telephone call from the cabinet to the head of the internal investigation asking for Colonel X to sign a statement indicating that he never notified the minister or his entourage. Is this true?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u59	Madam President, I have five points I would like to discuss. Since we have not received the audit reports in advance, a serious debate is actually very difficult. I would like to make five points to you already. Firstly, as far as the reports themselves are concerned, you are protecting confidentiality, Minister. There is a rather simple solution: declassify those reports and make them confidential to Members of Parliament. In this way, we are bound by a certain degree of confidentiality, but we can still exercise our control role. These reports must not be anonymized, of course, because otherwise we cannot make links between the different figures and the people who have played a role in this. So there was indeed the possibility to declassify these reports and to pass them on to us, subject to confidentiality vis-à-vis Parliament. In this way we should not go to a room where we cannot make copies of the audit reports. Now we have to take note of a stylo in a room and perhaps we should even hand over our cell phones. This is not parliamentary control as it should be in a democracy. General Robberecht, I have some questions for you about the internal audit. There have been statements from the so-called Colonel X that we can read today. General Debaene, were you present at the interrogations, interviews, conversations that took place with the person concerned in the context of that internal audit? It is not obvious to be involved as a staff member in an internal investigation, internal audit process, and then to be confronted with his superior. Hence this question to you, General Debaene. Moreover, the parties concerned would have to sign a document stating that they had not sent emails to the minister, to the entourage, to the top. This, of course, allowed the picture to be maintained that the information on Lockheed Martin's studies had remained in rather limited circles, whereas perhaps that was not the case. Were there any reports of the discussions in the context of that internal audit? Was this transferred to the interviewee, so he could sign it? I don't know how many of you have already had a police report drawn up, but that's where it's customary. A report shall be made there and the interviewee may sign that report. Has this also been done in the context of this internal audit? Then I'll get the connection to the cabinet. Colleagues, the link with the cabinet has completely disappeared. It's out of the question. On the contrary, it goes much further, it would no longer be a problem of pure substance. So it's okay that the people at DG MR who were aware didn't pass that on, because the information, namely Lockheed Martin's studies, wasn't really relevant. The link with the cabinet has therefore completely disappeared from the field of vision. There is no evidence of that at the moment. It is, of course, just a problem that the Minister was completely unaware of all this. It is my first analysis, especially after hearing General Debaene, that the problem lies with DG MR. Colleagues, that is important. I will come back to that later. The Federal Internal Audit Service has not denied that either, and what it has done is particularly interesting. The FIA says that it was not mandatory for DG MR to pass that information on to the higher level, not to the Chief of Defence or to the Minister. Why was the DG MR not obliged to do so? The DG MR itself made the assessment and identified the information as irrelevant. There was therefore no procedural problem, but this presupposes confidence in the judgment of DG MR. If the DG MR is an island in itself that describes studies by Lockheed Martin, which are indeed important, almost automatically as irrelevant, because it does not fit into its booth and strategy to necessarily replace the F-16 with the F-35, the note that appeared a few weeks ago showed us a very serious problem. There is nothing procedurally wrong: the DG MR should not forward all this, because it considered it irrelevant. However, if that judgment is not correct, what do we do? Minister, my point concerns your responsibility. You have a department in which the DG MR makes these kinds of decisions, in a self-righteous way, without you being aware of them, because you were not aware of Lockheed Martin's studies, as you yourself said in the Chamber. You've been saying for weeks that you weren't aware of Lockheed Martin's studies. Now you say that they are not relevant, but you can only say that because they have now turned up and you rely solely on the judgment of DG MR and now, fortunately, on a new memo from the US Air Force which merely confirms that as a miraculous coincidence. That's a little too easy. It's a little too thick. So you have a very big problem in your department, Minister. Fourthly, Ecolo-Groen has never said that it wants to extend the lifespan of the F-16 species to a maximum, for example until 2035. I think we agree that 2035 is really the ultimate date, because then the support from the United States will fall and it will be very expensive and cumbersome to keep the F-16 fleet after 2035. We have never said that we want to extend the lifespan to the maximum, but that we want to know all the options and all the studies on them. If we are to believe the studies of Lockheed Martin, I shall go into them in more detail later, then it will give us extra years and there will be no more urgency to replace the F-16 and we can think about a more rational and sensible use of our taxpayers' money, including within Defence. General Debaene just said in his statement that we need the replacement of the F-16 in order to remain operational. That's what's bothering me. He did not say anything about the European dimension, the fact that there are enough fighter planes in Europe. A political analysis is being carried out here, again on the basis of inadequate information, an own perspective and an agenda of its own. Again, that disturbs me immeasurably. We in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance have always said that we want all the information to be able to study all the options and that we want to use the time that is apparently available to spend our taxpayers' money better. Mrs Schoubs of the Federal Internal Audit Service, it is true that you have not made a technical analysis of the possibility of extending the lifetime of the F-16. That technical analysis you confirm that you have not made. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u60	That's right. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I understand that you are ready to defend your position, your position as a Member of Parliament, which is very ludicrous after today. It is confirmed that no technical analysis was made, only a process analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u61	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u62	Excuse me, Mr. Van Mechelen. You just said there's nothing wrong with you. That's your position, we know that. So only a process analysis has been made. The DG MR therefore considered that it was irrelevant. Indeed, they should not have sent the information further. But the analysis of whether or not Lockheed Martin's information is relevant, the Federal Internal Audit Service has not made any comments on this. This is entirely the responsibility of DG MR. What if that was relevant information? After all, a number of people here say that the studies of Lockheed Martin, the last of which dates from February 2018, would be theoretical exercises, which are not right and with which everything is wrong. It is even said that the fact that they had to make a second note because they made a mistake in their first note last year proves that the notes are particularly volatile and therefore not really reliable. So it's a theoretical exercise. However, this is not a theoretical exercise by Lockheed Martin. Do you know what Lockheed Martin did? Lockheed Martin has looked at the individual data of each F-16 of the Belgian air fleet. The note states that Lockheed Martin based himself on CSI values. It's true that not all of our F-16s have a monitoring kit. However, Lockheed Martin requested the individual CSI data, data of the intensity of movement of the wings of the F-16. Based on those CSI data, which is not a theoretical exercise, Lockheed Martin has developed two studies, the latest of which dates from February 2018. In those studies, Lockheed Martin says that the lifetime of our Belgian F-16s may be extended. So there might not have been an individual monitoring kit, but there are individual data about the intensity, about the movements of the wings of our F-16s. People at Lockheed Martin aren't stupid. This method is used to measure the intensity of the use of our F-16s. Based on this, Lockheed Martin deduces that the lifetime of our F-16s can be extended by up to ten years. So that gives us a lot of time. There is no urgency. We have enough time to spend taxpayers' money better. The dedain and ease with which Lockheed Martin's studies are now simply wiped off the table thanks to, fortunately, the new memo of US Air Force, is therefore intellectually incorrect. Mr Debaene, I would like to ask you, in this context, whether you have considered any other studies irrelevant in your DG? Two such studies are already diving on................................................................................................................................................................................................ Are there any such studies? Maybe there are studies on other F-16 candidate successors? Perhaps there are other studies on the extension of the lifetime of the F-16? That question is very important, because it has all surfaced in a few weeks. Perhaps we are not fortunate enough to see other studies that are considered irrelevant. There may still be studies that are safely absent on the island of DG MR, because they are considered irrelevant and therefore do not need to be forwarded to the Minister, not to the Chief of Defence, and colleagues from the majority, I certainly do not want to reassure you to the House. It is now said that there is no conspiracy, no conspiracy. However, there is still no explanation for the e-mails that have surfaced and in which a number of people, officers of the Defense Department, are mentioned together and are present together with the recipients. We're not just talking about Colonel Letten. It is not by chance that four officers, including Vansina, have been deactivated. The Minister who now says that there is nothing wrong said two weeks ago that there was a serious error of assessment. Mr. Secretary, are you withdrawing those words now? Isn't there a serious error of assessment now? A while ago, that was a big problem. That may not be the case now, when I hear you like this, thanks to the cover-up.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... One actually only has one candidate, it's not about Boeing anymore, but only about Lockheed Martin's F-35. There is therefore no explanation for the fact that a number of officers are listed together in e-mail correspondence. There is still no explanation for the fact that Colonel Letten literally says that we should not bother politicians too much with such information, because they would not understand the finesses. What pretence with the Defense Department, if that's the culture. Moreover, there is no explanation for the fact that DG MR assesses Lockheed Martin's studies as irrelevant. I even hear it saying it wasn't a new element. The study by Lockheed Martin of February this year is indeed a new element. The CSI data, the movements of the wings of the F-16, based on the individual data of each of our F-16s, are indeed a new element. So important information was withheld here. Procedurally, Mrs Schoubs of the Federal Internal Audit, there may be nothing wrong, but that is only if we can rely 100% on DG MR's judgment. Of course, you did not do that analysis, and that was not the question, but I do think it is an analysis that we as Members of Parliament should carry out anyway. Mr Minister, all this leaves a very bitter aftertaste. Actually, there's no good side of the story for any of us. Not for you, because I read that your career as Secretary of Defense is over. Not for the members of the opposition, because we find that the ranks are closed. Not for the members of the majority, who seem to be uncomfortable in the file and who will give little to the Defense Department. Trust has been violated. There's distrust. Even for the air force, this is not a good thing, because the air force has made a bad impression here, and has made special mistakes here. And it's not over yet, because next week we'll move on. We all know about internal competition in the Department of Defense. The air force will not be thanked. Politics will not take credit for that either. At a time, ladies and gentlemen of Defence, when you need taxpayers' money, Ecolo-Groen wants to go along with it, you have made a fool of politics, you have deceived us, you have withheld information and you will pay a price for it, whether you like it or not. That will not even depend on the opposition, but it will also depend on the majority parties. Something's broken here. I care about the D.O.D., and that hurts me. It will not benefit our country's performance in foreign policy and defence policy. That is the lesson we will draw from this, and that is the price you will pay. The responsibility lies with you and with the Secretary of Defense, who allows all this to happen. Minister, I had hoped that you would take sanctions today, still on the basis of the scenario that that information had not reached your cabinet and that you had not been informed. However, you wipe the slate clean, thanks to a number of things, including the new American memo. Business as usual, nothing happened, about the order of the day. To anyone who cares about Defense, they will pay a price for it. I hope that everyone in the Chamber is fully aware of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u63	Madam President, as I said earlier, I think it would be desirable for us to receive the written statements because each speaker has read a note quite quickly and it has sometimes been very difficult to follow, in particular General Robberecht, considerations which were very technical. Mr. Minister of Defence, the difficulty, in my view, is that we come today with a new version of the story. It's a little complicated to know what version of history you need to give credit to. What's the real one? Where is the truth among all the versions that have been told to us? But before I talk about the form and what is happening today, I will speak very briefly about the substance of the case. On the bottom of the file, you told us: "These planes are superbly equipped. The only fragile thing today is the carling, the fuselage, the structure. The structure is not going to hold on to more than 8,000 hours. We have to change the plane." That is exactly what we were told at the beginning of the legislature. These planes are too worn out, but they're at the top. The whole world we envy these planes and they do the job in an excellent way. We replied: "Yes, no doubt. But are there any studies in support? Can we actually verify that? Can we have the evidence?" We were then told: "No, that is not possible. There's no study. It doesn't exist." However, these studies existed and actually indicated that the structure could be extended if necessary. And, contrary to what you said, as General Debaene – as my colleague has already pointed out – these studies are not theoretical, but they have been carried out on each of our F-16s. They do demonstrate that they are less worn out than expected and that, on average, they can be extended for a number of years. Studies vary on this subject. On this basis, we have asked a whole series of questions. Contrary to what the minister today suggests, our will – for the CDH at least – has never been to fly our pilots in old cuckoos. Of course, there has always been a question of having planes that allow us to respond to the stakes and security interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u64	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u65	Perfectly, Minister! And I wouldn't want you to try to distract the debate. We have voted for your Strategic Vision and have supported your military programming law, but we do not accept that lies are said here, we do not accept that Parliament is not properly informed. I hear that, according to internal audits, in legal terms, no criticism can be made. But our question is not only about this, it is also about the opportunity to transmit these studies to Parliament. From the moment when Parliament asks whether any studies have been carried out and that this is indeed the case, the said studies should have been transmitted to it. Once an employee of the firm was informed orally of the existence of these studies, as Ms. Schoubs confirmed, they should have been communicated to Parliament rather than set aside, regardless of their value or usefulness, as some seem to question them. We are asking ourselves a major question and, unfortunately, the way in which this issue has been dealt with is problematic: what is the plane we need from a political, strategic and military point of view? That is the real and the only question. Today, we are given another version of the story by telling us that Lockheed Martin's first two notes are not the right ones, that there is a third one. We've read these notes. Reference is made to a very precise study of the wear condition of our F-16s, the condition of their cabin. Today, we are told that new equipment should be mounted on these planes. But they have been equipped and modernised throughout their lives! Throughout their lives, they have been provided with new radars, new equipment such as helmets, ejectable seats, etc. All this is known. In the future, we can imagine that they will continue to be modernized. So, today, it is very unpleasant to see that a new story is telling us, namely that in the end, it is not the carling that poses a problem but the equipment; before, we were told the opposite, namely that the equipment was good but that the plane was worn out! The argumentary has been completely transformed, like a masterly pass-pass tower! We have still not received any figures concluding that these new equipment, which would be necessary – which I can agree with – would cost more on the F-16 than on any new aircraft. That is the problem today in our debates. For the rest, it is extremely difficult to have an in-depth discussion of audits that we do not have. We only have extremely incomplete summaries. Nor do we know the methodologies: who was questioned, in what way, why, on what questions? We will therefore come back with these questions later. I want to reassure those who claim that we do not want to equip the army with an aircraft that is commensurate with our missions and commitments. At cdH, we want to, but we don't want to buy a cat in a bag. We don't want to get us to buy a plane that we wouldn't need today. We don't want in a few years' time to find out that we could have worked differently with such well-equipped planes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u66	Madam Chair, Minister, it is difficult to ask questions about audits that we do not have. I hope that their availability next week will allow for a more in-depth debate. I would like to begin with a quote that I translated from the full report of a National Defence Commission on May 31, 2016. At this session, our Chair, Mrs. Grosemans, asked you, Minister, a question about the lifespan of the F-16s. Following your answer, Mrs Grosemans replied: "Thank you, Minister. I asked this question about the lifespan of the F-16s, because I regularly participate in the debate on the replacement of the F-16s. On many occasions, it is argued that we can actually extend the lifespan of our F-16s, which is not the case. Not only do I always get a contrary wind in the debates, but I also get a lot of emails. I could almost call them chain letters. It says every time we can extend the lives of our F-16s. There are even conspiracy theories in these chain letters. There are allegations about secret reports from the Defence. The Defence would hide reports because it absolutely wants to prevent the world from knowing that the lifespan of F-16s can be extended." Colleagues, this quotation, to say the least surprising in the light of the information we have available today, dated 31 May 2016, that is almost two years ago. This quote is from our president in person. She's intriguing, and even disturbing, you'll agree. This sentence was pronounced two years before the revelations which showed that information about a study claiming that F-16 fighter aircraft could fly longer than was thought had been deliberately hidden. Similarly, the preference of some for replacing the F-16s with Lockheed Martin's F-35s may explain that this information was not made public. Admit that if we wanted to talk about conspiracy theory, we couldn't do it better! Between a former Deputy Chief of Staff at the F-35 builder and a committee chair talking about secret reports from the Defence that would be hidden, I quote, "to avoid prolonging the life of the F-16s as early as 2016", there is much to ask about who knew what. So, Mr Minister, how can you understand your lack of curiosity about the existence of such secret reports which, thanks to a whistleblower within your department, have finally been brought to the attention of this House? Did you even try to find out after hearing the words of your colleague from the N-VA, who seemed better informed than you? How do you explain your lack of worrying curiosity? To our speakers today, I would like to ask whether the audits have been carried out with all the necessary means. Have you, in particular, been able to consult all the significant documents in view of the limited prerogatives and means? Are you aware of the minister's willingness to try to obtain this information before leaks in the press? How can we guarantee the impartiality of these reports if we do not know, as several colleagues have said, the methodology? Is it necessary to go to the judicial stage to obtain certain information? How can we understand that last week, leaks were made in the press concerning the alleged findings of the internal audit in the Defence? While we have heard statements from the N-VA group leader who wanted to know who was the whistleblower in your department, what about the protection of whistleblowers in your department under the law, but also the positions taken by our assembly on this matter, including by your group's deputies? Now that you have these audits, what will follow in terms of both the procedure for suspending F-16 contracts and the in-depth evaluation of all major files? What was the exact chain of decision in relation to the replacement of the F-16s and the transmission or not of such reports by the American manufacturer? Finally, last week, in the press, a former soldier, now converted to politics, denounced a real linguistic imbalance in your department, considering that "the file of the concealment of information by senior army officers vis-à-vis Minister Steven Vandeput, particularly concerning the F-16 of Defence, is only Flemish". What is your reaction in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u67	Madam President, it is obvious that I am not going to ask questions about an audit that I have not read. I leave that to some of my colleagues. I find that a little absurd myself. I am going to ask a number of questions about the only document I have at my disposal at the moment. I don't have it at my disposal because it was in the chaff. Fortunately, I have it at my disposal because a journalist has announced it. It is the document that was apparently proposed in the context of that internal audit to be signed by Colonel X, the whistleblower. When I look at that document, it is actually a very precise aspect. To the question of whether there was an exchange of e-mails on June 16 and 17, concerning the Lockheed Martin study on the F-16 force structure projection data between Lieutenant Colonel X and MOD or the MOD Chief of Staff, his answer was no. That is a very precise question! It goes on, curiously enough in Dutch: "Participant refuses to sign this statement." That document, which I have here in front of me, is signed by you, Lieutenant General Robberecht. What is the purpose of that document? I can understand that, in the context of an audit, a report is made of the conversations that are being held with several parties involved. That is a report which is attached to the audit and which is about the full discussion, about all the elements that have been addressed. That is not the case here. This is a very precise question. They are actually asking what we lawyers call an extrajudicial confession to sign. That's basically what it's all about. This isn't a report of a conversation. This isn't a police report. In fact, someone is being asked to make a confession on a very specific point. I find that very strange. Is that common with the Defense Department in this kind of internal investigations or audits? Where did that document come from, and why the exact question? Is there a record of the full interview with the person concerned? As a lawyer with a modest knowledge of public law, I find this a kind of document that I haven't actually seen yet, except in files dealing with acts and the like. There, you'll find these documents there. But it's not about a report of a conversation. Someone is being asked to confess a very specific point. What is the meaning of that? I don't see its role in that audit. The second question is for Lieutenant General Debaene. I notice that you also signed that document. I suppose you are. Were you at that time, as some media suggest, the hierarchical superior of the person who refused to sign that document? If that person did not sign it, it is also possible that he did not wish to sign it because in his opinion the document was not true. That's possible, too. In fact, it's very likely. Why else wouldn't they sign it? So there's something wrong with that document somewhere. However, I shall return to the position of Lieutenant General Debaene. I don't think your presence is very normal. The following is not a question, it is my view that I share your view. If at that time you effectively fulfilled the function of hierarchical superior, then you are ipso facto, whether you like it or not, involved. Then why did you come to the audit? What are you doing there? That is a very peculiar situation. There is a document on which I do not understand the legal scope, certainly not in the context of an audit. The person concerned refuses to sign it. The chance that he refuses to sign it because it is not true is real. However, that document has already been signed by someone who may have been his hierarchical superior at that time. It's possible this is a carelessness, I'm not going to rule that out. I sure as hell don't want to blame people for anything. It is possible that it was a carelessness that you were involved in that audit. Well, that might tell you something about the audit. However, if it is not negligence, I regret to say that we are not far from situations that are somewhat compulsive. I would like an answer to these two questions from Lieutenant General Robberecht and Lieutenant General Debaene.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not one of those who would rather eat a bucket of ground glass rather than sign an American order. Nevertheless, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with this dossier, particularly as a majority member of Parliament. Important information is being provided here today. I am thinking of 90% of the route to be recorded and the number of aircraft that have a tracking system. I refer to Lieutenant General Debaene's explanation. That information should have reached Parliament. I'm not looking for a resignation or a sanction, either for the minister or for the generals. I think there are two levels in this discussion. On the one hand, there is the question of what is legal. Mrs Schoubs has examined whether this has been complied with. It shall specify the articles to be complied with by the public authorities. On the other hand, there's something that goes beyond the law, beyond the law. When I look at this second level, I note important shortcomings in this dossier. I agree with some of the sentences expressed by the opposition. It is important to me that from now on we install a new corporate culture, a new culture. Again, I'm not after sanctions or anything. However, I believe that there is a different way in which defence must respond to these issues vis-à-vis Parliament. When I look at the internal note, which everyone says there is nothing in it, I agree with the colleagues who say that there is something on page 2. I read literally there that a document, containing the results of a simulation, was discussed with the cabinet. This results in a political interpretation after which it is decided not to forward this document because it is unusable. When I hear Lieutenant General Debaene's explanation, I think this is a political error of assessment. As a Member of Parliament and as a majority, I say that we are entitled to 100% transparency and information. We can then do with that information and leave it as we please. I believe that we must keep all options open and be able to decide in all transparency, but we must have all the pieces of the puzzle. If, however, Defence itself is going to tell us which pieces of puzzle material we can use and which we can't... These debates belong on the purchasing committee or on enlargement in committee, in such a way that we can discuss them in a well-founded, documented way and hopefully make the right decision. I welcome the information that 90% of the route should be registered. I had not read them anywhere in person and I think it is because of the opposition work and because of the fact that it has been hammered on to know exactly what is going on, that this suddenly comes out. I would have preferred such pieces of information to come out spontaneously in Parliament, at the request of the majority or the opposition, in such a way that it is clear to everyone what we are talking about. We may still disagree with the opposition, which is the case in many respects, but that would have helped the dossier much more than what has happened now. After all, what has happened now leaves nothing to be desired, because important people within the Defense Department have said that they should stop analysing, which is a strange attitude, because basically one must continue to analyse, as deep as possible, in order to make a good decision. On his West Flemish words, a wheel has ended in that area. We need to work on a new corporate culture for the future. Parliament's hands are on the side of the Defense Department. Hopefully that will be accepted. Parliament must have all the important information. Defence gives the options, but Parliament will decide. That has to be clear. Defence cannot say that it will not give certain information to Parliament, because it does not think that is important. Due to the dialectic of continuing and continuing to ask, important information is now emerging. So I am much satisfied and calmer, because I see the file better now. If I now know how many of our aircraft have been traced in the past, then, of course, new questions arise immediately as to why we have only traced so many in the past, if I now hear that we are only doing so from 2006, then that is new information, which does give a new light to the file on whether or not to extend the life of the F-16 aircraft, the purchase of new aircraft, which are aircraft and the like. I think that is important information and I am glad that this information is included in the notes. I agree with those Members who call this the aperitif of the dossier. This is the beginning; this cannot be the full audit. Parliament is entitled to a thicker, more documented document, so that we can react balancedly. To sum up, I believe the authors of the audit say that the law was not broken, but besides the law there is also culture, corporate culture. My objective opinion today is that this corporate culture needs to change radically, so that we can do each other the best we can in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely important dossier for the people, for the taxpayers, and for the defence sector. That is why we are asking for the truth to be brought out, and Parliament is entitled to it. That is why we have asked for full transparency. Today, the first step is to find out the truth. Who withheld what information and why? Madam President, we have taken note of a number of aspects of the study and audit today, but I think it is necessary for us to have full access to all the documents relating to the investigation and the audit. On the basis of a first reading of the summaries, I have the following questions. Mr Robberecht, what exactly is the status of an internal investigation in the defence sector? The Minister announced in Parliament a few weeks ago that he would have an internal and external audit carried out. You're talking about an investigation. I've been told that Defense has its own internal audit service, but you can correct it immediately if that information is not correct. What statute does your research work have? What are the differences in research methods between an internal investigation and an audit? I think that's crucial. The main conclusion of the two documents is that the information should not be transferred to the Chief of Staff or the Minister. I have the following question: why is that? Is it normal in this constellation that soldiers should make that assessment, that consideration? In other words, in this case, do not the military decide instead of the politically responsible, in this case the Minister of Defence, who, after all, has the political ultimate responsibility in this dossier but also in all other cases? There was no mention throughout the explanatory statement of the link between the cabinet and the army. Is that sufficiently researched? Could you give us a little more explanation? Have the contacts been investigated between the people working on this project, both in the Ministry of Defence and in the Cabinet? Was the correspondence examined, among other things? After all, I read in the report that interviews have been called for in the internal investigation of the defence industry. How conclusive has all that been to find out the truth that we're looking for together? In the internal investigation we read on page 1 at the bottom that there was an update in February 2018. That's what happened to Lockheed Martin. Who decided that? Who asked about the End Life Update? I'll make up my mind next time. Why was an update made of a study by the Defense Department itself in November 2015? Has there ever been an update of this note, which also examined a number of slopes related to extending the lifetime of the F-16? This note very often states that there is a need for a feasibility study on certain issues. Has there been an update of this note since November 2015 until today? I think this is a very crucial question. Then there is the debate on the 8 000 hours of flight, which is very crucial in this matter. Is it possible to fly longer than 8,000 hours? It is said that this is a theoretical model. I just heard Lieutenant General Debaene say it's impossible to measure everything. If so, how can we ever know that our devices are at the end of their life cycle? How can we know what to do with our equipment? I think this is a crucial problem for the defence and for the capacity of the air equipment. I have one final question for the Minister and the speakers. Minister, you said a few weeks ago, after the whole fuss broke loose, that there have been serious errors of assessment in the defence sector. My question is whether you will take disciplinary measures. You decided yesterday or today to put the people who were put out of action in the Defense Department back to work. If so, why all the fuss over the past period? Then why did you talk about serious errors of assessment in this file? I look forward to the answers to these questions. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, this is the beginning of a debate. We'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u70	Madam President, I have only two questions at the moment, since my colleague Mr Van der Maelen has already asked a number of questions, the debate will be continued next week and we will be able to put questions to the guests during the hearings. First of all, I would like to put a general question to the Minister and the other guests. There is something that is still unclear to me at the moment. We have received the two brief summaries of the audits. A further study was requested at the end of 2017 or early 2018 and the result dates back to February 2018, while the purchase procedure for the new fighter aircraft is ongoing. In the audits, the other studies seem to be considered worthless. That was even confirmed here by the Minister and others. I wonder why a new study was ordered at the end of 2017, early 2018. My next question is particularly important, because the audit expert, Mrs Schoubs, will not be present at the hearing next week. It has most knowledge of the procedure of an external or internal audit, but above all internal audit. In order for a proper audit to succeed, a number of conditions must be met. One of the conditions for excluding doubts is the independence of the auditors in the investigation. There shall be no hierarchical line between the auditor and the subject-matter of the audit. I think that is a first condition. A second condition is that the auditors are not part of the audit process. Mrs Schoubs, after hearing all this yourself, do you think I would like to know whether the conditions of the internal audit have been met? I like to refer to the slide on the screen. Is that satisfied?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u71	Thank you to the lady and the gentlemen who have taken the floor to explain. I think it is too early today to draw definitive conclusions. We have had a first state of affairs. We have heard a number of important conclusions. But we must now all take a thorough look at the reports and the audit. Ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago, the country was in a state of turmoil. There was a lot of commotion about a famous memo. An atmosphere of suspicion soon emerged. No one actually came out well: it didn't look good for the replacement program, the army summit held back information for the political world and for the minister. All these juicy suspicions and that polarizing atmosphere could and can be spared in the most important purchase file on the agenda. Today we got a first stand-in here. I believe it's all about Lockheed Martin's famous memo. I am therefore pleased that, with what we can read about it, we can today get a good estimate of the value of that note, namely its usability or not, actually its non-usability. I also find it reassuring to read as a politician that there has been no conscious strategy of defence to withhold information from the political world, from the minister. If one agrees with that conclusion, the rest, I will not say of any importance, but nevertheless of minor importance. Then it is a little less relevant to find out who when and at what stage which document, which memo, which note, which paragraph, had in hand and to what extent it should or should not have forwarded the information. In that respect, I am reassured today. Mr De Vriendt, at the end of your relatively long questionnaire, that is your right. I certainly have ears for that. The relationship between the military summit and the political world was once better. That relationship wasn't right, and it's gonna take some time to get them right. But what's the alternative? What alternative do we have? We must ensure that the recommendations made are implemented. We must ensure that such things are properly framed and that information flows. I fully agree with that. But the conclusion that the procedure to replace the F-16 must be stopped should Mr Van der Maelen make it, I totally disagree with that. The international security context does not allow that at all. We must continue to profile ourselves and act as a reliable partner in the alliances we have concluded. I would like to limit my speech to that. Colleagues, let us continue to work, let us read in the files and reports and audits, let us ask specific questions to the people we need to question next week. Let us also give the Minister and the military summit the opportunity to take to heart the recommendations that we have already heard, but which hopefully we can read more about next week. That's my recommendation to the Minister and the Army Summit.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the number of questions only leads me to suspect that there is a great deal of interest in the dossier, which is, of course, a good one. Of course, we have had a lot of discussions on the subject before. Nevertheless, I will try to globalise a number of issues and give a number of specific answers to the questioners. First of all, as far as the people who think that a cover-up is going on here are concerned, that certain people have gone seriously wrong, that there should be headlines, that no matter what I read in the media, such more, I would like to call on them to take note of what we are actually spreading. You can keep saying that this famous memo says something he doesn't say, namely that one could simply, without any adjustment, go on with our F-16s in order to maintain our capacity. That's not true. You can keep saying that, eventually that note is what she is and that memo is what he is. It is an instrument to determine to what extent the structure of the F-16s is ageing. Then one makes extrapolations. These are theoretical extrapolations, because we only have data from a limited number of our devices. On the basis of this, it could be predicted today that the carcass, say the structure of the devices, could last longer. However, it is no more than that. In that context, it is therefore totally useless to say today that we are going to decide on one, two, three to do so. I believe that this is clearly stated today. You can say that it is all too easy and too much, it will never be good, Mr De Vriendt. For you, it's a cover-up. That sounds good, and I hope you get the press with it. I'll be fine. However, it is pure... I will not use the word that lay on my lips. However, it is not sensible or wise to quote such elements. This is where a lot of things get mixed up. The same applies to Mr Van der Maelen. Quite a few games are mixed up. You say that I reel everything together, but it's all very clear to me in the meantime. At the time, I was surprised by something that was worthy of honour. The sp.a was able to blow up to enormous proportions in the very short term. They also put me in a corner where politics wasn't really easy at the time. I did come to the committee to explain my information and my attitude. I have made a number of commitments there with regard to investigations and so on. That's why I'm here today. I said at the time that, on the basis of the information available to me at the time, I felt that there were serious errors of assessment. Today, after an investigation, I find out together with you that no mistakes were made. Would it have been more convenient if I had that famous Tuesday morning with that specific report? I think so. You are right in that regard, Mr Bogaert. There is indeed something like beyond the law. It would have been more convenient, but it's not an obligation. The accusations that are made here without any evidence and on the basis of assumptions about individuals are unacceptable to me. I have heard very big words today about the role of Parliament. A Member's right to speak is sacred, but I believe that there is also such a thing as decency. At least that's how I was raised, although it's clear that this doesn't apply to everyone. So I take back the words "heavy errors of assessment." That seems clear to me. I said on Wednesday that, on the basis of the information that was made available to me at the time, there was no reason to ask people to stop doing their job. Those who believe that Parliament should decide on who can perform what function in the defence sector are mistaken. This may be the case in some regimes, but in our case, the Minister of Defence creates a framework, and within the Defence Staff it is then decided who performs which function. That is the way our democracy works. It seems to me very bad if any individual would depend on any political influence for the performance of his job. Mr Van der Maelen, the synthesis indicates a figure, which is specifically mentioned: for these particular works to be carried out, the SPO gives an estimate of one billion. If you want to compare apples with apples, then you should do so, and you will indeed take my note, Mr Yüksel, which has not been updated since 2015. You know that the government decided on 22 December 2015 on the basis of that note that we are going to replace the F-16. The decision was taken at that time. One still has to look at the outside world, of course, but the decision has been taken. We can continue to study and order additional studies and I don't know, but we have decided that we are going to replace the F-16s and that process has begun to roll. That process is still rolling, and it has been proven once again that this has not been contaminated. As for your request to hear Lockheed Martin, an invitation from the Chamber has left for Lockheed Martin to appear here next week. I suspect they will go into that, so that does not seem to me to be such a big problem. Mr van der Maelen, you ask when we have decided politically on the level of ambition. You should read what we have all written and said in recent years. Everyone here always pretends to fall out of the sky. One cannot say that one wants to enroll in a European story and want to be less dependent on the Americans and at the same time say that, as a small country, we should really do nothing but brush afterwards. I can't. If we want to build a European defence together, everyone has to do their part in this, the Dutch with so many, the French with so many, the Germans with so many and so many and so many. We will then have to play our part at some point, because otherwise there will be no European defence. Or do you really think that our fellow Members will appreciate that we are only here to distribute bandage boxes? I don't think so. I suspect that we will be expected to do a number of things, even on a European scale, and in that context I would advise you to read my Strategic Vision, because it says a few things about it. I don't know if you've ever had the time, but she's available to the public. With regard to the oral explanation of my cabinet, the evening before the round of questions in the Chamber, it is hectic, because we are working on the composition of answers. Mr van der Maelen, you know this, because you yourself have worked in a cabinet. Some Members prepare the questions well and give time to reply, while others wait until the last minute to put a question so that I have some extra work to do. That's a good right, it's not a value judgment, but there are differences. Well, in the context of the preparation of answers, there has been a slight contact between my cabinet and the Defence Staff. Next week, you can ask those involved yourself. At no time, however, has that specific document been with us. Well, at least we didn't find any evidence of it, so I don't think it's been there. Moreover, the explanatory statement I have given is in line with the explanatory statement I am giving today. That document is no more than a document as there are many documents. Well, you see that differently and that is your right, but once in a while the truth may also be followed. I come to another question, which was raised in general and in which Mr Vuye was particularly interested. I'll give you my version. Once again you must move to the week of March During that week, there was indeed another great confusion over a document, of which sp.a and Groen were able to fully assess the technical value. However, I cannot do that; I employ specialists to do so, or I call on specialists to do so. At that moment, I was part of that flow. It was about a document I should have faced, but it hadn't happened. I myself did not know the value of that document, nor did I know the usual course of the processes of dealing with such documents. We waited for that reason. Actually, Mr Van der Maelen, I did what you asked. At the committee meeting, you asked me to have the mail traffic checked during that particular period. I have indeed asked the Defence Staff to check with the persons concerned whether or not there had been contact with the Cabinet. If no contact had taken place, I asked for that statement to be signed. That's all it is. So if you say today that it is unacceptable to ask such questions, then it will be difficult. You can't blame me for the cabinet trying to kick me out as a minister, can you? I hope that all Cabinets will try to do that for their minister, and I hope that no minister has a cabinet that wants to turn him or her on. Mr De Vriendt, the confidentiality of the document. We made a choice. You're right. The choice that we could have made is to declassify, start perusing and make an audience. Then you would end up with a document that is not readable and I would be accused of not being able to do anything about it. We have made the proposal to use a method which is applied very regularly in Parliament: to make it available to the committee secretariat. There are always other solutions, there are no limits to creativity, but that is the solution we have chosen. It gives you access to the document. You can do your job. You say I have a problem in the department. I don't know. I said at the time: let's see what's going on first. I got the results on Wednesday. In this I say that my great distrust that was created by the windstorm of Mr Van der Maelen and his associates was perhaps partly unjustified. Does that mean I have to be unhealthy naive? No, but I don't think we have any serious problems in the department. I am also tired of always having to hear that there are islands in the department and that people are only doing their own things and hearing accusations for which there is no reason at all. I'll tell you again. The files submitted to the Army Procurement and Sales Commission are examples of files. You may speak to Treasury inspectors. You may speak to the Court of Auditors. You can ask the people who did the investigations in Defense. The way they work and the seriousness with which they perform their job has not been seen in any department. I can tell you that. I really think that, if you're okay with the Defense Department, as you say, you'd better take the time to just talk to a few people instead of putting things in place without having any real cause for it. You should not forget that you are talking about people who are working on our security, who want to make a piece of their body and members available for our international security. They will do everything in their power to do so in the best possible way. They have often not had enough resources in the past, we all agree on that, but we must ensure that they are able to do so safely. They are doing everything they can to improve this at a rapid pace. Mr Dallemagne, you have not asked me a question. Mr. Chabot, on the other hand, asked me one.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u73	Minister, I told you that you have completely changed your arguments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u74	That's not true and there's no need to discuss it. You're doing a little like Mr. Van der Maelen. He too says things that have been said but that are not in the report and thus makes his own history. Each one's method. No, there's no other reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u75	Mr. Minister, please read again! You will see that these planes were worn out, the carling and not the equipment. We had to change the fuselage. The structure of these aircraft was worn out. After that, we were told that studies show that the structure...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u76	No, no!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u77	You change all the time the arguments, the opinions, the elements on which we must make our own opinion. Besides, you're not answering me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u78	Mr Chabot, you are facing me with a quote of 31 May 2016 on the basis of a report received in April 2017. It's hard! I am sure that if, in 2016, we had known about the reports that were published in 2017, we would not be here. If we had such powers, we would not be politicians. Again, Mr. Chabot, we know Lockheed Martin's memo and it's not a guarantee for a longer life for the F-16s. I have made my own proposals and studied information on alternatives. At one point, it was decided that the F-16s should be replaced. That's it! You're talking about an "alert launcher." There's no whistleblower. A whistleblower presents himself to a trusted person or to the federal mediator, in order to have the necessary protection. There are laws to that effect. I invite you to search Google for the words "complaints" and "defence". Google will inform you about all the means at your disposal to file a complaint or mention an irregularity. Mr Vuye, you also like to use that word. I know that you insist on the proper use of words and the correct terminology. There are legislative provisions for the statute of whistleblower. As Minister for Civil Service, I have already proved that this system is also working effectively. In the past, it has also been demonstrated in the Defense Department, in a number of files, that the whistleblower system works. But someone who brings material, externally to Defense, to a political party, trying to do political damage to the minister, I don't call a whistleblower. If political decisions have already been taken, then it is those who have decided to take the issue to the political level, external to the defence sector, who have made political decisions. We may differ, but that would not be the first time or the last time. Mr Bogaert, you said that the 90% standard is new to you, but it is also new to us. On 22 or 23 March we asked SPO to explain the report. If Mr Van der Maelen had done his work completely and had examined what information was still being provided to us, rather than playing a technician, then he could also have determined that there are a number of specific conditions for doing so. This includes, for example, the permanent annual monitoring of all devices. If he had also looked at the follow-up e-mail relating to that story and also announced the follow-up e-mail rather than that one that was made public, he would have also found that, according to the person concerned, little or nothing could be done with Lockheed Martin's free offer, because a whole package of conditions had to be met before it could be effectively applied in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u79	Mr Minister, there are actually two trains of information. According to the first train of information, which is alarming for the procedure, the bodywork of the aircraft can last longer. Of course, one has to see this in the context that is only now becoming known, namely the study that determines on an individual basis of each fighter jet how many equivalent flight hours there are left. In order to determine it, one must have traced it. Apparently, we didn't trace it. In that sense, that is a completely new context. At the moment when the cabinet employee has to assess whether he gives the information to Parliament or not, there is only that first train of information. You spoke at some point about a gross error of judgment, and I didn't want to go that far. If you say nothing has happened, I personally do not think so, I tell you in good faith. I do believe that a political error of assessment has occurred, because if he had given this information directly to Parliament, then the nuance, which is only now coming, would have got there faster and perhaps it would not have been necessary to have had all that storm. He's gonna come here and disprove it or not. In any case, I believe that there is a political error of assessment. As an experienced person in a cabinet, he must feel at that time that something like this should be reported. I also think that this information should have come from Colonel Letten to Lieutenant General Debaene. Is that a big deal? No, but I do believe that such information would have been passed on.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u80	We can discuss this for a long time. I'm just saying that everyone here has acted within his jurisdiction. That's what the audit finally revealed. No mistakes have been made in this respect. Would it have been more convenient? Maybe so, but you'll miss out on two things. Firstly, the government decided to replace the F-16s in 2015 after due consideration. That decision was made and running. You are not saying that we should go back to that, at least that is how I understand it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u81	I never said that the procedure should be stopped. I have never said at the high stress moments of the beginning that the procedure should be stopped. I do think we should learn from what happened. We cannot simply proceed to the order of the day. I think there should be another culture. I also see this in the notes from both Mrs Schoubs, who puts it forward as a recommendation, and from General Robberecht, who says that something needs to be learned from this. One can't just say that it happened and then just move on. I think a learning process needs to be set in motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u82	That's what I just said. A number of recommendations have been made, which we take to heart and which we will examine in what form we can give them. That's what happens today. Mr Top, to your general question about ordering a new study in 2018, I answer no. It was said at the time that Lockheed Martin offered the force structure projection within the Falcon 2020 package, i.e. the maintenance package for the F-16s. That's what everyone's offered. It has been said here that it will be accepted, because it will not cost us anything, and it would provide us with information, after which one would see what that information would lead to. In that context, in April 2017, Lockheed provided the first analysis of the data provided in January 2017. It was updated in 2018, basically. It is also said that it is necessary to monitor this every year, otherwise it will not work at all. It's either one or the other. There's nothing else ordered. The study, or the memo, did not come in the first place with a view to the replacement programme. That note was made in the context of the structural management of the fleet of F-16s, as I tried to explain in the Chamber to Mr Van der Maelen. I'll deal with the question of independence later. I would like to conclude with two reservations. Firstly, I note that there is a great desire to argue that the army is making political decisions. But when are we going to do that? This is done when a purely technical decision is taken that does not fit in with the booth of those who say that a political decision has been taken. I don't have to stand up for anyone but myself here today. Read the report of what you have said here today, gentlemen of the opposition. You yourself say that at the moment when a technical decision is not convenient for you, it is a political decision. If there is a report of an audit or an internal investigation that you would have preferred to see other results, then the investigation has not been good or has been sent. The auditors will soon tell us to what extent they have been able to work freely or not. These are the two points I should like to make in conclusion. Again, I am prepared to answer any question from Parliament at any time. The members of the committee here know that. I do think it is time to start effectively with the dossier and stop mentioning in the wild names of several people who might be involved in the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u83	I have put together a number of questions to me, on the one hand, about the presence of Lieutenant General Debaene, on the other, about the signing of a note. There were also some questions about the precise position of an internal investigation. In my introduction, you may have noticed that, knowingly, I said: "To avoid misunderstandings, I would point out that an internal audit was conducted and not an internal audit, which is subject to specific audit rules. Why did I say that? Because with the 2016 legislation for Defence as of 20 January 2018, Defense is no longer allowed to have an internal audit service, such as a number of other federal institutions. We no longer have an internal audit service at the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u84	May I add that Defense has joined the FIA, like all other departments. That's why.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u85	Defence finally signed that protocol with the FIA and registered itself in the role the FIA takes in. The Inspector General has been operating since the beginning of this year. For reasons of efficiency, a small service has been chosen, and not to replace the abolished larger service with a new larger service. In investigations, therefore, other staff departments are called upon to examine, according to which research is being conducted, what expertise can be used within the tasked staff department to perform a supporting role. In the present case, it was very quickly apparent that DG MR would be asked for a supporting role in order to speed up this investigation. On the one hand, because the problem was with DG MR staff, on the other, because of the technicality of the file, for which the know-how is available from DG MR technicians. For reasons of efficiency and speed, we, together with the Chief of Defense, have asked General Debaene to provide a supporting role in this investigation. There were a number of questions about the signature of the note. The Minister has already replied. At the time that Lieutenant Colonel Decrop was asked to sign a note, that question was very relevant to know with certainty whether he had sent a memo to the Defense Department at that time. The very precise question to which you referred was also addressed to Colonel Letten. This question wasn't just asked to Colonel Decrop. Colonel Letten also received that very precise question. I contacted our legal service myself to see what framework I could ask for this. In the context of an administrative preliminary investigation, I could ask that question, but I could not oblige them to sign anything. I also conveyed that message to them, that they had the absolute freedom not to do anything with it, and that they should not sign anything. It's not about a statement someone was put in the mouth. In the end, it was just a question. The answer to that question was noted, as was the fact that it was not signed. That's all! The insinuation that statements were made there on paper, which he did not make, is not correct. I have already explained the presence of General Debaene. He had a supporting role in the internal investigation. At the time of the investigation, he was no longer in the hierarchical line of Lieutenant Colonel Decrop who left the service in June 2017. He's working somewhere else right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u86	A number of Members have asked to speak, but I would prefer to have the speakers reply first and then open a second round of questions, otherwise we will have continuous interruptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u87	There were questions about how we could carry out the audit and whether we could have done it in total independence. To answer that, I'll give you the chronology. On 21 March we received the question. That was a question about integrity violation. We had to check, on the basis of the articles published in the press, whether effective information had not been passed on. On 22 March there was a plenary session, after which, on the basis of the report we received, we added a number of additional questions to the investigation on our own initiative, including the influence of the ACAP process and the decision-making process on the whole issue. We started the actual investigation on 23 March. That ran until April 11th. During that period we carried out various analyses and we also interviewed the people. We weren't told who to interview. We have based this on the names we found in a number of documents that we had received around the mail traffic that has been there. On the basis of the first conversations we invited people for interviews. The interviews were conducted in collaboration with the people of KPMG. Someone from KPMG usually led the conversation, along with one of my employees from the FIA. We have determined the questions asked in the context of the interviews entirely ourselves. A report was made at the end of each interview. That report was also given to the person concerned, who could read it and make corrections, additions and/or amendments, according to the possible interpretation. The report was also signed by the various people with whom we did an interview. We have not received any negative reactions from any of the parties. Nor has anyone said that he did not want to be interviewed, nor is there anyone who did not want to sign the report. Based on the documentation and information we had at the time, we made an analysis of the data, the mail traffic that was there. We asked on 23 March to make a copy of the mail traffic of the PST files of the people who were known at that time, which we knew were involved in the file. Later there was also asked to make copies of other people's PST files. We looked at the inbox, the outbox and what was deleted. On the side of the forensic audit, we take that data and make an analysis of it. On the part of the Defense Legal Service, there was an additional question. They wanted the people whose e-mails we were going to view to be physically present when we looked at those e-mails. From a forensic point of view, we cannot allow someone to be there who can say what one should and should not look at. What can be done is that one simply sits as an observer when those e-mails are viewed. That's what happened. So that's how it worked. We screened the mailboxes based on some key words we found based on what we had from the conversations and what was relevant to the files we had looked at. We put the e-mails that were relevant on that basis in a container and then we went over those e-mails together with the people involved in the file. There has been some discussion about this. Let us say that it took some time, because people wanted to be involved in viewing the e-mails and because of the legal aspect. On 23 March we asked for the copy to be made and we finally received the data on 4 April. So let us say that there has been time between those two moments, one way or another.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u88	I have one more question because I don't know if I got it right. You've done the search on the basis of copies taken...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u89	Yeah, they took a copy of the PST files from the people. We received a copy of what they have on the mail server from the DOD's ICT service. It's actually on that basis that we've worked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u90	And you know if you don't know that you can take two copies? One can take a copy that makes it possible to see if that copy has been erased and one can also get a copy on which one can no longer see at all whether it has been erased. Do you know what type of copy you received? Is it a type of copy that allows you to look at the deleted e-mails as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u91	Let me say that we have received a copy of deleted e-mails, but if you really want to be sure, it is better to just take the PC and screen it completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u92	Did you work on the computer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u93	Within the time frame available to us and given the time required by a PC screening...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u94	You only worked on the copies?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u95	Now we've been working on the copies. This concerns data from different parties involved from different sides in this process, both from DG MR Systems working on it and from the cabinet. It's a large amount of data. Based on what we have seen, we have decided not to carry out any further investigations on the PCs for the time being. That step can always be taken, but it will require further studies. On the basis of the studies we have carried out, the first indications do not indicate that. I also think I can say that nothing has been found on integrity violations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u96	Mrs Schoubs, will you continue your speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u97	Some comments have also been made on the fact that the audit only dealt with regulations and procedures, and that our audit concludes that no mistakes have been made in the area of regulation and procedures. That's correct. It is true that the scope of the audit was limited to the breach of integrity. However, we have made recommendations which clearly state that the processes surrounding them and the flow of information must be looked at and improved in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u98	Is the audit in time...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u99	Mr van der Maelen, you can ask further questions afterwards. Everyone's equal before the law. You may ask your questions, because I will shortly open a second round of questions, but I do not wish to see any continuous interruptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u100	That question was already asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u101	Three other Members would like to put additional questions. If I let you do that, it's the dam's fence. You may ask any questions you wish in a second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u102	The fish had already been half drowned, and you're drowning him all the way now. If we are not allowed to ask any additional questions from Mrs Schoubs, Mrs Schoubs will have to come back to another meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u103	Mr van der Maelen, I have told you that in the second round of questions you may ask any questions you wish to ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u104	Then I come to the question of whether there should be someone of hierarchy when someone is auditioning. Oh, yeah. As part of a forensic audit, I would say: no, of course not. As part of a forensic audit, as we have done, we are never going to do that. We're never gonna let anyone we audition and interrogate get someone from the hierarchy. That is not appropriate according to audit methodology. It was an internal investigation at the Department of Defense, and so there was another methodology.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u105	Madam President, it is, of course, the easiest answer to be given at the end of the day, because there have already been reasonable answers. I would like to thank the three previous speakers for that. I've got two more cases open. There was a question about Portugal and other prices. When you look at the other fleet owners of F-16's, you get different prices anyway. This makes sense for Portugal, as they are younger aircraft that have flown less. This gives them different prices, to start with. It depends on what type of upgrades they've done there. We have already done three upgrades to our F-16s and there prices are also different. Everything depends on the content of what is effectively performed. I have heard a number of times that individual data have been introduced into Lockheed Martin's studies, including Mr Yüksel and Mr De Vriendt. The individual data contained therein are administrative data. I have already reported it, our fleet consists of 54 devices, on 27 devices we have facilities to install a measuring device and we have 16 measuring devices. This means that if we change these measuring devices from one plane to another, we will take effective measurements on half of our fleet at the most. What happens for the other devices? What are those administrative records? This is an indication given by the pilot: what type of flight I have flown, what is the duration of the flight, what load I had in fuel and under the wings, what great types of movements I have done. What the people of the Netherlands Air and Space Institute and Lockheed Martin are doing on the basis of these measurements is making extrapolations to the entire fleet. This is completely different from taking measurements on each device independently with an independent recording device. Hence the difference. We do not measure every device, but we are going to extrapolate it by means of a particular study technique. So I was no longer in Colonel Decrop's hierarchical line when he appeared before General Robberecht and myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u106	Thank you. I'm opening a second round. I give the floor to Mr Vuye.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u107	Minister, I will not go into your remarks about people who have no decency and who, fortunately, have been raised well. As for your comments on the whistleblower, if you would like to know something about this, please read the 2016 ECHR judgment in Görmüş against Turkey. This is about whistleblowers at Defense, and that is even about information that was classified as confidential and then you will be able to talk about whistleblowers with knowledge. What I do want to talk about is the fact that I am asking a question to Lieutenant General Debaene and Lieutenant General Robberecht and that you are answering. It is very interesting to put together your answer with Lieutenant General Robberecht's answer. You say that we have to put ourselves back in the situation of 22 March, when Mr Van der Maelen has played a lot of games and you add that a cabinet serves to get the Minister out of the wind. You have said that no cabinet serves to get the Minister off the ground. You said that this initiative came from your cabinet. That's how I understood it. So that initiative comes from your cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u108	We have asked the cabinet whether they have been in contact and whether they should make a statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u109	I find it particularly strange that you ask that. I hear Lieutenant General Robberecht saying he was conducting an internal administrative investigation. I fully believe him, because he also uses the right terminology. He asked if he could get people to sign such a document in the context of that internal administrative investigation. The answer was affirmative, even though they were not obliged to sign anything. That makes a lot of sense. The opposite would be weird even in a hierarchical structure like the army. One is never obliged to sign anything. If he had just said that, I would not have fallen on that, but this is about the statement made in advance by the Minister saying that such an initiative was taken, because Mr Van der Maelen had made a lot of noise and the Minister had to be kicked out of the wind. This may be combined in good faith, I do not rule that out with an internal administrative inquiry. To be honest, I think that's something about it. There has been a mix between the political aspect of the cabinet and what the purely administrative aspect should have been. Once again, this has most probably been done in good faith and I will certainly not throw a stone for it, but that mixture has happened. Mr Bogaert has just advocated a different culture. This is indeed an example of why a different culture is needed. It is not normal that the internal wishes of a cabinet, of a political body, suddenly become part of an internal administrative inquiry. You will agree with me that this must be managed with the necessary independence and impartiality. For the record, I also have no evidence that the auditor would not have done so. However, there has been a mix-up here, and I regret that. On this point, we should move towards a different culture, as Mr Bogaert has pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u110	Minister, in order to avoid confusion, I would like to make it clear that the document I read to you earlier is not just any document. This is the official minutes, the full record of the Defence Committee sitting on May 31, 2016, at which our committee chair replied that she had learned of conspiracy theories in chain letters she received. These letters also referred to allegations about secret reports by the Defence, according to which the Defence would hide reports because it absolutely wanted to prevent the world from knowing that the lifespan of the F-16s could be extended. I repeat, this is 2016. We are talking a lot today about the 2017 Lockheed report, but these are statements that were made a year ago. My question was simple: between 2016 and 2017, or a fortiori now, did you know about the facts of the allegations that Mrs Grosemans was aware of? Indeed, it made the declaration in the official Defence Committee. In the same way that your group leader said he absolutely wanted to know the author of the current leaks, it seems to me normal to know whether you were worried about who was launching such allegations in 2016 already.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u111	Madam President, I have two specific questions to ask Mrs Schoubs. First question: Do you have security accreditation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u112	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u113	As a result, you did not have access to all the data that may require security accreditation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u114	We had access to all the documents stored in the mailbox. Normally, in the case of security-related documents – which is not the case for the documents in question – they are not in an email box. Such documents should normally be stored in a well-protected server. We've got a copy of all the e-mails, even those from previous years. The "raw copy" of the e-mails was therefore available.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u115	So you don't have security clearance. It's important. You answered my second question in part. To make things clear, do you or do you not have the guarantee that you have access to all emails?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u116	We had access to the e-mails that were sent to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u117	So you didn't get access to all the e-mails.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u118	It might be possible that not all emails were sent to us or that some were deleted. But normally, we had access to all the e-mails. This is about 133 gigabites of e-mails.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u119	Mr Minister, when my colleague referred to the problem of whistleblowers, you referred to the complaints. It's not the same thing at all. But today's hearing demonstrates, among other things, that there is a need to reflect on a framework for whistleblowers in Defence. We will certainly have an opportunity to come back to the issue in the Defence Committee in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u120	Madam President, once again we must see that there is a constant presence in our Defence Summit. That constant is that the summit has chosen a new fighter plane and that any other study that refers to another option, such as the extension of the F-16, is always discredited by our Defence Summit. We have received another sample of this today. There have been studies done by Lockheed Martin at the request of the Defense Department, by the way. These studies come to the conclusion that although not all historical data are available, Lockheed Martin is aware that a short extension of a few years with little expenditure is possible. If one wants a slightly longer extension, it will be more expensive. That seems pretty obvious to me. The constant fact, however, is that our army summit is throwing away all these studies, despite the fact that, for example in notes circulating in 2015, it has been made clear each time that a feasibility study has to be carried out on the extension of the F-16. The military summit has always succeeded in putting these feasibility studies completely aside. Madam President, I am very formal. I assume that the engineers of Lockheed Martin who made the studies of April 2017 and February 2018 are not fools. I'm assuming they know what they're putting on paper. I want them to be invited to this committee to answer the arguments put forward here by Lieutenant General Debaene, who always go in the same direction: this is not useful, it is far too expensive. Now it appears that it costs up to a billion euros. That is a lot of money, but at least it is much less than the 5.2 or 5.3 billion that the United States is asking for for 34 F-35s to be purchased. That's the first thing I want to say. I'm pressing it, these aren't fools. I wish to see a confrontation with Lockheed Martin's experts and I want them to express their views on the arguments put forward here by our own Defence Summit. Secondly, allowing the military top to act politically. May I remind my fellow Members that only the preamble of the Strategic Vision, the document of the end of 2015, has been approved by the government. The government has taken note of the rest of the Strategic Vision. Once again, no political decision has been taken at the military summit that has long been decided for us that Belgium must have an air combat capacity that allows it to operate in the most unsafe situation from the first minute onwards, alongside other states. Nevertheless, General Debaene dismissed the F-16 extension, arguing that it would not be possible to do so. That is right, that is not going to be possible, but it is the policy that has to decide on the level of ambition. That cannot therefore form the basis for an argument. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u121	Mind if I finish my thought? General Debaene just said the F-16 won't let us. In doing so, he said that we should go for the F-35 or possibly another candidate. That choice isn't up to the military. It's up to us. Thirdly, I note that the Minister has admitted here that there has been an intervention from his cabinet towards the internal investigation, which was organised under the direction of General Robberecht. I'll write that down. This raises the question to the Minister whether similar interventions have been made from his cabinet towards the external audit. If you think it's normal, I think Mr Vuye has just mowed the grass at my feet...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u122	No! You can ask the auditor yourself. Ma'am's here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u123	You say no. We write it down!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u124	You can ask for it yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u125	You say no and the lady can say what she wants in her answer. My penultimate point is the question to Mrs Schoubs which I was not allowed to ask earlier. Mrs. Schoubs, you say you have 131 gigabytes of e-mails. Are those e-mails from a certain period of time? If one starts searching, one has to enter keywords, but one can also start searching in time. Can you tell me what time period you've been looking for?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u126	(...) received from the full mailboxes, without a time limit, of what the person has always kept. In some, it's recent, in others, it's less recent. We have been searching specifically for the period from May 2016 to March 2018. We have looked at the entire period until the mailbox stops. Initially, we looked close to the date of May 2017 to limit the number of mails. We then carried out a further analysis to see what additional e-mails were available to see if there was anything relevant. The entire period from May 2016 to March 2018 was screened for keywords that we have held back. One can, of course, go back a long way...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u127	I'm just asking the question. I'm curious. I won't see it till Monday. Are the results of this search in keywords in the document that we will be able to see on Monday?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u128	The document states what research we have done...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u129	But no results?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u130	Of course, we didn't record the result of all those e-mails, because there were thousands of e-mails. What came out of it is in the working papers with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u131	Okay. Finally, Madam President, we are going to include a settlement of the work, because I want to know when we will be able to hear the speakers today a second time after we have taken note of the audits and the report proposed by Mr Debaene. Secondly, I am very curious who will be coming next Wednesday and who will not, because I read in the newspapers that within the government or within the majority consultation we agreed to weed in the list of guests for Wednesday. That surprises me very much. I thought it was Parliament in a parliamentary democracy that determines who should be and not the government. I am therefore very curious to know what the list of people we will hear on Wednesday will be, because I, as a Member of Parliament, still do not know that at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u132	Mr Van der Maelen, you asked first if Lockheed Martin and the US Air Force were invited. We have, of course, contacted both of us. We were asked to do so by a number of groups. They are formally invited and are aware of our request. They are also willing to send a representative, but we are still waiting for the names. That is why the list of speakers has not yet been distributed. On Monday we will send a list of speakers to the members of the committee and on Tuesday we will have an arrangement for the work. This will include not only a list of speakers, but also a proposal for a classification in which they will appear to be heard. I have invited everyone who has been asked by the various groups. Of course, I didn't make any selection. That's how we agreed to it in our Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u133	As far as Lockheed Martin is concerned, I urge that we hear one of the authors of the reports we have received. So I do not want a witness who works in the higher ranks of Lockheed Martin and who might much prefer to sell F-35s to Belgium. I want the authors, one of the engineers or whatever their background is, who made the study. Madam President, may I conclude from your reply that we will also have the opportunity to include the Prime Minister's advisor, specializing in defence, as guests? Or aren't the messages I read about that in the paper correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u134	Those persons have been withdrawn by the applicant, so they will not be on the list.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u135	All right, then I would like to take this opportunity to ask that we hear all the defence advisers, or whatever function they have in the cabinet, from the Prime Minister and from all the Deputy Prime Ministers. Indeed, they played a very important role in 2015, as they did the preparatory work for the so-called "Defense Christmas Note" in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u136	Mr Van der Maelen, this is an ordinary meeting of the Committee on Defence. The persons we invite are free to enter our invitation or not. I can't force anyone to testify before our committee. Those hearings shall take place on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u137	So that means that we invite them and we just have to wait and see if they come. Is that a correct conclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u138	Yeah, basically.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u139	We invite them. We'll see if they come.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u140	Several Members have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u141	Mr Van der Maelen, you have been in Parliament long enough, much longer than I have, to know that the final responsibility of a cabinet lies with the minister and not with the staff or cabinet members of the cabinet. If you do wish to invite cabinet staff, I suggest that you invite the ministers immediately so that they can come and explain it here. The Minister is the ultimate responsibility of his or her cabinet. So it is not the employees who should be called to account here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u142	Madam President, I can only support what Mr Vandenput has said. Majority parliamentarians also respect constitutional principles, including the fact that in parliamentary democracy ministers are accountable to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u143	May I ask the majority colleagues how they explain the following. I just heard the Secretary of Defense say that he's gonna have employees coming from him. Then why are they coming? What are the reasons why other ministers' staff are not allowed to come here? I have no problem with inviting all these ministers and deputy prime ministers, but I am trying to be a little pragmatic and practical. I have the impression that these people have other cats to fling. However, I am particularly interested in what happened in 2015. It is in that inter-kabinette working group that the slope of the lifetime extension of the F-16 was so suddenly swept under the mat, although in previous documents several times it was called for feasibility studies to investigate that slope. That piste disappeared sometime in the fall of 2015. That can only be clarified by those employees of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister who was in the inter-Kabinette working group. I would like to know who in those working groups chose the slopes of the F-35 and whether there were still people who at that time kept the track of the lifetime extension of the F-16.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u144	Mr van der Maelen, we can discuss this for a long time to come. I have indicated myself as I always do, I'm actually far too good for this world to express so much that I'm willing to give all the openness and clarity about my files. I do that all the time. I'm also giving more information than I'm actually obliged to give. I also asked not to wait until next week to give this presentation. Look what time it is in the meantime, your day would have been over by then. In that same context, I have said that I will not stop anyone when they are called. However, you must ask yourself questions about political responsibility. You say here that you're going to love individual cross-examinations of all those employees. That's actually your intention. They are going to be held responsible for this and they will have to go through the mud. Then the minister responsible will be heard. Of course, it's one or the other. Either the Minister is responsible for his cabinet, which I hear all the time here, or the people who work for me in the cabinet are responsible. It's one of two, not both. If you want to hear this or that information title, it is all right, but your intention is not to obtain information. Your intention is to hold a cross-examination. I can also call that different, but you really want to point the finger at people here for mistakes they might have made. That is not a right that you have as a parliament, then I stand before my people. If you want to point the finger, point at me: that is why we are Minister and you are opposition. If you'd like to hear how that went at the time, no problem at all. As was asked a week ago for a semi-training course on what are actually military procurements, we can take care of that and we will get staff to do so. In that sense, I would like to work with Parliament. I am very happy to have the content of any debate. I can only say that at some point they were asked to examine the alternatives. We have looked at the alternatives and we have found that this was the choice here in relation to what we financially foresee, which means that this was not a choice. We can discuss prices for a long time and what is necessary or not, whether they should be grey or yellow or vice versa. To make a long story short: when I say my people can come, it's to provide information. But that's not the intention that comes from the question. Mr van der Maelen, I have been going through intentional processes for a few weeks and I have been blaming things I would have said. Oh, please. I understand that people have all been invited by the president. Today I had to read in the newspaper the accusation that no distinction was made. If someone who has asked someone says that they no longer have to do so, they can also do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-13-54-commissie-ic862x.u145	Colleagues, there are no more questions. All the questions that were asked were addressed in great detail.
