ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, as agreed, the topical debate on the detention of families with children in closed centres is on the agenda. I shall first give the floor to the questioners. As provided for in the Rules of Procedure, in the context of a topical and urgent debate, the political groups which have not tabled any questions may also have the floor, either at the time of the questioning or during the replies. Otherwise, we will see how far we can get, because we have an extensive agenda. From 15:30 there are oral questions addressed to Minister Jambon. This means that we will not be able to complete our agenda completely today. In order to answer the questions, we will consider whether an additional meeting can be convened within a reasonable period of time, so that the questions are not isolated from the actual situation and you will receive a timely answer, as may be expected. The first question is that of Mr Hellings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u2	Secretary of State, on Friday, August 10, 2018, the Deputy Regional Representative of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for Western Europe, Véronique Robert, said: "Detention is simply never in the interests of the child. This harmful practice violates the Convention on the Rights of the Child in many respects and must be ended." On Saturday, 11 August, a royal decree was issued allowing the Office of Foreigners to use the family units set up at the 127bis closed centre in Steenokkerzeel. We saw it with our own eyes during our visit on 22 June last, this children's prison is located in the immediate vicinity of the Brussels Airport runways. In this connection, the Director of the Office, Mr. Roosemont, referred to the problem of noise pollution and its impact on children during the day of visit of the press centre on 19 July. He stated in substance, according to La Libre Belgique, that: "Noise nuisances have been examined and considered normal". It therefore seems that a health and environmental impact assessment has been carried out, which justifies that "noise helmets will be distributed to children – if they so wish – who play outside". La Libre Belgique of 13 August states that an "external company carried out tests". Mr Secretary of State, what has been your reaction to the legitimate remarks made by the Deputy Regional Representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for Western Europe? Was a letter sent to him? If so, could I have a copy of this letter? In general, how was UNHCR involved in the drafting of the above-mentioned royal decree and the opening of the children's prison? Did he visit her? Is there a health and environmental impact assessment of the noise generated by intense airport activity on children locked in this area, as Mr Roosemont himself seems to suggest? Can I have a copy of this document? Who wrote it? What is the legal basis for its realization? In addition, a family from Serbia with four children was kept in detention at the 127bis Steenokkerzeel centre from mid-August to 10 September. These children and their mothers were eventually transferred to an open home. Meanwhile, this family escaped but was recovered. In a statement, the Foreign Office stated that the repatriation to Serbia could not take place within 28 days of the family's arrival at the closed centre, as required by the Royal Decree, which lays down the modalities of imprisonment in such cases. Mr Secretary of State, could you give me a detailed estimate of the cost to the Belgian State of this imprisonment – in vain – which, I would remind you, lasted almost a month and involved minors? The figure of 26,000 euros was mentioned by some. So I'd like to know the exact figure. Has the family in question finally joined a house of return after passing through the prison or closed centre? Do you think that the procedure, as provided for in the Royal Decree, fulfils its objectives? Indeed, both during the parliamentary visit on 22 June and during the multiple public statements made by the Director of the Office or yourself, these detentions were systematically presented as "last recourse", which reached the end of all the procedures. This was obviously not the case here. Finally, could the family concerned, after the possible exhaustion of the various appeal procedures, be again imprisoned in this family unit at Centre 127bis? If so, would it be again for a maximum period of 28 days?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, I feared for a moment that my questions would have lost topicality, but in view of the recent press releases and articles I can still keep them. First of all, there was or remains a question of a Serbian family in the new closed housing units in Steenokkerzeel pending a possible repatriation. Child rights Commissioner Vanobbergen visited that family and then made a number of observations. Moving on to the newspaper articles of 2 September, it seems that the extended period of two weeks had already started for the family. Recently, I read that a second family that was locked up was released from the center because of psychological problems with the children. Given the vulnerability of minors, I have to ask myself a few questions about the situation of the Serbian family and, if necessary, about the other family, on which you have recently taken a decision. Firstly, the Serbian family would consist of the mother and four children. What's the status of the father? How long is his sentence going to last? Is it true that he will not be admitted by Serbia and she and her children, possibly? Is this about a situation of statelessness? Does it mean that the family may be separated as a result of repatriation or is the father also being repatriated? When? Secondly, a pediatrician who made a place call claimed that there was no adequate psychological guidance. Can you confirm or deny that? If so, why is there no adequate psychological guidance? Thirdly, the Commissioner for Children's Rights refers to an evaluation report to ensure that the psychological and physical integrity of the children is not compromised. Can you tell us more about the content of that report? How is the condition of the minor children assessed and the impact of detention on their physical and mental integrity? Is it true that it is actually a very concise report drawn up on the basis of a very limited study? The report was prepared by the Director-General of DVZ, but was his assessment based on the evaluation carried out by, for example, a multidisciplinary team? If not, why not? Would it not be useful to work with a multidisciplinary team in the future, so that the child's greater importance can be assured, and to introduce a formal evaluation every two weeks? After two weeks the stay can be extended once by two weeks. That would be a good time for an evaluation. Fourthly, how are the effects of the location of the housing units evaluated by DVZ? We know that there is noise, because the centre is next to an approach or departure route from the airport. Fifthly, to what extent is there consultation with the home country on repatriation and to what extent is it guaranteed that the family will be cared for and supervised under decent conditions? If I can believe the press, it's about a woman with four children, all four of whom were born in Belgium. To what extent will the government or some NGO succeed the family after the repatriation? Sixthly, you set up the follow-up committee on return policy, which is to carry out a permanent audit of the procedures. Is that comission following up on the file? If so, how? Does it make recommendations on procedures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, my colleagues have just retraced the dual context, with both the question of the royal decree which was taken by the government and published in the Belgian Moniteur on 1 August 2018 and the situation of this Serbian family who has already stayed for four weeks at the 127bis centre, and who, with the four-week period you fixed in this royal decree being exceeded, has been transferred to an open house. She's gone. She was caught up and it was announced that she would be locked up again at 127bis. It therefore seems important to me today that you can clarify the situation of this Serbian family. Where is she today? Have you made the decision that this family should be locked up again in the 127bis centre or is it now in an open house? Then you published on 1 August 2018 in the Belgian Moniteur this royal decree which sets out the regime and mode of operation of closed centres in relation to families with minor children. And on the content of this royal decree, Mr. Secretary of State, let me tell you that you do not comply in any way with the law of 2011 which clearly enshrined in a Belgian law the principle of the prohibition of the confinement of minors in a closed centre. Whether it is in the legislative system as such or through the discussions and preparatory work of this law, whether it is also – since appeals had been brought – through the position and validation of the Constitutional Court, here, with this royal decree, you completely distort the basic principle of the prohibition of the confinement of minors in closed centres! In fact, this royal decree sets the time limit for confinement at four weeks, that is, two times two weeks. The Council of State points out that this does not guarantee compliance with Article 74/9, § 2 of the Act of 15 December 1980, from which it follows that the duration of maintenance of a family in a closed centre must be as short as possible and be decided only as a last resort when the family includes minors. This is also the result of the Return Directive, which applies both to persons at the border and to persons established in Belgium. In the shortest possible time, reference was generally made to the one necessary for the execution of the removal, taking into account the organization of the flights. All of this obviously has nothing to do with the mention "twice two weeks" that you poured into the royal decree taken by the government on 1 August last. This is not compatible with the principle of the prohibition of detention of minors. Nor does this respect the principle of proportionality, insofar as the rights of the child are disproportionately violated. By amending the principle of the law passed in 2011, which had adapted the law of 15 December 1980, you made a heavy political choice for the families and children concerned. You constantly justify it by explaining that open houses back are not working. I do not share that view. The open house model is not only adapted to the situation of minors, but in many cases gives positive results when an expulsion decision is to be applied. Mr Secretary of State, how do you justify the two-week time limit set out in your royal decree, both in the light of international conventions and the 2011 law, for which not only the legislative framework but also all the preparatory work was very clear as to duration? It cannot in any way be compatible with this four-week period. What measures do you take upstream of the closed centre 127bis, particularly at the level of open houses, to ensure the effectiveness of the mechanism when a decision to expel is taken? The possibility of using open houses suitable for families with children could be much greater, particularly in terms of staff. Is the staff provided with open houses to supervise families with children sufficient? The fact that there are too few staff in open houses can, of course, be at the root of the fact that families would not comply with the decisions of the authorities and the agreements concluded with the Office des Étrangers. Mr Secretary of State, what injunctions have you issued to the Office of Foreigners to ensure that all procedures are carried out in open houses and that all means are used not to lock families with minors in the 127bis centre? What additional measures should be taken to comply with the 2011 Act? In the last few days, you have stated that you want to extend the four-week period of detention of minors. This is totally unacceptable, as this four-week period is not in line with the 2011 Act, nor is it proportionate to these families and children. This undermines the rights of these children and their daily reality. In addition, these houses are flown over by aircraft at the time of take-off. Therefore, the potential impact on the health, at least psychologically, of these children raises questions through confinement and planned structures. CD&V colleagues stated that they would refuse an extension of the four-week deadline provided for in your 2018 Royal Order. That's the least we can expect. Dear Ms. Lanjri, since we were together in 2011, I would like to appeal to the CD&V colleagues to return to the principles, but also to everything that was discussed and validated in 2011, when we enshrined in the law the principle of the prohibition of the confinement of minors and its exception. The latter could only be applied as a last resort and for the shortest possible period of time. Its aim was not to be able to work and take the time of all proceedings but, on the contrary, to be able to apply removal when the expulsion decision was final. It had already been made clear at the time that a seven-day lock-up was far too long and unacceptable within the 127bis, i.e. with imprisoned minors.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u5	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as regards the Serbian family which was locked up in the closed centre of Steenokkerzeel for the purpose of expulsion and which had to be released from it for exceeding the time limit due to a variety of proceedings, you mentioned the following through your beloved social media, and I quote: "On 1 (!) month time the lawyers of the Serbian family started no less than 31 (!) legal proceedings. Only purpose: to exceed the 28-day deadline. Target achieved: family in hiding..." Like you, I find that unheard of. We must then ask ourselves how that is legally possible. Exactly a year ago, on 19 September 2017, the Foreign Law was amended, just to curb such unlawful professions, by imposing a small fine, on the one hand, and by deterring lawyers who are guilty of such practices, on the other. Part of this law has not yet entered into force, in particular the part relating to fines, since, as far as I know, no royal decree regulating that system of fines has yet been issued. Moreover, this law still does not, or hardly does, prevent lawyers from the immigration lobby from producing endless layers of proceedings, so that asylum procedures can be successfully stretched endlessly. One of the reasons for this is perhaps that this law relates only to the Council for Foreigner Disputes. Another reason must of course be sought in the ridiculously low minimum amounts of fines and in the fact that the sanctioning of lawyers who lend themselves to this is laughable. Mr Secretary of State, I have five questions today. Firstly, is it true that there is still no royal decree regulating the system of fines? How come, more than a year after the law was passed? When can we expect that royal decision? Secondly, as far as the specific case of this Serbian family is concerned, can you specify what 31 legal proceedings they have started in one month? Thirdly, do you confirm that no fines have yet been issued for lack of a royal decision? Fourthly, was the possibility of sanctioning the lawyers who conducted these proceedings, as laid down in last year's law, used in this context? Can you clarify that further? Finally, do you agree with our comments back then, in particular that the regulation of the law of 19 September 2017 is not sufficient at all and is not enough deterrent to suppress such useless procedural layers? If not, why not? If so, what do you think are the weaknesses of this law and what initiatives can we expect from you to strengthen the law further, so that it finally becomes effective? I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u6	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the debate on the confinement of a family this summer, at Centre 127bis, has given rise to wide-ranging controversy. It should be recalled that the Act of 16 November 2011 did not at all aim to allow the generalization of the confinement of families and minor children in closed centres. On the contrary, this law, which the Constitutional Court found to be in conformity with the European Convention on Human Rights and the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, instead established the principle of its prohibition. As a result, all those who claimed that this law had opened up the possibility of detaining children were false. The principle of the law was that of prohibition. It is only in special and exceptional cases and in accordance with the provisions of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child (art. 37, b) that detention may be used for very short periods of time, i.e. for a maximum of a few days. This is the principle that the legislator wanted to endorse in 2011. In doing so – I say so because I passed this law at the time, but I do not have merit since I was not the author, the latter coming back to others sitting on the bench here, and in particular on the CD&V – this principle allowed – finally – to comply with the International Convention on the Rights of the Child and the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights and ended administrative practices which were in violation of the principles recalled by international conventions. I would like that once and for all, there is no contempt for the real scope of this law. On the other hand, the provisions of the royal decree made by the present government on 1 August last do not appear to me to be in conformity with the law. I know that appeals have been brought against them, particularly before the Council of State, if my information is good. I hope that these remedies will lead to the annulment of this royal decree, which, in a totally disproportionate manner, extends the exception provided for in the law of 16 November 2011 and which allowed the government to initiate a decision-making process, with regard to the detention of minors, which is highly questionable in the light of the general principles of law that I have recalled or in the light of the provisions of international conventions. I should like to remind you, as an introduction, of this in order to avoid a possible disregard for our position on this matter and for the position of the members who supported this law, which has provided indispensable legal clarifications. Furthermore, I believe that the conditions of detention of children – even in family units adapted to the 127bis centre – do not comply with our obligations under international law. First of all, I do not think that co-habitation of families with persons who have been arrested administratively pending their expulsion or removal meets the requirements of international law. If you wanted to have family units closed for short stays, it would probably have been necessary to design a separate location from the 127bis to organize these very short-term detentions. I will not rule on the case of the family in question, because I do not know it. I'm only asking questions of principle. In any case, to hear those who were brought to visit him, I consider that the conditions for a dignified life were not met. For example, a child psychiatrist alarmed about the conditions under which children were detained. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, we must return to basic principles, in particular by ensuring that you renounce your practice. We all have, more than the impression, but the conviction, that through this highly publicized "example", you wanted to show an alleged firmness. We know that where you should show it, the shortcomings are legion. You prefer the media to the reality of certain obligations. That's why I'm asking you again if you're going to keep this family unit closed at Center 127bis. In addition, will you finally comply with the requirements of the 2011 law as well as the international conventions I have recalled? It would also be interesting to know the cost of accommodation for these families in closed units compared to the cost of accommodation in open centres. In response to one of my written questions, you advanced that between 2010 and October 2016, the escape rate for family housing was approximately 33%. This may seem important, but it is relatively weighted due to the length of the proceedings. Could you confirm to me whether this trend is established or whether other developments have been noted? As far as the daily cost is concerned, you told me that per family, in an open family dwelling, it is of the order of 68.41 euros, compared to 225 euros in a closed centre. Given this difference and the cost to our community, is there no need to explore alternatives to detention other than those already existing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u7	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I will not summarise the actual situation of the two families concerned today or with which the debate has begun. My colleagues have done enough. First of all, I would like to point out that the objective should be the same for everyone, namely effective expulsion or expulsion of people without a right of residence, in accordance with current legislation on aliens. It is indeed about families with children. We probably only disagree on the way that should be done. I would particularly like to stress to our group that the rights of the child must of course be respected at all times. I would remind you that the importance of the child is also included in our legislation. Moreover, in the current state of the legislation, possible detention can only take place in exceptional circumstances and with very restrictive conditions, as far as the time limit is concerned. Our group cannot support an absolute ban on locking up families with children. The ultimate remedy is needed in cases where the other possibilities are not sufficient. In practice, the return from the home appears not to be a success at all. Also the return from open housing units is certainly not conclusive. We note, for example, that last year apparently four out of ten families disappeared. Our group therefore continues to support the decision of the Government's Easter Agreement to create housing units for families with children in Steenokkerzeel. That was also mentioned in the coalition agreement and it was already mentioned in Di Rupo's coalition agreement. The idea came from Mr Wathelet and dates from 2010. Eight years ago, preparations started. This government has turned that ambition into reality. Is it simple? No, of course not. This is not a simple matter. Legal and practical objections still hinder a shared objective. The aim must be to work on solutions and stop playing political games about them. They must be solutions with respect for everyone and with rights for everyone, in particular the rights of vulnerable children. However, we can no longer tolerate people refusing to leave without a valid residence permit. Regularisation is also a thing of the past for us. So the question is how we can make an effective removal policy possible with respect for everyone. I believe that this is a shared objective. It has to be said that the foreign law is still a blur of procedures today. We therefore continue to advocate shorter and more transparent procedures, which have been announced so that people cannot continue to sue. The promised solution is the new migration code. We can close the loopholes in the legislation and prevent the misuse of procedures. That must be the objective today. We could work with one residence file, as some professors are proposing today. Mr Secretary of State, here are a number of questions concerning the two cases in the closed housing units. Can you tell me how many procedures the two families have initiated during their stay in the closed centre? Can you confirm that it concerns 31 procedures? Can you give details of the specific procedures involved? What were these based on? Have these procedures produced any results? Can you explain why it has not been possible to return the Serbian family to the country of origin within the planned period of residence in the closed centre? Were sufficient steps taken to achieve this within this period? Or do you think that period is unrealistic? Do you think that the proceedings of the Serbian family can be placed under the heading'reckless and reckless proceedings'? Can further legislative initiatives be taken to put an end to these procedures correctly? Can you tell us if our country has a readmission agreement with Serbia or Azerbaijan? How do we wish to enforce this in the future? In other words, how can we ensure that countries no longer refuse to take people back? That is an important problem in this matter. What is the current state of the announced new migration code? We have come back to that on a number of occasions in this committee. Is that going to happen in the course of this legislature? You were a great advocate during the previous legislature and so I would like to have a state of affairs. We must ensure that delaying appeal procedures can be avoided. If the number of 31 procedures is correct, then that is also unacceptable to us. How do you view the idea of a single residence file that can be dealt with at once? Do you have any idea why the return policy, with the turtle houses or open housing units, is failing?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u8	Illegality is not a recent problem; it has been dragging on for decades. Depending on the State Secretary responsible, the nature and extent of the problem change. Under Secretary of State Wathelet we had the massive people in hiding who waited for yet another collective regularization, which eventually came. I'm glad you got rid of that. Today we are dealing with another problem, also a result of illegality, an illegality on which we do have this consensus, which we must combat. But if one fights it, it's not good again. Let me put the case in hand, which has been repeated several times. Last month, a Serbian family, of a woman with four children, was the first to be housed in the brand new, closed housing units of 127bis, with, of course, the concrete and acceptable objective of returning the illegal family. I would just like to point out that the family remained stubbornly refusing to return voluntarily, despite the fact that all the procedures applied for had received a negative assessment. I may be doing your job right now, but I'd like to frame that. The facts must not be singled out and presented as if forced return is the only thing you impose on that family. Initially, the family received an order to leave the territory. The family has had weeks and has been framed with all the necessary information for a voluntary return, with support from the Foreign Affairs Service, with support from Fedasil, with support from NGOs. In the first instance, there is always a commitment to an independent return on a voluntary basis. If that does not succeed, the forced return will not follow, but a return coach will first be used to mediate with the family, to convince it to return to the safe homeland on a voluntary, independent basis. It is indeed a safe home country, because the Secretary of State does not give orders to leave the territory to unsafe home countries; then one simply gets the status of asylum, the status of recognised refugee. Fortunately, there are plenty of people going into the offer of voluntary return, but those who do not come into the third phase, to be avoided, we all agree on the forced return. That does not make anyone any better, not the family, not public opinion, nor society. The three phases are all financed by public funds. In the specific case, the mother submitted a new application for asylum on behalf of the children. By taking advantage of the existing procedures - 31 procedures - I have heard here - and because of the stubborn attitude of the family, repatriation could not take place, despite repeated negative decisions. The family was transferred to an open return home, after which it soon disappeared into illegality, but it was retraced and transferred to a closed housing unit. The lawyers are now talking about a witch hunt against the family. However, I am talking about the abuse of law and the waste of public resources. Correct lawyers should also point out this to their clients. They should take the deontological attitude to point this out to their clients. The cat-and-mouse game doesn't make anyone any better, and the family certainly doesn't. I'm gonna hear another moaning from the left side. Mrs. De Coninck, you always talk about the children. Well, those kids don't get any better from illegality either. For the education of a child, illegality is the worst thing there can be. Think of parents forced into prostitution or into undeclared work by their illegal residence status. As President of the OCMW, I see you were, so you know well enough about what situations these people end up in. They end up in crime and have a very pitiful place, because no one knows them and no one can control them. Then a return with a future in the safe country of origin is preferable to the stubborn refusal to return and to hide in illegality. So please stop your repeated complaint about the damaging consequences for the child and your one-sided approach that a stay in a closed accommodation unit would not be in the best interests of the child. Parents also have a responsibility to bear and children should not be used to awaken empathy and to obtain what has been refused many times. Mr Secretary of State, certain organisations speak of inhumane treatment. Can you refute that claim? How do you intend to deal with the abuse of procedures? The family in question, or rather lawyers, has set a bad example and paved the way for all future families who will end up in closed housing units. Is it possible to extend the stay in closed housing units if a family starts new procedures to exceed the 28-day period? I also have a question to which you will not be able to answer, but perhaps after Friday. Is there going to be an increase in the capacity of the closed centres? Perhaps I should not address the question to you, because I know you want it, but I have put it to the other majority parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u9	Colleagues, Mr Franken, as has been said this summer, the first family with minor children was interned in the specific wing of the 127bis centre. Last September 1st was the day of the school year, when all the children found their friends in the courtyard of their school. Together with my colleagues Ben Hamou and Grovonius, we wanted to go to the 127bis centre and meet this family. I know that it is a tradition in this committee to talk about files, and that you like to talk about numbers. By restraint, I'll say it's out of comfort. With my colleagues, we have had extensive discussions with this family. I will take a few seconds to explain to this committee who we are talking about. We're talking about a single mom with four kids. This mother has been in her 30s and has been in Belgium for about ten years. She came here when she was a minor and came from the Roma community. She no longer has any family or friendly ties in her country. His four children were born in Belgium and schooled in our country. They speak Dutch perfectly and know nothing but Belgium. It seemed important to me to see who we were talking about exactly. During this visit, I was able to see the reality of the conditions of detention. I will speak without it being a comment on the quality of the work of the people accompanying this family. I will not say the same thing about the missions entrusted to them, which ask me more questions. This reinforces my view and that of the Socialist Group. This is obvious to us: the place of a child is not behind a fence, nor in a prison, even if it looks like a holiday centre. That is the whole meaning of the bill that the PS introduced a few weeks ago, as I remind you, Mr. Chairman. We would like to have a debate on it and finally proceed to the hearings. This proposal is also in line with the vote already taken by the Socialist Group in 2011 on the text to which Mrs Fonck referred earlier. It was a vote against. We don't lock up the kids. We don't put children behind a fence. We don't put children in jail. Beyond this general consideration, I would like to come back with you to what is apparent from the first application of your policy, Mr Franken. The testimony gathered from the mother and staff of the centre does indeed show that conditions of detention have a real and direct impact on children: loss of sleep, anxiety and noise-related problems. I'm not even talking about the lack of schooling. So these testimonies, these statements, are now finally confirmed since we learned - a few minutes ago - that a family that had been locked up also in the 127bis centre has just been released because one of the children, after four days of internment, is a victim of psychological disorders. So we had testimonies; today we have facts! The period of detention initially set at a maximum of 14 days has been extended without such an extension being based on a multidisciplinary study on the health of children. We are still wondering about the content of this report, its author and the circumstances justifying the extension for a second period of 15 days. You have decided – failing to achieve your goals! – to describe as "abuse of law" the remedies and cases brought by the family with these minor children who, I would remind you, have never known any other country other than Belgium. Abuse of rights is a legal concept that meets a series of criteria that are well-questioned, Mr. Franken, which allows you to invoke them in this case. The family was initially taken back to an open house, from which she fled, before being placed again in a closed centre for a second period of 14 days, which could be extended, and she also joined another locked family. So, Mr Franken, my questions are simple and I think they deserve an answer today. How do you assess the effectiveness of your policy with respect to these families? We have already been able to read in the press what some of your majority's partners think. In a recent interview, the director of the Jesuit Refugee Service (JRS) denounced the theoretical nature of alternatives to detention, which also constitute "houses of return" in view of the budgets that you attribute to them. So how do you envisage correcting this situation? Above all, like Mr Maingain, I would like to know what budgets are allocated to the family wing of the 127bis centre. How has the impact on the children concerned been assessed? In short, Mr Franken, to sum up: are you going to continue in this direction? In this policy, which does not provide a solution, which traumatizes children and which – should we remind you of this? – gives, thanks to or for you, a deplorable image of our country again!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u10	Mr President, I do not know what the intention is. I understand Deputy Prime Minister Jambon is expected here at 3:30 p.m. to answer questions about recruitment to the police. I understand that everyone wants to bring their story, but I would also like to be able to give a comprehensive answer. Given the timing, my answer will have to be limited to a few minutes, which cannot be the intention. Of course, I am pleased that a lot of questions are being asked. There are also many cameras and there is always a congruence between the number of cameras, on the one hand, and the number of questions and the length of the explanations, on the other. I would therefore like to answer the questions for a few minutes, because I believe that this is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u11	We will inform Minister Jambon of this in a moment. Two groups have not yet spoken. They can choose to speak now or during the replies. Mrs Lanjri prefers to speak now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u12	Mr President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, there are, of course, rules and laws in our country, including those relating to asylum and migration policy. There is the foreign law of 1980, which clearly defines who is allowed to enter the country and who is not. We have rules on study migration and family reunification, but also on asylum. This means that some people get to stay here and others, for example, who do not need protection, have to leave the country. The law may be strict, but the law is the law. For people who have to leave the country because they cannot obtain a residence permit here, we would, of course, prefer to put it in the same way as the previous government did on voluntary return with guidance. We are fully committed to voluntary return. We also believe that this is the most sustainable form of return. However, we are not naive and we also know that a certain group will not succeed in its voluntary return, no matter how long it is tried. In some cases, therefore, more stringent measures must be taken. It is also true that effective detention is possible for adults. However, when it comes to children, we are dealing with a very vulnerable group. For us, and perhaps for everyone, it is clear that the best interests of the child must always be paramount. I hear colleagues here today talking about the detention of families with children as if that were the first time in August 2018. I'd like to go back to a not that far past anyway. It is also evident from reports from the sector, such as the report of the Platform children on the run. How did it happen in the past? Until 1998, families with underage children were detained at the border in closed centres in our country. The 1980 Law stipulated that. So that was possible and so did people. Until 1998, families at the border were held in closed centres, in Belgium. Between 1998 and 2001, tactics changed. Then one of the parents was held at the border, while the family was released. However, at the time when people had to be repatriated, they often did not show up and the repatriation did not go on. That is why after 2001 it was decided to hold the whole family. I give you a number of figures on decisions taken by previous governments. You may ask questions about these figures and ask how we have achieved such results, but they come from the sector and may even be an understatement. In 2005, 247 families with children were placed in a closed center. In 2006, 399 families were affected and in 2007 at least 188 families were affected. These 188 families correspond to 398 children. So in 2006 at least 800 children were taken care of in a closed center. We hate to hear it, but that's how it happened in the past. At some point, our country was condemned by the European Court of Human Rights because we locked these families with children in centres that were not adapted to the conditions for families with children. Then we have tried to do this in a different way with the Turtle Houses. Until then, however, it was still legally possible to lock families with children in a closed center. That is why in 2010 I tabled a legislative proposal, which was adopted by a large majority in 2011, aimed at preventing families with children from being locked up in principle because we knew that this was traumatic. We knew that this should be avoided as much as possible. I do say "maximum', because the proposal included "as the European Union allows' to allow, in exceptional circumstances, detention for families who refused all attempts at voluntary return and guidance. I specifically called in the bill to work on alternatives and an agreement with DVZ, who had to employ a coach to guide families with children to return from their own homes. Those were the provisions of the bill that was passed; you can look it up. Now we are talking about exceptions. We prefer to use this stick behind the door as little as possible. We have also always said that confinement should be as short as possible. Eventually, the government reached an agreement before the summer to limit it to two weeks, possibly renewable by two weeks, but that period should not be completely completed. As far as we're concerned, more like a couple of days than two weeks. That's our principle. Moreover, it is not just now that the closed centres are being built. The construction of the closed units was already foreseen during previous governments. In 2009, Mr Wathelet wanted to start building 34 residential units. In 2011, the government had already earmarked funds for its construction. However, problems with land drainage and budgetary problems have delayed construction and it is only for this government to carry out the construction of five houses. The spirit of the law adopted at the time must be respected, as mentioned by Mr Maingain and Mrs Fonck. We must continue to say that we do not, in principle, lock up families with children. Let us make every effort not to do so. Only if there is absolutely no alternative will we have to do so, and we will have to keep it as a stick behind the door, and if we have to, only for a few days. The situation today is that these houses have been built and comply with European regulations, which stipulate that they can only be done in the very last instance and for as short a period as possible. Incarceration must take place in a separate accommodation rather than in other adults, attention must be paid to leisure activities, games and recreation, the necessary staff and facilities must be tailored to the children staying there and the best interests of the child must always be taken into account. That is what the 2008 Directive states.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u13	Mrs Lanjri, can you come to your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u14	I'll ask my questions now. We support the 2008 directive. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u15	I wanted to dot the i, because it's important that you know the context. Mr Secretary of State, I have the following questions. Firstly, can you give an update on the family situation? After all, there are more than one. I think there's three of them. How's their situation going so far? Secondly, what efforts are you making to convince families, above all, of a voluntary return? I am talking not only about the voluntary return from the closed centre, but also at the stage before that. I believe that there is a need for further efforts. I hear, among other things, from the Commissioner for Children's Rights, that even more needs to be put into the coaches at the open houses, so the turtle houses. We need to invest much more in guidance there. Thirdly, how are the children succeeded in the center 127bis? That's what happens today with coaches from DVZ itself. However, I agree with what Mrs De Coninck has said and I believe that, as in the United Kingdom, we should work on an external multidisciplinary team of experts, with a doctor, a psychologist and so on, which is complementary to DVZ's coaches at certain times. For example, there may be initial or weekly consultation with the coaches and an external team should also follow the children. I have just stressed that the period of confinement should be as short as possible. The Council of State confirmed this once again when you presented the royal decree to them. If the coaches find that confinement has a negative effect on the well-being of a child, I suggest that one should not wait 14 days before transferring that family to an open center, but that this happens as soon as one finds out. I would therefore ask you to intervene more quickly so that those concerned do not have to stay there for 14 days. Staying in a closed centre should preferably be as short as possible and if a transfer to an open reception centre is possible, this should be done. Again, the stay in a closed center should preferably be as short as possible. Finally, we certainly cannot agree to insert a kind of pause button, whereby, when a person submits a procedure, the time limit is extended indefinitely. We don't even do that for adults, let alone children. Think of the Council of State's remark that the deadline should be limited to the maximum. I agree with you, Mr Secretary of State, when you say that the abuse of procedures must be dealt with. Indeed, 31 procedures cannot be carried out. We've already dealt with some abuses. However, how do we tackle abuses at the very last stage? We do not want you to prolong the duration, but we do want you to deal with the abuses. Kids shouldn't be the victims of this. The President: We have just informed Minister Jambon's cabinet that it is better for the Minister to come later, because now the Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u16	I am very pleased with Mrs Lanjri's speech, which is not always the case. That is why we are in the majority together. Things can change in a few days. I am certainly very pleased that a historical outline of the situation of the closed family provision in Steenokkerzeel is given. It is a story of the past, both legally and operationally. It is a story in which, with the exception of one or two political groups, everyone has been involved in its implementation, both in the legal and operational field. That is why it bears witness to a lack of accuracy and intellectual honesty, when this is now denied. According to Mr Maingain, whom I have listened carefully, it is against human rights, against the Convention on the Rights of the Child and against international law that we would lock up families with children. Nothing could be further from the truth. That is absolutely not right. That is absolutely not correct. As Mrs Lanjri rightly points out, the 2011 law allows the imprisonment of families with children in exceptional circumstances. [[Consultation]] Mrs. Lanjri, you have to listen carefully. I've listened to you very carefully, and now it's up to me. That law allows that. Mr Maingain, I have listened very carefully. In 2013, the Constitutional Court, in its judgment No. 166/2013, roll number 5468, approved that principle in all possible ways. There is no violation of any international rule of law. There is no violation of any convention, not of the ECHR, not of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and not of the European Return Directive. Saying the opposite is absolutely not correct. The decision is perfectly legitimate. There is no legal problem at all. That's why we win all the cases. There have been 31 procedures. We win everything. We're gonna keep winning everything, too. Legally, there is no problem. Many NGOs or other organisations may still go to the Council of State and to the Court of Appeal, appeal or walk to the Constitutional Court. It's up to them. The case is already closed. It has already been judged on the substance by the highest court in the country. That judgment was positive. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you are referring to the case of the Serbian family. It looks like you know the file better than I do, but what you're saying is absolutely not correct. In the case of individual files, you should always be extremely careful, especially if you do not have the file. Personally, I have the file and I can assure you that what you say is not correct. There are many family ties in the country of origin, contrary to what you say. As always, I listened well to what you said. That is absolutely not correct. Furthermore, as I said, I am pleased that a historical sketch of the dossier has been made. It was initiated by Mr Wathelet of the cdH. I know it's hard to keep denying that. You're making a good effort, Mrs. Fonck, but it won't work anyway. It is all written in writing in the file at the Foreign Affairs Office since Mr Wathelet was Secretary of State. The closed housing units were tendered under the previous government, under Mr Di Rupo. In short, I think that there is a lack of intellectual honesty in this area, in which there is now a shame, because these housing units are being converted into practice. Detention in closed centres is permitted by the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, provided that it is adapted to the needs of families with women and minor children. This information is contained in the report to the King on the royal decree in question. Family housing located on the grounds of the 127bis centre corresponds to this situation. All the amenities put in place are also described in the same report to the King. However, the following measures have been taken. Each family has its own accommodation, in order to preserve family unity and privacy. A garden has been set up, in which children can play all day. A full service centre has been built on the housing grounds, so that families should not return to the centre to discuss with the coach, be followed medically, etc. Children are in school and various activities are carried out by educators. Toys are available. The family can cook themselves. In terms of security, surveillance is less visible than in a closed centre, from which families are separated. They can be approached by a psychologist present in the centre. In addition, intercentre psychologists can provide additional support. Coaches also provide the necessary support. Second, noise standards are not exceeded. Various measures were taken: the noise of the landings was measured on 22 November 2017 and the noise of the take-offs on 6 February 2018. The noise standard above which protective measures are to be taken is 80 decibels and has not been exceeded. The measured noise level was 74 decibels. However, ear plugs and noise-resistant helmets are available. So we have taken into account the story of possible noise damage. Measurements have been made. The limit of 80 dB was not exceeded. Yet we have provided hearing protection. It is always available, even though no problem has been identified at this level in the case of measurements carried out by a company. With regard to the retention period, in the case of a retention, removal shall be organised as soon as possible and in accordance with the legal provisions. This is the first principle to be respected. The time limit and maximum duration must be respected. If, after their arrival in the family housing units, the persons concerned initiate new procedures to cancel their removal, the retention period may actually last two weeks and be extended to four weeks. As always, in terms of maintenance, the behaviour of the person concerned has an impact on his or her duration. As long as the appeal periods are to be respected and the behaviour of the persons concerned has an influence, a maximum of four weeks is to be maintained in the family housing units located in the closed enclosure of the centre. I repeat, moreover, that the speed of removal depends on the behaviour of the persons concerned themselves. Repatriation was arranged as soon as possible after the expiry of the suspensive period for removal and after confirmation of the decision to expel in extreme urgency. A child has, however, applied for asylum. I would like to point out that the family was transferred to FITT accommodation after a one-month stay in one of the family homes at Centre 127bis after their lawyer filed a suspensive appeal against the asylum application rejected in charge of the children. The family could have left the family housing at any time if it had terminated the procedures it had introduced to prevent its removal. They could have left the family home at any time if they had stopped the self-inflicted procedures to prevent their removal. Their departure was organised within the shortest possible time, i.e. after the suspension period for the removal and after the decision of the removal was confirmed by UDN. However, an asylum application was made for a child. The family was indeed transferred to a FITT unit after 28 days, after one month's stay in a single-family home in the center 127bis, after their lawyer filed a suspensive appeal against the asylum application rejected in respect of the children. Those concerned were required to appear before the RV on 13 September. On the morning of 13 September, the coach who would accompany those involved to the court found that the persons concerned had left the FITT house. Those concerned also did not appear at the session of the Supervisory Board. The shorter retention periods for family homes in the areas of 127a that differ from the retention periods in the Aliens Act do not take into account the initiation of suspensive asylum procedures. The law does not prescribe a specific retention period for families, but it does stipulate that detention should be as limited and short as possible, in accordance with the European legal framework and the legal framework of the ECHR. With the deletion of the 2 + 2 weeks period and the Royal Decree of 2 August, it is avoided that the simple submission of additional procedures can circumvent the limited retention period included in the Royal Decree. In that sense, we should at least think about adapting the RB, because of course there is no point. For example, one could work with an instruction to the services which enforces the shorter retention period laid down by the law and which places respect for the child's interests first. I'm just going over the 31 procedures on 30 days: 1 UDN procedure at the RV, which was rejected; 5 applications for release from the courtroom, all rejected; 4 applications for asylum, the appeal to the RV is pending, rejected by the CGV as manifestly unfounded; 1 application for free legal aid; 5 unilateral proceedings before the RV, all rejected on third parties; 5 appeals to the Board of Appeal, all terminated without object; 1 application to the Board Chamber, rejected; 1 appeal to the RV, pending; 4 further appeals to the Board Chamber, rejected; 4 appeals to the RV in full jurisdiction in asylum, still pending. The time limits for appeals were always fully awaited. So that's 31 out of 30 days. Meanwhile, other families were locked up in the family home. The evaluation of the detentions after 14 days, provided for in the Royal Decree, has shown that the continued detention is not appropriate for one of these families. On the basis of the evaluation, it was therefore decided not to keep the family further in the closed centre and to transfer it to a FITT housing unit. That is what we are working on at the moment. The interview with the CGVS for the asylum application was also planned for today. This proves that the control mechanisms provided by the RB are working. When families see that a family can initiate up to 31 procedures, they of course start copying that procedure. Such news goes around in that world, too. They are therefore trying to submit some more applications, so that the 28-day period is certainly exceeded. After 12 or 13 days I will receive a psychological report and another health report on the situation of the family. I received it in connection with that family. On the basis of these two elements, I decided to transfer the family concerned to the FITT house today. I think it is a good decision, which shows that we are looking at cases on a case-by-case basis, that things are being properly monitored, both by our people and by the medical teams, and that we are also looking at what is best for the child, for the family and for the children concerned. So it's not just about a piece of paper with a psychological analysis, which I'm putting next to me, because I'm allowed to lock the family up for another 14 days. Mrs Lanjri, I take such cases seriously, as is proven by the fact that I took the dossier seriously today. In view of the fact that the family concerned can in any case exceed the 28-day period again, I will no longer hold on to it. If, according to the analyses, the psychological and medical situation is not optimal, we must bear in mind the importance of the child. So I am doing what the Royal Decree determines and what was always the philosophy of the 2011 Act of the Government Agreement and of the previous months' discussions: the imprisonment of families with children, to which we have once again decided. That is a very difficult and very sensitive matter. If, for ten years, no more families are locked up and we start again, people will know that. There were hundreds of incarcerations before, but that's exactly what everyone forgot. That is why it is recalled. When we start to do such incarcerations again, we will do them very exceptionally. After all, it is a very delicate matter. Whether one is left or right-wing, when it comes to children, things are always different, harder and more sensitive. Everyone knows that, I hope. That is why we follow things very closely, we approach things very correctly and we try to regulate things in a good way and in a good, correct framework. However, we do point out that incarceration is possible in a last, exceptional circumstance, for example when all procedures have been completed and the family has fled the FITT house twice. It is argued that more should be done on return guidance. Those coaches don't do anything else. However, those concerned do not want to return voluntarily. They don't want to go back. There are people who just don't want to go back. They exist. I understand some people can't believe that, but they can. You can believe me. Talk to people on the ground, who have been doing the return guidance in the FITT homes for years. Why don't you talk to them? It is also often a revolving door situation. The families, often large families, leave the homes. They stand out from the police forces and are often caught up again very quickly. They then come back to the FITT house, but they still don't want to go back to the country of origin and then they're on the street again. Coaches will have to find out that that family is back in town. They don't want to go back, but it's the law. Now we have at least one stick behind the door. Is that fun? No, that's not funny. I do not think anyone in the room likes to lock up families with children, but it is necessary and it is good that it is there, even though the current framework is not optimal at the moment, because the 28-day period, purely through procedures, can be exceeded through the asylum application. There is not much wrong with the procedures themselves. Mrs. Pas, we don't need a KB. They are applicable, but it is up to the RV to speak on this matter. That's an independent agency. I can only ask you to do that. It is not up to me, but to the Council to do so or not. An application for asylum may be made. That is so determined in international law. Since the new European Asylum Procedure Directive, children can also apply for asylum. What was the idea of the European Parliament and the European Commission? A family from Pakistan, including a 17-year-old boy, is coming here. It may be that this family's application for asylum is refused, but the seventeen-year-old boy may have his own asylum story. It was therefore considered that children should be able to apply for asylum separately. It was never intended to be a two-year-old Serbian baby, because that is absurd. How the hell can he explain to the Commissioner-General that he has been threatened and cannot go back to Serbia? That doesn't make any sense, does it? That was never the intention of the European Parliament's law. When we read the report from that time, we were talking about a 16-year-old or 17-year-old who may have experienced other things in the home country than the parents and may need protection. For the extended reception rights in the Fedasil centres, this scheme is now being used to stay longer in the shelter and to enjoy the bed-bath-bath-bread measures. It's been going on for months. Lawyers know that. It's going around like a bonfire. Now all the lawyers are starting to apply for asylum for the children. What the hell are we doing? Mr Francken, it is said that the law is being adjusted. That's European. I can't change anything. That's a higher standard of law. The directive needs to be amended. The Prime Minister is now in Vienna. I believe that the European asylum acquis can be adapted. I have no objection to that. We can therefore reform the Dublin regulation, because we have been at it for four years and it is not really working, and that is euphemistically speaking. The opinions of the European Member States are rather contradictory. However, we are not giving up, I am not defeatist. I'm just making an analysis of the situation. Now I come to the figures on the average retention duration. The average retention time in housing, expressed in days, is as follows: in 2014, 19; in 2015, 26; in 2016, 27; in 2017, 19. That is in a table, which I will not read in full. I may be able to deliver them to you, Mr President. These family homes serve as the ultimate solution when all other options have been exhausted. The Foreign Office is doing everything it can. The number of FITT housing units has already been increased to 28. The number of dwellings was 22 in 2012. In 2013 there were 23, in 2014 26, which are 170 beds. In 2015 there were 27, with 170 beds; in 2016 26 with 151 beds. It's about the number of beds in the FITT homes. In 2017, there were 28 with 168 beds. I would remind you that families are already being monitored before they are locked up and are being supervised in open housing. In their accommodation, it is also examined whether they can be granted a right of residence. All options have therefore already been reviewed at the time of their confinement. Initiating new procedures is only used to cancel the removal, whereas it is inevitable. In open housing, families are actively encouraged to leave. If they so wish, they can receive all necessary support before and after their return. We offer them one also during their stay in open accommodation. The family in question left the house twice, and again very recently, and refused all the return aids that had been offered to him. As regards the families brought to a family home, I would like to point out once again that they have already been followed up and given a framework during their stay in the open housing units. During that stay it will also be examined whether a stay is possible. For families transferred to a family home, therefore, all possible solutions to their situation were thoroughly examined. Rebooting procedures is therefore only done to prevent the removal, which is the only last solution. If these families so wish, the necessary support will be provided on and after the return. This possibility is also mentioned during the stay of the family in the open housing units. The mother is convinced that she can stay in Belgium. DVZ doesn't deal lightly with those families. The removal procedure will not be started until there are no other options. They are here in illegal residence, they often live here in miserable conditions, often on the streets. A framed return, accompanied by a home, school and work on arrival in the country of origin, is therefore, in my opinion, a much better option for those families. If the stay is not allowed and the alternatives to removal without detention are exhausted and the persons concerned continue to persist in the non-follow-up of an order to leave the territory, then there must be an opportunity to remove those families humanely. The decision to do so through a family home in a closed setting, adapted to the needs of underage children, was already taken in 2009. It has taken so far to make the necessary arrangements. Instead of questioning the principle again, I would therefore appreciate the fact that one would check whether the execution of the detention and removal complies with 'a setting adapted to the needs of children' and is done humanely. It would be in the interests of those concerned that lawyers, NGOs, the Commissioner for Children's Rights and the Federal Ombudsman should clearly and correctly inform those concerned that, given the illegal situation, a stay in Belgium is not possible and that it is best to return to the country of origin with support. There too, there is a responsibility. This is a two-way story. There is a responsibility of all the partners, of the lawyers, of the NGOs, of the Ombudsman and of the Commissioner for Children's Rights to make it clear to the families so far that everything has been tried and that there is no other solution. It is said that there is not enough coaching and that one still has to ask whether they may not want to return voluntarily, but that has been asked to the point of sadness. They've had so many return calls. It's like the transit migrants. I once had a debate on this with Mr Calvo. The solution for him was to ask them more to apply for asylum. We modified the folder. We sent teams out. But they do not ask for asylum, dear people, they do not want to stay in Belgium. When I say that, no one believes me, apparently. But talk to the people on the premises. You shouldn't take it from me. Talk to the people on the ground who work every day with those people, with those migrants. Talk to it, it's very interesting, it's highly recommended. It is always repeated: you have not made enough efforts. We do not know what efforts have been made in recent years to get these people back. They don't want to go back! And then there's these hundred organizations... how many are they? They're innumerable, it's incredible... all these organizations say it's all the government's fault, that we're inhumane. They can start as many procedures as they want, we will win this! Legally, they don't have a leg to stand on. However, civil society also has a social responsibility to tell these families that there is no point anymore. In whose interest is it actually, 31 procedures start in 30 days? After these people have gone through dozens of procedures in recent years. They've been on trial for years. We have been working on this for years! In whose interest is that? What is the real point of this? What is the real purpose of this? I'm wondering. Social responsibility is on both sides, dear people. I think that the analyses I have read and heard in recent weeks are very one-sided. Anyway, fortunately, a large part of the population knows better. The operational costs of the family homes in the closed centre are currently difficult to calculate. For the five houses provided within the perimeter of 127bis, it has already been answered here that you should address the question of the exact cost to the Buildings Regie. That's not my jurisdiction. It's Minister Jambon's. The cost of running the houses will be calculated by analogy with the cost of operating the closed centres. Given that family homes are only operational for one month, it is too early to make this exercise. As regards the system of fines for unlawful court cases at the RV, the collection is done by the Administration of Registration and Domains. This method of collection was taken over at the time of the legislative amendment last year. The methodology has therefore remained unchanged. This fine could also be imposed and collected before. The amendment concerned simplifying the procedure at the RV to impose such a fine and the amount of the fine. It used to have to be in two procedures, in two sessions. Now it can be done in one sitting, so it can be pronounced immediately if a fine is imposed. No fines were imposed in this file by the Council for Foreigner's Disputes. It is also the Council that can decide to impose such a fine for manifestly unlawful action. It's up to the Council, not me. It is up to the staff member to sanction lawyers or the Legal Assistance Office to decide as a sanction to reduce the number of points to be paid for a pro-Deo appointment. I have no authority in that regard. Indeed, this dossier shows that re-launching procedures is a problem for the removal of families. As regards the abuse of procedure in the Serbian family file, the removal in the event of detention is organised as quickly as possible within the legal provisions. The family concerned had received a travel document immediately after the decision of the RvV and a flight was booked before the first 14 days had elapsed. Those concerned refused to leave, a new asylum procedure was initiated by the children and the detention in a family home was extended from two to four weeks. The attitude of the parties themselves therefore has an impact on the term of detention. The families brought to the family homes are already being monitored and framed during their stay in the open housing units. During that stay it will also be examined whether a stay is possible. For the families who were taken to a family home, therefore, all possible solutions to their situation were examined, including for this family, which already stayed twice in the open housing units. Coaches have already offered all the possibilities for return support. The woman was not open to any conversation regarding the return. Restarting procedures is therefore purely to prevent disposal, which is the only possible solution. Given the too short confinement period and the possibilities to initiate procedures, effective removal is very difficult. Evaluation therefore shows that the restriction in the Royal Decree prevents effective removal. We must do something about this, but the government will continue to discuss how best to do it. I understand from colleagues that there are different ideas. Mrs Gabriels, Mrs Lanjri and colleagues from MR, consider how we can do this more efficiently. If one makes it so that they can legally exceed 28 days anyway, then they will always be trapped for 28 days, unless there are health problems after 14 days. That is exactly the opposite of what the law had in mind, so we need to see how we can remedy it. Of course I would prefer to repatriate after one or two days, but they will only do so when they know that there is no point in continuing to sue. Otherwise they will start 30, 50 or 100 procedures if they have to, because some lawyers are not convinced. They are as convinced of their equals as the government is convinced of the way we think the best. I've been working on this for four years, so believe me, I know it by now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u17	I would ask that the replies be kept within two minutes, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, with the exception of the interplay and for Mr Flahaux, who has not yet spoken.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, you asked who it was to bring such an action. As Mrs Fernandez pointed out, the Albanian family in question is Roma, of a clearly discriminated minority in Albania. In Amnesty International's latest 2017/18 report on Albania, it says: "Many Roma remain exposed to forced evictions." This is the situation of the Roma you want to return to Albania. You did not answer my question about your reaction to the many criticisms expressed by the United Nations Agency for Refugees (UNHCR). You didn't say a word about it. UNHCR stated: "This practice of detention of children is harmful and violates the International Convention on the Rights of the Child in many respects." These statements come from the UN and not from Ecolo-Groen, nor from ICRÉ. When you say that your practices, your royal decree, are not contrary to the principles of international law, the United Nations says the opposite. I would still like to point out a gigantic paradox. About ten days ago, we were discussing the release or expulsion of Safet Rustemi. Secretary of State, you realize that you lock up children and release criminals! What a paradox! You, the Secretary of State, who are going to "bring order into asylum policy", are strong with the weak and weak with the strong. What is the meaning of a policy that, for reasons that belong to you, you lock up children and release criminals? This was the case in some closed centres, such as Merksplas, where migrants in transit replaced criminals who were to be expelled. Your policy of detaining children is contrary to international law and fundamental rights, as the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees tells us, but it is also contrary to common sense because it is ineffective. You locked up a family with three children for 28 days. And after 28 days, you had to release her. What is the meaning of undermining the fundamental rights of minors in the name of a policy of confinement which, in the end, did not result in anything strictly because they were not returned anyway? Asylum and migration policy must be guided by the principle of proportionality. This means that basically, criminals must be locked up and children released. If you need help developing a proportionate asylum and migration policy, read what the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees tells you!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u19	Mr President, I will not go back to my remarks. Clearly, the Secretary of State did not listen to what I said. I explained in substance the 2011 law in a precise way while pointing out that it was in conformity with international conventions. On the other hand, Mr Secretary of State, I contest the regularity and legality of the royal decree that you and your government took this summer, in the light of these international conventions and, in particular, the abnormally long period of time that it allows in terms of the detention of families and minor children: four weeks, since you can extend the period once two weeks. The demonstration is that the extension is of no use whatsoever. This abnormally long period does not contribute to the alleged removal measures you want to take. And don't say it's kind of a favor! In fact, that's because you had simply reached the maximum time limit allowed by your wrong stop! As a result, even within this abnormally long time frame, you were unable to carry out the removal measures you wanted to impose on this family. It is therefore the total failure of administrative practice voting. You just wanted to set an example. In the middle of the summer, you wanted to exist through a media effect, but you attacked a family and especially children. When you conduct a policy to make advertising effects and only to get rid of a certain electorate, which is believed to be flattered, while you do not respect your own regulations which, in the end, is exaggerated, let me say that it is unworthy of the function you are performing! Moreover, it may be time for you to take care of the real problems, that is to say, those who must be expelled because they are dangerous criminals and you are freed because you prefer to keep your steps in those of a Salvini rather than those of those who want to uphold the obligations of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, for once it is not the fault of the Socialists, it is the fault of civil society, the lawyers, Europe. I thought you said you'd solve the problem. Mrs Lanjri, as far as history is concerned, I am referring to a very good article in Mo. It can be concluded that all parties, in 2011 on-going cases, agreed to lock children in special situations in emergency situations. There was only discussion about what these conditions should be, how many days that could happen and in what infrastructure. Mr Secretary of State, you are making a caricature of that fact. Your assertion that some people do not want to respect the law is not true. That was the scope of the agreement at the time. For the sake of clarity, I have always tried to be clear and consistent in this committee as a Socialist and have taken responsibility for this. I think that at that time I think Mrs Smeyers made that point on the basis of a long-term vision. What bothers me most today is the procedural mess. I can now hear you say that it is a very delicate matter and that it concerns vulnerable people, but I do not see that attitude in your communication and your tweeting behaviour. You only use those words in committee. It is not unimportant to make this clear to the public as well. It also bothers me, Mr Secretary of State, that you do not accept political responsibility if something goes wrong. You say DVZ and the civil servants made mistakes. Mr Secretary of State, the officials and the services are under pressure. You're giving orders. You have expectations. You can't blame them for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u21	Can you finish, Mrs. De Coninck?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u22	Mr President, I am already working in telegram style. I had prepared a much longer piece. I kept my questions brief. I have two more points. Mr Secretary of State, your policy is becoming more and more like a carnival with merry-go-rounds. I see three. First of all, Rustemi has been deported to his homeland without penalty. Secondly, children are locked up in centres with their parents, released and locked up again. Thirdly, illegal immigrants in Merksplas, who actually need to be returned to their homeland, are released. For example, they go back to Kortrijk. The police have to put them in a van there and take them back to Merksplas. What's fundamental? I'll present you a quote of your own from a newspaper. In a newspaper interview you said: "I stand for a humane asylum policy, because that is a correct policy. The most important work I want to do over the next five years is to rewrite the Belgian Migration Code. The current is completely unreadable and the procedures are so complex that families are often completely integrated when they are told that their story is over. Okay, you can say they keep suing themselves. But you can't blame people for exhausting all legal remedies. So the big challenge is shortening the procedures. Actually, people should know what they're up to in six months. Then you don't get those heartbreaking stories anymore." You said that on November 22, 2014 in Het Laatste Nieuws. I hear you've written a book and will publish it. Mr Secretary of State, rewrite the Migration Code. That's what you're paid for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u23	Mr Secretary of State, what concerns me when we look at the way in which you conduct your policy over the last three months is the "two-weight, two-step" between families with children and criminals whom you decide to release when they should have been expelled. You are now developing a form of harassment on these families. Above all, you should develop a relentless attitude towards criminals for whom, as we saw a few days ago and a few months ago, a whole new policy would have been indispensable. This form of harassment on families is intriguing because you keep saying, "I respect the rules." No! The 2011 law is very clear. At that time, there had been discussions on the length of time during which this exception could be made to the principle of the prohibition of the detention of minors, which was to be carried out as a last resort, in exceptional situations, provided that all other means had been used upstream and for the shortest possible period of time. I remember. The PS, in particular, had tabled an amendment to allow for a seven-day lock-up. Secretary of State Wathelet – I have the report in front of me – said that we could not imagine that the families would be locked up in Steenokkerzeel for a period of seven days. It was, he said, far too long. Conversely, all possible and conceivable procedures had to be used upstream. You have made the choice in this government to take a royal decree published this summer 2018 and which is a real turning point. From the principle of prohibiting the confinement of families with minors to a right for the Office of Foreigners to detain minors for a period of four weeks. You choose the path of ease, which also seems to me to be that of harassment towards families. Not only is this route, in my view, disproportionate to the reality of children and their situation of vulnerability, but it is also not in conformity with the 2011 law. I am taking a major step in support of this statement, namely the opinion of the Council of State on your royal decree. The central question is whether this Government is giving itself sufficient means to prevent all confinement of families with minors. In my opinion, the answer to this question is clearly "no"! Does the Office of Foreigners now have sufficient resources, especially in terms of personnel and human resources, to ensure that the functioning and supervision of these families really enable them, when a final expulsion decision is made, to obtain the return – and even the voluntary return, if possible – of these families? You're going to tell me that some families refuse voluntary return. That's probably true; I'm not questioning your claims. But is it possible for them, even if they repeatedly evade the authorities, not to be locked up? Yeah, I think it's possible. But we have to afford it. On the one hand, in open houses, and on the other hand, by the use of alternatives; I am thinking in particular of the election of a guarantor or the wearing of the parental electronic bracelet, in totally exceptional and special situations. Mr. Chair, I will naturally table a motion as I have an inquiry. However, before concluding, I would like to add a few more words. Mr. Secretary of State, one of your comments shocked me. You point out to civil society, to associations, that it is their fault if you fail to carry out an effective policy in this area. I think this is totally unacceptable! Is it normal for these families to want the best for their children? The answer is, of course, yes. Is it the role of the associations to play the gendarmerie and do the work instead of the Office of Foreigners to ensure voluntary return, see even expulsion? The answer is "no". It's not their role, it's your responsibility! With the tabling of this motion, Mr President, I call for a very clear principle of prohibiting the confinement of families with minors, to be used only exceptionally, as a last resort, in the case of families who fail to comply with the authorities, by applying all the alternatives in advance and for a period of not more than 72 hours. In addition, I am also making a series of proposals to develop alternatives to open house keeping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u24	Mr Secretary of State, I referred to the law of 19 September 2017, which you said was intended to curb the illegal professions. The intention was to press down useless procedural blows. The first observation today is that this legislation is certainly not enough. Of course, you cannot prevent anyone from applying for asylum, but of the 31 procedures in one month that you mentioned, there were many others that were totally useless and could have been prevented, if there was a sufficient deterrent effect on lawyers. My second observation is this. You announced your intention to take initiatives on the period for families. We note this umpteenth announcement, but we await what will come of it. I remember at the beginning of this legislature the announcement to tighten up family reunification for asylum seekers. If there is a decent result, I certainly hope that it will have a different outcome than, for example, the proposal on the search for illegal immigrants, of which nothing will be found in this legislature. Thirdly, I would like to hear Mrs Gabriels say that, in the end, everyone agrees that the aim should be to effectively proceed to expulsions, in accordance with the foreign law. I would like to hear Mr Smeyers say that illegality must be combated. However, my third observation is that illegal residence on the territory is indeed a criminal offence, and I wonder why this crime is never prosecuted. Why is it that there is no active investigation policy and that illegal immigrants are released again? If illegality is to be tackled effectively, another radical policy will have to be pursued, with tracking, picking up and deporting. That is absolutely missing today. I have heard the coat rack of Europe again because of the Secretary of State. The latest figures from the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless show that for this country of all orders to leave the territory only 16.3% is actually carried out. Apparently the other countries in Europe manage to organise this better, because at 16.3% we are among the worst in Europe, the fourth worst, to be precise. Finally, here's what I'm gonna do. Mr De Coninck referred to the book of the Secretary of State, which will be published shortly. I suggest he take over one sentence from his previous publication. In 2012 he gave an analysis of Mrs De Block's expulsion and immigration policy in Belgium, country without borders. Mr Secretary of State, you said literally: "Don't be fooled: the return policy remains the Achilles tendon." We're six years later today. Four years with you in office, but nothing has changed in that regard. I might as well say today that we should not be fooled, because the return policy remains the Achilles heel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u25	Mr Secretary of State, I made our position clear when I introduced my question on the principle. We have received an answer to a number of questions concerning the actual situation of the two families. I am pleased that the majority parties remain in favour of government policy. The actual situation, 31 procedures on 30 days, is indeed totally irresponsible. I believe that today we have not addressed enough the question of how we can avoid such a situation in the future. How can we prevent delaying appeals? In this context, I will also put a number of questions in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u26	Mr Secretary of State, you continue to receive criticism from the two extreme angles. It may sound simple, but it might be better to think about concrete and workable solutions. You have clearly outlined the boundaries at which you are colliding, taking into account the existing regulations and EU directives. It is never good either: it is not good to lock up illegal immigrants, but it is also good to do nothing. There's a need for increased capacity, that's for sure. That's what the government will be negotiating on Friday. I call on the majority colleagues to support the increase in capacity. It is the only way to work constructively together on the problem of illegality. I would like to stress once again, Mrs De Coninck, how bad it must be for children to live in illegality. I repeat, the parents have a responsibility in this too. Society has a responsibility to combat illegality, but parents have parental responsibility, individually, to their children. If they opt for illegal residence status, they are themselves exploited in undeclared work and prostitution, and they end up in crime. I would like to see a study on this, on how bad it is for the welfare of a child. Perhaps the Commissioner for Children's Rights should look into this. Of course, confinement in any unit and the whole return procedure also has an impact on a family, but society must take measures and lay down rules, which are preferably followed afterwards. It's a fucking tough department. It's about people. However, the negative decision of the independent bodies resulting in a return has been taken. We simply have to follow up on this, not just us, but also the families. I would like to stress once again how disastrous it is to leave the children in illegality, much worse than they are as short a time as possible, as Mrs Lanjri said more than once to keep them in a closed housing unit in order to return to their safe homeland.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u27	Mr President, Mr Franken, I did not mention a file, which I do not have access to; I simply drew up a portrait. I understand that it bothers you that we bring a little humanity into the debate. But that's the reality. I would also like to tell you that, in my opinion, it has been a long time since you saw a school or kindergarten. Otherwise, you would not come before this committee, after visiting the facilities and seeing them, as I saw them working, telling us that these are good conditions for welcoming children. I miss words. I do not know if it is absurd, indecent, to come and explain to us that the solution to the noise, for those children who are already locked behind a grill, is to give them helmets or Quiès balls, to lock them in silence and cut them off from the few social contacts they might have. A child's place is not in prison. Not today, not in 2011. Mrs Fonck, when reference is made to a report, it must be corrected in full. Indeed, Mr Madrane had tabled a proposal for an amendment reducing the length of confinement to seven days. The text, as you proposed, provided for almost 20 days. We had in any case announced that the Socialist Group would vote against this text, whether amended or not – what it did. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u28	I'm not getting mad. I have the floor. I didn't interrupt you. Mr Franken, for more than a quarter of an hour we have seen a monologue full of certainties. You've occupied space with what you've already told us a hundred times, without answering any questions. Perhaps it's easier for you to try to blame two moms with children than to talk about the real problems, what you've done, that is to say, to free multi-recidivist criminals. You don't worry about that. To the problems of Maximilian Park, no solution. On the other hand, locking up moms with kids, and in addition having the nerve to come here to blame them, you do. Your policy is neither human nor effective. Its only result is to pick up the stinking ideas of the far right. The result is that you will certainly reap the votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u29	Mr. President, let's try to have some serenity. It's difficult, as we approach October 14th. We feel that there are differences, including within the democratic opposition. This debate is interesting. The opposition's orfray screams go one way or the other. In a way, to say it's not right, without actually proposing a solution. In the other, the Vlaams Belang almost gives the impression that only the mirrors are missing and a carpet that leads directly to the airport of Zaventem. It scares me a little. In my view, the government has shown a balance in a very difficult situation. Indeed, the return homes that were installed from 2009 onwards are very useful. Moreover, their success continues to grow. However, some cases – such as that of the Serbian family – bear witness to the need to find another solution. The deadline must be as short as possible. However, as has been said, apart from Ireland, Italy and Romania, all the Member States of the European Union have a similar system, although the planned periods may differ. We are, of course, in a rule of law. This implies that the right to appeal is left to the parties concerned, but also that a decision which has been taken must be enforceable. If the various authorities have ruled that a family cannot remain in Belgium, it must be possible to implement this decision. The two aspects of the problem are therefore addressed by the rule of law. Like Mr Maingain, the majority as a whole will obviously be attentive to what the Council of State will say. We will be extremely respectful of his decision. However, this must not prevent us, in the meantime, from continuing to move forward. That's what I wanted to say at this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u30	In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms. Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for administrative simplification, Deputy to the Minister of Security and Interior, asks the federal government: 1. to review the removal procedures in order to comply with Article 74/9 of the Act of 15 December 1980 laying down the principle of the prohibition of the confinement of children, unless it is indispensable for the execution of a final decision on expulsion, the other means of achieving this have failed, in exceptional situations, as a last resort, and for the shortest possible period of time, less than 72 hours; 2. to provide the necessary means to allow for the optimal functioning of open houses, as well as adequate supervision; 3. to develop other alternatives to detention if families escape from open houses such as the election of a guarantor or the wearing of the parental electronic bracelet. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Catherine Fonck and reads as follows: The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Catherine Fonck and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, responsible for Administrative Simplification, attached to the Minister for Security and Home Affairs, asks 1. revise the removal procedures in order to bring them into line with Article 74/9 of the Law of 15 December 1980, which lays down the principle that children should not be locked up unless it is absolutely necessary to implement a final expulsion decision and the other means of doing so have failed, there are exceptional circumstances, which are ultimately occurring and for as short a duration as possible which is less than 72 hours; 2. to provide the necessary means to ensure the optimum functioning of the open housing, as well as the necessary guidance; 3. develop alternatives to detention for families who escape an open home, such as the appointment of a person who is a guarantor or the obligation for the parent to wear an ankle bracelet. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote and Ms. Sarah Smeyers. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote and Mrs Sarah Smeyers. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u31	The same rules apply here as for the previous debate, but I will monitor speaking time more closely. At that time the two-minute speaking time was exceeded more than once, not to say never applied. The Minister has until 6.30 p.m., so the meeting will end at 6.30 p.m. at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u32	According to newspaper reports, problems appear to always come first in the media... a candidate who applied to the federal police but was rejected because of family ties with Syrian fighters, was recently able to start his police training in Antwerp. You ordered six controversial recruitments to the bone. You also indicated that the assessment frameworks should be defined more strictly in police recruitment processes, so that there is less room for interpretation. Not only do you want to avoid such blunders, you also want to reform the recruitment process. The objective would be to recruit more and more quickly, including by reducing recruitment times and using digital recruitment. In the light of these objectives, it is incomprehensible that the federal government does not grant a significant part of the federal allowance to several police schools, for example for the 2017 operating year. I would like to refer to the notice of default of the police school of West Flanders, which remains unresolved until today. In 2017, that school was granted too little funding. As a result of funding problems at police schools, continuing training for police personnel paid by local areas will increase in the coming years. On the other hand, the number of training courses is likely to be limited to the minimum that must be offered. That is actually the opposite of what we want to achieve, namely well-educated people, including in continuing training. I would also like to remind you that since the attacks of 22 March, you have repeatedly promised to meet staff shortages in the police. You talked about 1 400 recruitments each time. The federal police would also be strengthened, if I am correct, with 1 200 staff and a recruitment of 600 additional inspectors in 2017-2018. As far as I'm concerned, the highest figure in that context is related to 1 100 recruitments. In that case, it remains vague whether it is about completed completions for a year, namely 2016-2017, or about the total number. But newspapers were still reporting a shortage of 3,400 agents. I refer to the recommendations of the 'terrorist attacks' follow-up committee. It states that a working group in the Cabinet is examining the selection, recruitment, training and career management of the police and that a review by KPMG should lead to a new concept, a concept that is currently under discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u33	Mr Top, can you ask your question? If we don't, we're running out of time. The Rules of Procedure prescribe a speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u34	How much time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u35	Two minutes and you're past it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u36	This is a topical debate, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u37	Yeah, but that's also what the rules of the game are for.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u38	I thought it was the same with the previous subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u39	That was indeed the case, and I pointed out that on the next subject I would strictly stick to the two-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u40	Mr President, I would like you to say that before every question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u41	I said it before the topical debate, but you were probably not there at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u42	I mean at the last debate, at 2:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u43	I said it at the start and I repeat it. Please proceed to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u44	Mr Minister, I come to my questions. It is reported that between the candidacy and the time when a candidate receives confirmation that he or she is allowed to go to the police school, there is a year or so. Sometimes the training starts two or three weeks after they have been confirmed that they can go to the police school. Some candidates are employed in the private sector or in another public service. How can you expect enough candidates to register at the police school? You will indeed reform the training. The only question is whether the reform will deliver the desired results. What steps will you take to improve the recruitment process? When will you come to Parliament with the proposal? What timing do you propose for the whole reform? Do you consider re-expanding the recruitment service? What will you do, Mr President, to refer to the default of the previous speaker in order to avoid increasing the prices for training and to limit the number of training courses in the respective police schools? If the problem is not addressed or not tackled properly, how can it be reconciled with the objective of recruiting more and with the idea of providing police officers with good and decent continuing training?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u45	Minister, the De Standaard newspaper reported on the lack of selection and training procedures in the police services. People with a criminal record would have been admitted to the training of police officer in this way. The poor selection procedure is not new. Already in a 2009 review on police reform, the shortcomings in recruitment and selection have been highlighted. However, I would like to quote a little bit from this report ten years ago: 'Selection standards have already been amended and may be further amended, provided that the minimum quality standards required are kept sufficiently high. Quality must continue to prey on quantity. It is also necessary to align the promotional campaigns more realistically, not only on the beautiful aspects of the profession but also on the duties inherent in it." Furthermore, I read: "The lead time of the selection process is too long, so often competent candidates have to drop out and be replaced by other candidates. This must be dealt with urgently." And even more: "During the selection process, one also continues to struggle with an appropriate way to assess the integrity of the candidates. In the morality and background investigation by the local police, which should contribute to the necessary insights into the integrity, it is still not legally required that there has been contact with the candidate and his environment. This should improve the quality of the advice provided and avoid formalistic handling. There is often too little transparency about the moral advice given by the local recruitment. In the event of failure to comply with these opinions, feedback should at least be given to the investigating police department." The recruitment of people who do not have the right competences or, more importantly, that the selection procedures are not intended to test for the new competences is not really new. This is reflected not only in the evaluation study referred to earlier, but also in the evaluation of the training courses in 2011 by the Visitation Committee. Very disturbing in De Standaard's research is the report that things also go wrong in the background investigation. This should make it possible to screen candidates and exclude people with a problematic history from the police services. De Standaard now reports that in some cases candidates with a very problematic past would still be affected by the selection. These would be persons with very serious facts on their hands, such as dealing drugs, or persons associated with Syrian fighters, people whose federal police clearly indicate that they are not fit as police personnel. That is all the more remarkable, in my view, because you have recently strengthened the conditions for accession to the profession of private security agent, Minister. People with criminal offences on their criminal record are now banned from the private security sector. We are also talking about police officers, the people to whom we have entrusted the monopoly on violence. Integrity must therefore be the highest good for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u46	Mr. Demon, can you answer your questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u47	It is therefore incomprehensible to us that the screening of police personnel should be handled in this way and that it is possible for dubious persons to have access to the profession. In the meantime, you announced an investigation into the facts. Do you have any results from that investigation? Does the investigation confirm the facts reported by De Standaard and what concrete measures are you taking to remedy such problems? You said that the long duration of the selection procedure is mainly a problem. Part of that is true: the procedure must indeed be shortened. What measures do you want to take and to what extent can you provide a solution for errors that have occurred in the background investigation? What further reforms do you propose that the selection process should be more focused on the right and necessary competences for the tasks of the police officer? I need 30 seconds before I ask my last two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u48	But you've been at four minutes, Mr. Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u49	Of course, it's not just training. If there are problems with recruitment, they should also be called into question. How can we deal with recruited police officers, which show that recruitment is problematic? In this case, disciplinary law is the main focus of attention. CD&V has been a party to the reform of disciplinary law for years. That too was a pain in the report delivered by the Federal Police Council ten years ago. You have announced a draft amendment to disciplinary law, but it gives up the disciplinary sanctions to suspend someone. That seems to me to be a very strange proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u50	Mr. Demon, you're at five minutes. Can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u51	Why are you removing the disciplinary measure to suspend someone? How, then, can a temporary measure be taken in the interests of the service?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u52	Two minutes' speaking time has become one of five. I will have to cut back on your reply later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u53	Recruitment times are organised annually, both for operational staff and civilian staff. We note that the vacancies in the police zones and the federal services are difficult to fill. This is due to the long running time and the stepped-up system of the procedure. The procedure has been in place since the beginning of the police reform and consists of four phases: the cognitive test, the personality test, the physical test and the selection interview. All together, that lasts six months. One must have completed the previous test each time before one can participate in the following. There is also an background study of which the morality research is part, but one can also ask questions. Are there no internal problems there, given what we have heard over the past few weeks? Besides, aren't there any problems with deontology among the recruiters? If they claim that there was pressure to recruit massively, that is not true. They are bound by the law. If unjust things are asked, they must refuse, otherwise they will go against deontology. If one fears reprisals, it only advocates the legislative proposal I am defending, namely the extension of the whistleblower's statute. So we need solutions. I refer to the pilot project of the local police in Antwerp, which has already produced results. After the recruitment procedure there is another training of the aspirants at the various police schools, with a duration of about one year. Several police schools have already taken steps to align their operation more closely, which would be more efficient. Mr Minister, can you give me an overview of the number of recruitments both by framework, i.e. operationals, and by level, i.e. Calog, as a result of recruitments over the last three years? How many of these were effectively recruited? Do you see a decrease or increase in the number of candidates? Are you working on optimising the recruitment procedure to get any deficits filled in more quickly? What is the capacity per police school to train recruits? Have steps been taken to coordinate the functioning of the different schools in order to provide the same quality training? Were there any efficiency improvements here and if so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u54	Mr Minister, the press over the past few weeks has highlighted very worrying facts regarding the procedures for recruiting police officers at the level of the Antwerp police zone. Indeed, several candidates rightly dismissed by the Federal Police on the basis of their background would have been included in the training provided by the Antwerp Police Academy as part of the local recruitment process. I say that these are very worrying facts because the background in question is far from anodizing: family proximity to fighters in Syria, driving under the influence of narcotics, vandalism. This is not exactly the exemplary behaviour that every citizen is entitled to expect from law enforcement. At this stage, I understand that an inquiry has been requested from the Commissioner-General to clarify the matter. I would ask you, in any event, to forward to Parliament the results of this investigation as soon as they become known to you. Minister, could it be that such essential information about the candidates was not in the hands of recruiters in the local area? If so, why? The promotion of the benefits of recruitment by local areas has already been heard. This is one of the pitfalls. What are the internal measures that accompany these projects? Are central recruiters in charge of the procedures? In concrete terms, how do we ensure that filters applied successfully at the federal level do not apply at the local level? What are the respective levels of responsibility of central services and local hierarchy in these recruitment procedures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u55	Minister, this is not a new issue and it dates from before your arrival. New and shocking, however, are the cases of convicts, really dangerous individuals, who would be admitted to our police services. We're fixing a split somewhere. On the one hand, you say that no compromise can be reached on the integrity of the candidates. On the other hand, we see examples of dangerous individuals, convicted persons, persons with criminal records, who have slipped through the loopholes and are admitted. In addition to the wrong history of some of our police officers, there is nothing to say. There would also be something to suspend the motivation of certain recruits. We read several allegations, including that the bar would be lowered, almost down to the ground, under political pressure; negative advice would not be followed; scores would be adjusted; the recruits would have insufficient cognitive capacity or they would be anxious. We also read that it is no longer about quality but about quantity. Unfortunately, therefore, we have to conclude that the police are not always able to attract the right people. Is the solution a reform of the selection procedure? We know that this is being done. We read that the reformed selection procedure should make it possible to recruit four times faster, that a higher success rate should be possible, that there should be more objectivity and diversity. This would be the subject of consultation with the trade unions. The deadline is April 2019. A major problem would also be the highly slimming recruitment service. Mr Minister, Open Vld has a number of questions about this. Firstly, what is true of the many allegations we could read? What's wrong? What's wrong? Is there anything else? Are you conducting an investigation? Can you give a clear answer to this? Secondly, how come the success rate in the police has doubled in three years? The figures show a doubling of 7 % to 14 % between 2014 and 2017. How do you explain that? We also have a follow-up question on the reform of the HRM department in the police. What were the conclusions of the KPMG study on the optimisation of the current recruitment and selection processes? Can this study be made available to the committee? For what reasons was it decided not to outsource the HRM department? What does the recruitment process leave to be desired according to the study? Where can we send it? What additional initiatives can be implemented and what support is there already for the police areas themselves recruiting and recruiting themselves? Finally, will the reform of selection and recruitment be completed during this governance period?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u56	Mr President, I was already asking Minister De Padt about this subject in 2009! Minister, you have recently denied the existence of pressure to achieve police recruitment objectives and you have also asked the federal police to investigate possible cases of candidates who have been found unfit but have been admitted to police training. At the end of the investigation, it was found that all the candidates admitted to the training were considered suitable by the deliberation committee, which was the only one competent to take this decision. Mr Minister, I have no doubt that you are making sure that the police officers are of the best quality, that is indeed indispensable. However, it appears that the recruitment of police officers poses a number of difficulties. Overall, how do you analyse these difficulties encountered in recruitment, particularly with regard to the high failure rate in the selection tests? What are the most difficult tests for police candidates? What concrete steps could be taken with regard to the waiting period between tests and between tests and results? Are there any reflections already in place to optimize the recruitment process, particularly in terms of speed?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your pertinent questions. I will try to follow a certain logic in responding to the various aspects of the problem. I will first answer the questions related to the six cases that have appeared in De Standaard. Then I will go into the proposal of the renewed selection concept that KPMG has worked out and which has been discussed here several times. Colleagues asked if they could look into that study. I proposed to the chairman that KPMG should come and explain the study in this committee, both the analysis and the proposals for improvement, and come forward with the current state of affairs. After all, this dossier has been going on for some time. I will also consider the role and possibilities of local police forces in this renewed selection concept. You know there was a pilot project going on. The proposal of the local police forces is still the subject of internal consultation between local and federal police and later consultation with trade unions. I'll come back to that later. Questions were asked about the outsourcing of the HRM and about the optimisation or outsourcing of the recruitment and selection process. A set of figures was also requested. I will conclude with the training questions. In the end, I will answer the questions about training. Mr Top and Mr Demon asked questions about disciplinary law. Mr Demon, this has not yet been decided. The file is now before the trade unions for consultation. I suggest we give the consultation a chance. The dossier has already been discussed at government level and it is on the agenda of the next consultation with the trade unions. I would suggest that after that, when we have found a comparison with the trade unions, I should like to explain something here. There were also questions about the cases from De Standaard. This is the first question from Mr Top, the fifth question from Mr Demon, the first and second questions from Mr Frédéric, a question from Mr Vanden Burre, who is no longer present, questions from Mr Flahaux and the first and third questions from Mrs Lahaye-Battheu. When the articles appeared in De Standaard, the federal police immediately tried to identify the six cases based on the available information, which we found in De Standaard's article. It is true that these six candidates have gone through the entire selection procedure and have been successful. They have therefore come to the end of the selection procedure, they have succeeded and they have been allowed to follow the training. Fortunately, reality is more nuanced than suggested in the article in De Standaard. The decision on morality or impeccable behavior is not a frivolous decision. That is not just something that is decided in five minutes' time. That decision was made on the basis of different elements introduced by different partners in the selection process. It is ultimately the deliberation committee, where all these elements come together, that makes a decision. The Deliberation Committee is composed of members of the federal and local police. On what basis does this committee base its judgment? First of all, on the extract from the criminal record and on the information provided by the candidate himself during the selection procedure, in writing, but also during the interview with the personality test and during the interview with the selection committee. The selection committee is part of that process. It is ultimately the deliberation committee that takes the final decision. That's a first element. The second element is the evaluation carried out by the assessors and the members of the selection committee with regard to the specific competence of the standard. That's what this is about. This evaluation is, of course, taken into account. The results of the research carried out by the Screening cell of the Internal Operation Service and the results of the morality study carried out by the candidate's residence corps are also taken into account in the evaluation. It is the deliberation committee that has all the elements. Each inter-committee, such as the selection committee, has only a part of the information. The final decision shall therefore take into account the nature and gravity of the facts, the repeated nature of the facts, possibly mitigating circumstances, the age of the candidate at the time of the facts, the evolution of the candidate since then and the sense of guilt and responsibility of the candidate. All this information ultimately leads to the final decision. If there is any doubt and a positive decision follows, then that is not a safe passage for the candidate. It then explicitly points out the opportunity offered to him and once again makes him aware of the importance of the role of example. Both the department of residence, the director of the school where the basic training is given and the department of internal supervision of the federal police shall be informed in writing of the information available to the department of recruitment and selection, requesting that the persons concerned be followed during the year of their training. During their training, which lasts one year, they are followed daily as a speech. This will enable us to assess whether the evolution is positive or whether problems are still occurring. Sometimes candidates are thanked and sent home during their education. Allow me to present the following. Our model is that everyone deserves a second chance, isn't it? In some cases, it's all about missteps during childhood. "He who is without sin casts the first stone" can be an appropriate Bible quote here. However, in the case of flashing lights, when it appears that the man or woman concerned has misguided something, the investigation must of course be conducted in more depth than with a candidate without such indications. After-care after selection and during training must also be more in-depth, the person concerned must be followed up. De Standaard cited the example of a candidate whose brother was a jihadi. For the record, that jihadi was in category 5 of the OCAD list, which means there are signs of radicalisation in him. Does this mean that the candidate should be excluded from the police force in all circumstances? If that candidate is just and on the right track, he can just provide special information on the environment in which his brother is living. The fact that his brother made a mistake doesn't mean that the candidate should be refused, does it? However, there must be flashing lights and an in-depth investigation must be carried out. The audit bodies must ensure that the candidate concerned is on the right track and not under the influence of, for example, a brother. It is quite weedy that this is followed up during the training and in the first years of the career. The selection procedure also does not end when the training starts. During initial training, the applicant must demonstrate that he can perform an exemplary function and also respect the deontological code. The training is ideal for this, because the candidates are followed daily. In doing so, it can be considered whether mistakes have been made during the selection procedure. I would like to support the fact that people deserve a second chance. If there are indications, the selection committee must, of course, light the flashing lights. We can't let that go lightly. Mr President, my text also provides answers to Mr Vanden Burre's questions. I will still give them, since in the context of a mini-debate, it is important for the global issue. No violation of the legal provisions was committed by the commission. Throughout the selection process, information on the candidates is collected from various sources or via different channels: extract from the criminal record, database of previous selections, interview with the candidate, statement of the candidate or in-depth investigation of the morality conducted by the local police area of the candidate's place of residence. The latter form is an important link in the selection chain, as it lists not only facts but also the context of them. This concerns both the candidate and his family, his friends and his environment. The final decision resulting from this moral inquiry shall take into account all available information, the nature of the facts and their context. Context, date of events, lessons learned, etc. The opinion formulated and motivated by the local partner weigh heavily. As part of the new concept of selection, for the future, and in order to best objectiveise the opinion given in this investigation, an adjustment is planned. Indeed, the parameters which could exclude the candidate from participation in the selection procedure have been determined. A complementary decision-making framework should be added, which will enable the proposed progress to be verified. Finally, awareness-raising and quality control must be carried out for moral investigations conducted by the local police. It is essential that the local partner formulate its opinions on the basis of clear parameters. I'll come back to it later. You asked me to look into the analysis report. I don't know if that's possible. I will check this out, because it concerns six specific cases. I don't know if I can make that available. You know I give full disclosure in cases where it's allowed. If I may make that study available to Parliament, perhaps with anonymisation, I will do so. Give me time to check that out, because it's six personal cases. If it's consistent with deontology, I'd be happy to do so. I explained the new selection concept in the weeks before the summer recess. It is not news that in terms of efficiency, speed, lead time and alignment of the different phases in the recruitment process there is a lack of clarity. As a result, I have requested a review of the recruitment service from KPMG. The report, which I have received in the meantime, states that there is scope for improvement in three main areas: the identification of needs, recruitment and selection. The optimisation process described in that KPMG study is currently under way. An important point here is that a number of issues arise in the concrete recruitment and selection procedures. I am talking, among other things, about a long lead time, low success rates and limited diversity. A number of bottlenecks also relate to a wider context: staff strategy, career monitoring, the tight regulatory context, the long hierarchical chain of approval and controls. The reform of the selection process has four main objectives: attracting better-quality candidates, a short lead time, more diversity and higher success rates without affecting standards. Sometimes it is insinuated that the standards are being pulled down. I firmly deny that. We want to raise the success rate and diversity by guiding the candidates. These objectives are currently being pursued in four areas: recruitment, selection, identification of needs and an integrated human resource policy. As regards the selection process itself, the various existing tests are evaluated and, where necessary, adapted. Thus, certain parts will disappear and a greater focus will be placed on the computerisation of testing, because it is more objective and results will be processed more quickly. Other test components will be filled in differently. I am talking, for example, about the language test, which does not focus on school knowledge, such as spelling rules, but on expressing and expressing itself, with, of course, the correct application of language and spelling rules. Let me give you a concrete example. In a selection interview, a candidate is asked to explain the structure of the integrated police, as if a correct response to it or not would give an indication of whether someone would be fit to become a policeman or a woman later on. That will be explained later in the training year, won't it? Such tests should be assessed on their potential. For me, someone who starts training doesn't need to know in detail what the integrated police are. He must be sufficiently intelligent, be of unspoken behavior and have sufficient common sense. So the tests are being adjusted. The reform also pays more attention to the so-called morality research. A list of convictions for certain facts leading automatically to the termination of the selection procedure will be worked out. Today there is no such list and nothing is standardized. Criteria are also being developed to provide more guidance in assessing the morality of a candidate. This is being worked out by a working group. Then we'll get the recruitment. From recruitment to recruitment, greater responsibility is placed on local police areas or federal executives. We're evolving into a one-to-one recruitment. If a police zone needs five people, it can say that five specific people from the training are coming to the zone if they succeed. This applies to the local areas, but also to the federal police executives. They will be able to play an active role in the recruitment of potential candidates and will be able to recruit candidates before the start of initial training. To this end, the selection committee will no longer be organised by the recruitment and selection department of the federal police, but by the recruitment zone or management. In this way it is foreseen that corps can recruit locally in a structured manner. I'm talking about that right now. Implementation of the improvement path follows a tight timetable. The new draft and the corresponding statutory texts are scheduled for the meeting of the negotiating committee at the end of September. Together with the police, I aim to have completed the full optimisation process by April 2019. In the meantime, however, it is already being examined which interim changes can be made to the current rules. In addition to these measures which must be placed on the agenda of the trade union negotiations and in the legal texts, we are already working to reduce the deadlines and the most important bottlenecks. For example, in August and September, fast tracks were organized, during which candidates could choose to pass the selection process within a week. We have therefore combined all these tests, in the old, unreformed system, in one week, so that those candidates can take one week's vacation to complete all the tests. In addition, corps wishing to carry out the selection themselves will be taken into account, as has been done so far with a pilot project in the police area of Antwerp. That system will be generalized and open to all corpses. This is currently the subject of an internal consultation within the police, federal police and local police, and then comes to the trade unions. I spoke about this yesterday in the coordination committee. I will see federal police and local police delegations tomorrow to finalise this, so that this can be discussed next week at the syndical meeting. I shall now turn to more specific questions. Mr Demon, I shall begin with your second question. The long lead time is indeed the greatest pain in the current selection procedure. It is therefore important to identify and solve bottlenecks, such as medical fitness and morality research. The new selection concept, as it is currently being prepared, seeks to meet this through various initiatives, by making greater use of computerized tests, and thus automated scores, by deleting certain tests, by bringing forward certain selection steps and by making more initiative with the candidates, for example through a digital registration on testing, allowing them to determine the agenda themselves. In relation to that last point, the police will return the link to the part morality. By carrying out the screening immediately at the time of registration, it will, on the basis of a list of exclusive parameters, be able to refuse candidates more quickly for further participation in the selection process and thus use the selection capacity more efficiently for candidates who do meet the values and standards of the police organisation. Depending on certain needs, the ability to carry out an accelerated selection phase was developed, I have just given the example, it takes place in one week time for an incorporation period. This was tested twice during the month of August. Two sessions of the fast track are scheduled in September and October. That too will be evaluated. Mr Demon, as far as your third question is concerned, in the current selection process, the focus is mainly on assessing competence, i.e. the competence model. In the proposed new concept, the police will pay more attention to the personality as well as to the values, such as motivation, integrity, absence of extremism and psychopathology. The personality test will now allow the emphasis to be placed on the values and standards of a candidate, who must be tested against the values and standards of the organisation in the jargon, which is called cultural fit.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Candidates who do not have those essential characteristics to perform the function should therefore not continue the selection process. Several automated tests will support the evaluation of those values, which were previously examined only during interviews. Mrs Lahaye-Battheu, you had a question about the core tasks plan and the outsourcing of the human resource process. As regards the core tasks plan and the study on the outsourcing of the human resource process, I can tell you that I must first have access to the report. So no decision has yet been taken on this. Within fourteen days, I will be given an explanation. In the light of the survey, the study on whether or not to subcontract the recruitment and selection process has not yet been fully completed. Given that some of the issues raised are more of a strategic nature, outsourcing is certainly not the only or most obvious solution. The strategy, approach and policy on recruitment and selection, and on enlargement other HR domains, must first be developed internally. Only then can the question of outsourcing be asked again. With regard specifically to recruitment and selection, I do not think we should outsource it. I do believe that we can outsource the peak tax. That's what I'm talking about. For a particular recruitment, the internal service can be enabled. If for some reason one has to select a lot more people, it would be interesting to bring in people from the private sector to absorb that peak, but we should not outsource the base. Mr Frédéric, as part of his own recruitment, the Antwerp police area has the same information as the federal police for the conventional selection chain. The contents of the selection file and the working method are identical. This is indeed one of the sine qua nons of the recruitment procedure within the Antwerp police zone. A digital file is generated for each candidate so that local and federal partners can access the same information. At present, the local partner enjoys considerable autonomy in his or her work. He independently carried out the selection tests as well as the morality investigation and asked for the screening of the candidates. Since the local partner independently executes the entire selection process (with the exception of the group test), it has all the information collected during this process. With regard to the role of the local police in the new selection concept, all employees of the local partner who will be involved in the selection process (administrative staff, assessors, members of the commission) are trained in advance and supervised by the collaborators of the federal partner (use of databases, use of selection tests, interpretation of results and behaviour-based maintenance). They sit on the selection board. In order to continue to ensure the quality and similarity of recruitment processes, regular feedback/intervision days should be organised to ensure that both partners always have the same vision and continue to use the same method of work. If we wish to extend this process of local recruitment to other police areas, it seems to me that we need to train local candidates, but also to register those who have participated in the training and succeeded, before they can play their role at the local level. That's what we did with the assessors in Antwerp. It seems to me that we have to do the same with the other areas too. There are some differences between the federal and local levels. That seems normal to me. While the federal partner relies solely on the results of the different tests by applying the generic selection standard, the local partner also establishes a personalized link with the candidate from the recruitment phase. For example, it organizes preparatory trips during which candidates are coached and prepared for the selection procedure. In addition, the candidate will not be judged exclusively on the basis of the generic standard, but also on the adequacy of his or her organizational and cultural profile. For example, it is checked to what extent it corresponds to the expectations of recruiters, to what extent it is in line with the values that prevail within the body, to what extent it can represent an added value to the body. It is obvious that the good experiences of the Antwerp project are taken into account in the new concept. With regard to the levels of responsibility, the project currently being developed in collaboration with the Antwerp police zone provides that the two officials responsible for selection within the Antwerp and federal police forces – in this case, the Recruitment and Selection department – consult each other on a regular basis on the day-to-day operation. The management of the area and the heads of the department referred to above shall be the final persons responsible for the selection procedures. The new selection concepts currently being developed also provide for the incorporation of several complementary measures. Thus, a Quality Unit will be attached to the Federal Police Personnel Directorate. The unit will be composed of representatives of the integrated police and representatives of representative trade unions, who will jointly monitor compliance with the statutory rules, ministerial decisions and protocols concluded between the Minister of the Interior and the recruitment bodies. It will also be responsible, on the one hand, for ensuring the fulfilment of the obligations assigned to the Federal Police Recruitment and Selection Service and, on the other hand, for ensuring compliance with the procedure by the local police forces. I repeat that the new selection concept takes into account corps wishing to carry out the selection themselves, as has been done so far in a pilot project of the Antwerp police area. That system will be generalised and open to all corpses. The corps have already been informed of this. There have also been information sessions. In this respect, it is of course important to stress that the recruitment corps can count on the cooperation and expertise of the recruitment and selection department of the federal police at any time. In addition, the ministerial decision allows for several scenarios in which the federal partner remains involved to a lesser or more extent. In practice, the following three scenarios will be the most common: scenario full, scenario base and scenario light. The full scenario means that the recruiting corps, i.e. the local police area, is almost fully engaged as part of the recruitment and selection process. It has a minimum level of support from the federal partner and therefore also bears the bulk of the costs in the budget. In scenario base, the recruitment corps and the recruitment and selection service of the federal police in the context of the recruitment and selection procedure are in an equivalent manner. In scenario light, the recruitment and selection department of the federal police in the selection and recruitment process is almost fully engaged, as is the case now. All employees in the corps who will be involved in their own recruitment will also be trained and coached by the Federal Recruitment and Selection Service or its partners. Finally, a catalogue of services is being developed, which includes a range of support, training and materials. Each zone or federal service may make use of that offer, whether or not within the framework of its own recruitment. In 2018, the recruitment service was allowed to recruit additional staff, primarily to cover the additional workload associated with the selection of the police security officers, the DAB. The police will evaluate the impact of the new selection concept on the workload of the employees. She can then decide whether there is a need for further additional input. More in detail, I can tell you that in 2016 14 people worked at the service. In 2017, that was 18 people. In 2018, 32 people worked at the service. I'll give you the table. The various functions are also included. Mr Degroote asked for figures on recruitment and selection. A distinction must be made in this regard. First there are the candidates who have applied in response to the recruitment campaign. It selects people who are entitled to start training. Then there are the people who are actually starting the training. Then there is another differentiation in the sense that not everyone finishes the training and gets a license. I will give you a table of the candidates for the recruitment, external and internal, of the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 for all frameworks. The external number of candidates in 2015 was 17 330, in 2016 19 568 and in 2017 21 452. For the internal candidates, with competitions, it was 1 653, in 2016 2 191 and in 2017 1 184 candidates. Mr Degroote also asked about the numbers of successful candidates in the selection procedure. The same can be said for external recruitment and internal recruitment. The candidates who passed the external selection process were 1,265 in 2015, 2,291 in 2016 and 1,992 in 2017. Internally, they were 141 in 2015, 287 in 2016 and 579 in 2017. I have the details here for every grade. I'll supply it. Mr Flahaux, on the basis of the figures, we can see that the overall success rate for the basic framework is 14.1% in 2016 and 14.5% in 2017. I'm talking about police inspectors here, but I'm also giving you the numbers for the other ranks. We can see a slight improvement over previous years. This rate was 13 per cent in 2013 and 10.2 per cent in 2014. There is an increase, but it would be exaggerated to say that we have dramatically lowered the standards. I say it with great force: this is not the case. In 2017, the main events with a significant failure rate were, on the one hand, the video language test, with 31.3% chess, and, on the other hand, the passage before the commission, with 47.2% chess. Mr Degroote, the deficits can be calculated in different ways, but I will give you a table with an estimate of the number of staff to be recruited and the number that has been effectively recruited. In 2015 we wanted to recruit 800 people and 768 were effectively recruited, in 2016 we wanted to recruit 1 600 and we effectively recruited 1 416, in 2017 we wanted to recruit 1 400 and we effectively recruited 1 073 but also increased 245 employees through social promotion to the basic framework. So we are not achieving the objective, but we are approaching it. Mr Top, you had a question about police training. Police training is indeed partly financed through the budget of the integrated police. This funding is provided for in the Royal Decree of 28 February 2002. Article 2 of that regulation provides that financial intervention shall be granted within the limits of the appropriations available entered in the budget of the integrated police. We are certainly looking for solutions so that the budget envelope allocated can cover all the training courses of the recognized police schools in accordance with the conditions laid down in that Royal Decree. Particular attention should be paid to these conditions of granting, which will certainly be reviewed in the framework of the organisational part of the police education project in safety education. In doing so, it is necessary to ensure that they are always in line with the established and future developments. As far as your sixth question is concerned, Mr De Groote, on top of the ratio in the allocation of prospective inspectors to the various recognised police schools laid down in the Royal Decree of 28 February 2002, the police schools are asked what their capacity is to train aspirants in the basic framework. The reception capacity of police schools evolves from year to year. The figures change depending on the activities planned in each school. The figures above were communicated by the schools for the year 2018. This corresponds to a total reception capacity of 1 509 prospective inspectors. I'll give you an overview of the distribution by school on paper. As far as your seventh question is concerned, the aim of the police education project in the field of safety education is to professionalise police education. Several working groups consisting of members of police schools, local corps, federal police, the Permanent Commission of Local Police and so on have examined various themes, such as the profile of the police inspector in the first instance, his training and the recognition of his training within regular education. The weighting committee of the Department of Education of the Flemish Community has scaled the degree of inspector in level 5 of regular education. So that means: humaniora plus 1 year. This could be the zero measurement, and then we can scale agent and superintendent against it and so on. In parallel with this project, the federal police have activated a harmonisation policy of manuals and the strengthening of cooperation between police schools. Harmonisation policy is implemented through the technical committees dealing with different police matters and bringing together members of all police schools. The quality of the training will be enhanced by the implementation of a quality platform, in cooperation with the police schools, which will start at the end of 2018. This platform is part of the quality assurance set out in the Royal Decree of 6 April 2008 on quality standards and framework standards. This will be particularly useful for the division of tasks between the future domes and the federal level. I have to add that security training is usually given to firefighters and police together. Especially for firefighters, it does not make much sense for ten schools to build a hospital so that they can learn how to put out a hospital in ten places. Basic training must, of course, be available everywhere, in all police schools. There's no discussion about that. I asked the schools to consider whether they could coordinate their specializations. One school does this, and the other one does that. This project started with a great deal of goodwill, but it did not produce immediate results. As the proverb says, the shirt is closer than the skirt. Now we have concluded an agreement with the schools, both on the French-speaking side and on the Dutch-speaking side. They will associate themselves. In the future, the federal donation will also be given to the associations. They therefore have every interest in allocating resources. I am not saying that any specialisation can only be given in one place, but they can check how the distribution is managed more efficiently. There's an agreement on that. So that's in effect. At the same time, we are cutting back on police education in the Bologna Declaration. This means that the quality standards will be followed by the Department of Education. For example, we are sure that all schools will achieve the same level of quality. So far, Mr President, my comprehensive answers to the extensive questions. I believe I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u58	You have answered many questions, and specifically the situation of the six dossiers and general training. I will highlight three main points, without going into detail. The most important point for us is the integrity of the policemen. Given the exemplary role for society, it is important that the integrity of policemen is not under discussion. You replied that further attention will be given to this in the amended selection procedures. I won't use a biblical pronunciation like you, but I'll stick with the one rotten apple in the basket. By this I mean that we must avoid getting bad people into our services, which puts all policemen and police officers in a bad light. You announced that the results of the KPMG study will be explained and deepened here. The selection procedure, and you have already referred to it, must indeed be made more efficient and shorter. The motivation disappears when candidates have to wait a year for permission to start the training. That does not mean, however, that the quality must be reduced, quite the contrary. You are talking about the computerization of certain selection procedures. Don't go too far in there. Looks like we're looking for a unit profile right now. Sometimes we miss the specialties. We should try to select people with a special profile, for example on IT, when recruiting. That will not work with a computerized process. Therefore, during the selection process, pay attention to the right and specialized profiles. You made against my expectations in a comparison with Flemish level 5, which amounts to upper secondary plus one year. I call for the Bologna principles to be used. In this way, competences can be equated, rather than repeated. In addition, competences from the police school can then be used for other purposes. Why not? It can only strengthen people who have followed the training. It may also be an additional offer to register in the police schools. Finally, I hope that the things that have been proposed have also been carried out. If I am right, at the end of last summer, in 2017, you decided to start training immediately in the light of the shortage of inspectors with a Bachelor's degree. If I understand correctly, that is not the case today. I would urge that this be done. Everything that is now on the move, so the reform of the selection procedure and the intention to increase quality, must now be implemented. Not only must promises be made; they must also be kept.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your firm answer. Firstly, it is a good thing that you want to achieve faster procedures. We can only welcome that. I would ask you to continue to monitor the quality of the procedure and the results, but that will undoubtedly be your intention. Secondly, the principle that everyone should have a second chance is, of course, beautiful. But we have strengthened the conditions for recruitment to private security services. This is about policemen who are allowed to use force. Integrity is therefore very important. So everyone has a second chance, but we cannot just open the door, as police people can use violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u60	Mr Demon, a lot of candidates have flashed during the selection and they have not even reached the selection procedure. With the candidates recently reported, the flashing lights have burned, but the selection committee, taken all together, had confidence that those concerned were on the right track. However, a much larger number of candidates are not even affected by the selection procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u61	I understand. However, I would like to point out that we have strengthened the rules on private services, where integrity is an important point. So we have to pay attention to offering a second chance. A third point I would like to raise still needs to be discussed with the trade unions, but I think you really need to consider whether you really want to remove the suspension as a possible sanction. You didn't go into that further. My view of that is next. If a person makes a mistake and cannot be suspended because the suspension has been removed as a sanction, then all that remains is the cessation of cooperation, or the transfer of the person concerned to another post. However, suspension may also be an important method, since the person concerned will then be denied access pending the outcome of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive and full reply. You have quoted some interesting figures, which I shall look at more closely, but at first sight the trend is positive in terms of achieving the objectives. I think that's very important. We await with interest the report to see if we can obtain some good elements for its further operation. I also think it is very important that the four stages in the recruitment procedure I mentioned, namely the cognitive test, the personality test, the physical fitness test and the interview with the selection committee, can be brought together again so that a lot of time is wasted. Furthermore, I have confidence in your approach to this rather difficult matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u63	I would like to be positive, Minister, first of all, and thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. The recruitment procedures, as you are considering them, contain interesting things on which we will be able to think together to work even better. Of course, I was somewhat questioned, because you do not have the habit of practicing "biblical angelism". That the CD&V refers to it does not pose any difficulty to me, but in your leadership, it was more surprising to me as you said that "everyone is entitled to a second chance." I agree with that principle. But here, it's not about hiring a mechanic or a carpenter. This is police recruitment! And I'm surprised – now I can understand, as far as the local area of Antwerp is concerned, that we don't need to "search" too much, maybe – that these six candidates in the past... Well, they didn't steal an apple at the shop, did they? According to the gazette, anyway! I don't know, but the facts are not trivial. The federal police refused them! And you tell us, "Yes, the local police have the same information as the federal police." All right, but then two things one: either she didn't have this information, and there's a kuac at the communication level or she had it and considered that it wasn't decisive for the recruitment and profile of the people we were going to hire. And I did not find in your head (even though I stressed from the outset the completeness of your answer), in any case to this question, to this situation, a satisfactory answer. I shall therefore be waiting to receive the report which has been requested, like other colleagues, but I am now thinking and perhaps taking the initiative, in my capacity as a member of the Committee P and the R Committee, to refer it to these bodies in order to shed light on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u64	I would like to add, Mr Frédéric, that of the six cases dealt with in De Standaard, three concerned the Antwerp police zone, two the DAB (the new police force) and one the federal police. Here are some details! This also means three cases at the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u65	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the following is not quite clear to me. In order to take part in the selection tests, an extract from the criminal record must be submitted, which must not be older than three months. Is it true that this extract has to be submitted, but if it is not blank it can be judged on a case-by-case basis whether one can take part in the examinations?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u66	It depends on the violation. I could give examples, but it depends on the nature of the offence. The question is always whether that person can become a good cop or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u67	You say that a list will be drawn up of convictions giving rise to the closure of the door, which will not qualify anyone. That list will probably contain things that can't be done. I have an additional question. We have taken note of these six cases and you have explained them. Is there gonna be another checkup? Are you sure that there could only be a problem in those six cases or can there be more cases and tell you to look at this further? Is there gonna be another sweep of other recruits? One final question concerns the one-year waiting period. If one does not get through the selection tests, one cannot participate again within the year and so one has to wait a year. Where does that one-year term come from? Is that a general rule? I was told that due to these waiting times some truly committed and motivated people have been disillusioned, meanwhile seeking and finding other jobs and are often lost to the police. Can the deadline be changed or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u68	If the term of one year is to do with morality, then we must keep it. If, for example, it has to do with the network failing to pass a sport test, there is no point in that period. We must act with common sense. If the result of a morality study is negative, it will probably not be different next year, but if it is related to sports trials or knowledge, it can be worked on. I think we should be a little more flexible there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u69	Mr. President, I'm a little surprised. Previously, concern was expressed that we were not sufficiently interested in humans. This is about 16,000 police officers plus the candidates. We're talking about humans, but those who were worried just now are no longer present in committee. Maybe it's because the cameras are gone. I beg your pardon for that remark. I do not, of course, aim at Mr Frédéric, who is obviously present. We're on our way, but the stage is long. Let us recall this well-founded criticism: at the time, in the north of the country, to be hired as a police officer, it was enough to know the mayor. A long time ago, but it existed. Today, both recruitment and training are standardized, but the problem of success rates is a problem. It was already nine years ago when I was questioning the minister of the interior at the time. On the other hand, Minister, what worries me very much is the study that was published today. It shows that by 2021 there will be more vacancies in Belgium than there will be candidates. This may have an impact on the police. It is well known that, in general, civil servants are not the best paid. In times of crisis, however, the private sector, in times of increasing employment, often offers more attractive wages. It must be taken into account now to avoid being in whom in 2021. This seems to me to be a relatively important element. Minister, you have not fully answered one of my questions. You talked about the percentage externally, around 14%, but you didn't mention the percentage internally.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u70	The external and internal candidates and those who passed the selection process, both together. In-house, it's a little bit...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u71	And then I hope that the percentage is much more important?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u72	He's much higher!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u74	With regard to your first point, Mr Flahaux, let us take the example of the Directorate of Security (DAB), the new body of protection: we see a great difference between the number of candidates in Flanders and Wallonia. In Flanders, with an unemployment rate of 4%...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u75	Even for the army...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u76	The situation is the same for the army... Today, this difficulty exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u77	Mr Minister, every year I am interpreting you on the basis of the language report of the Vice-Governor of the Brussels-Capital administrative district. I submitted my interview a few months ago, when his report on the year 2017 was just out. Once again, we have to see that both the Brussels municipalities and the OMCWs continue to trample on the language law massively and that records are being broken again. In the Brussels municipalities, no less than 72.2% of the appointments, appointments and promotions were illegal in 2017, from the point of view of the language law administrative matters. In one year there is a decline of no less than 5 percentage points, because in 2016 we were 67.2 %. A similar significant decline is noted with the OMCWs. In 2016, 89 percent of the appointments were illegal. In 2017, there is an increase to 94 %. Even with these high figures, there is an increase of five percentage points. One might wonder if it could be worse. If this continues, we will evolve for the OCMWs next year in the direction of 100 %. Then we really are at the bottom. The number of illegal appointments in the municipalities increased from 60.9 % in 2014, in the past legislature to 72.2 %. In four years there is therefore a decline of 11.3 percentage points. For the OMCWs, the decline under this government is eight percentage points, from 86 to 94 %. The Brussels local authorities laugh at that. They are laughing at the Flemings, for it is no coincidence that the last year under this government has taken such a drastic fall. Even in recent years, we haven't seen anything like this. I wonder what else needs to be done before action is finally taken. It's not new, it's been totally crooked for years, but now it's moving even faster and more fragilely in the wrong direction. In this context, I would just like to recapitulate that the language law on administrative matters is an existing law which falls within the scope of the Community's standstill. That law was approved by Parliament in a democratic manner. It's a law of public order. That means there can be no deviation from it. The Council of State has repeatedly stated that such illegal appointments cannot be made and that the power of destruction is not an optional one but a mandatory one. Nevertheless, this law is being violated massively as if we are not living in a rule of law but in a banana republic of the worst kind. That is, on the one hand, because the power of custody lies with a government of patented insiders. That is, however, also because the government responsible for the language law in Brussels, which is the federal government and therefore you, Minister, do not have the power to supervise them, rather than to withdraw them from the civilized Brussels people and to entrust them to a body which does the job it should do in a democratic rule of law. When I interviewed you in the past on the issue, your answer was for a very long time that you could not help it and that it was the power of the Brussels Government. I've always fought that answer. In the meantime, there is an opinion from the Standing Committee on Linguistic Monitoring, as well as an opinion from the Legislative Department of the Council of State. Both opinions confirm that you can do something about it and that you are indeed competent to withdraw custody of language legislation from the Brussels authorities. You can create special administrative supervision for this, for example by entrusting the power of destruction to the vice-governor. Until today, however, nothing has happened in this area as far as government is concerned. In my capacity as a Member of Parliament, I have done my job of resolving it by legislative means. Unfortunately, my initiative was voted down. There is another proposal in the Committee on the Interior. However, it is not discussed. Nothing's happening. That is why my question to you is as follows. How long will you tolerate this incivism of the Brussels guardians? Will you finally take initiatives to put an end to this incivism in the very short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u78	Mrs Pas, I find it unacceptable, like you, that language laws should not be respected. The language laws, as you yourself cite, are laws of public order. There can therefore be no deviation from that. The opinions of the Standing Committee and of the Council of State, which you are quoting, and the report by the Vice-Governor, say very clearly that administrative supervision of the Brussels municipalities and OMCWs lies with the Brussels Government and the Joint Community Committee. The legislator has ensured that each language group in Brussels can ensure that the language rights of its language group are guaranteed. That is why parity has been ensured in the Brussels Government. I regret, of course, that the Prime Minister of Brussels does not take care of the Flemings in Brussels and does not ensure that only officials who know both national languages are recruited. I would almost say that the responsibility of the Flemish ministers in Brussels is even greater. It is their responsibility and duty to ensure that the interests of the Flemings in Brussels are not harmed. An interplay in the Brussels Parliament would therefore be more appropriate. I agree with the first part of your analysis, which shows that it is poignant that the language laws, although they are of public order, are not being complied with. With the second part, which claims that both the VCT and the Council of State say that I am competent to withdraw custody from the Brussels authorities, I do not agree. Read the advice carefully. What you're saying is not in there. However, it says that the federal government could organise a specific supervision by a simple majority. There is no such simple majority at the moment. There is also nothing in the coalition agreement about this adjustment. You know, or you do not know, that it is impossible to realize something that is not in the coalition agreement when there is no consensus in the government. A new coalition agreement will have to be written next year. At that time, therefore, this adjustment must certainly be taken into account in the discussions. I hope that sufficient parties will be found in the drafting of the next government agreement to support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u79	Minister, it is actually sad to hear. I understand that the main responsibility lies in Brussels. We are also talking about this in the Brussels Parliament. My colleague, Dominiek Lootens, has already regularly questioned the relevant ministers, but if it does not want to succeed there, it is not in the government agreement either, and there is no basis for doing anything about it, then it is up to the custody minister to intervene. I regret that you are hiding behind the fact that there is no consensus on this. For example, there is a consensus on merging the Brussels police zones, but that is not what you are going through. That's a misdemeanor that's cited when it comes out. You could refer it to the Consultative Committee, but nothing is happening. There's no will to change it at all. Perhaps next year it is no longer necessary to include it even in a government agreement and the situation there is already far too messed up to correct them. I deeply regret the lack of ambition of someone who has the powers to do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u80	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Home Affairs, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, - having regard to the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters, in particular Article 21; - having regard to the report of the Deputy Governor of the Administrative Arrondissement of Brussels-Capital for the year 2017, - whereas in 2017, 72.2% of recruitments by Brussels municipalities were in breach of the language law in administrative matters; - whereas, in the same year, 94.0% of recruitment by the Brussels OMCW was contrary to the language law in administrative matters: - whereas in both cases a further decline of not less than 5% compared to the situation in the previous year has taken place; - whereas the Brussels custody authorities have not destroyed any of the illegal appointments, although, according to the settled case law of the Council of State, the power of destruction conferred on them was not granted optionally, but an obligation; - whereas under this (federal) government, the number of illegal appointments in the municipalities has so far increased from at least 60.9 % (2014) to 72.2 % now a decline of - and for the OMCWs from 86 % (2014) to 94% now a decline of 8 %; - having regard to the opinion of the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring (No. 49.126/1/PN of 24 May 2017) and the opinion of the Legislative Section of the Council of State (No. 62.235/AV, Chamber of Representatives, section 54-3399/003), which confirms that the federal government has competence in the area of language law in Brussels-Capital, and that it is also fully competent to withdraw its administrative supervision, which currently rests with the Brussels authorities, by creating special administrative supervision; - whereas the latter can be done by entrusting the power of destruction to the Vice-Governor in future; calls on the Government to take a short-term initiative in this area by removing the power of destruction of illegal appointments in Brussels local authorities under the language law in administrative matters from the Brussels Government and from the Joint Commission's unified College and entrusting it to the Vice-Governor of the Brussels-Capital administrative district through the establishment of special administrative supervision." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security and Interior, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments, - having regard to the coordinated laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters, and in particular article 21 thereof; - having regard to the report of the Vice-Governor of the administrative district of Brussels-Capital for the year 2017; - Whereas in 2017, 72.2% of recruitments carried out by Brussels municipalities violate the provisions of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters; - Whereas in the same year, 94.0% of recruitments carried out by Brussels CPAS violates the provisions of the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters; - Whereas in both cases a decrease of not less than 5 % was again observed in relation to the situation of the previous year; - Whereas the Brussels supervisory authorities have not annulled any unlawful appointment, whereas, according to the settled case-law of the Council of State, the power of annulment conferred on them is not optional, but compulsory; - Whereas under this (federal) government, the number of illegal appointments has increased – in any case until now – from 60,9 % (2014) to 72,2 % at present – a deterioration of 11,3 % – in the municipalities and from 86 % (2014) to 94 % at present – a deterioration of 8 % – in the CPAS; - having regard to the opinion of the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control (No 49.126/I/PN of 24 May 2017) and to the opinion of the Legislative Section of the Council of State (No 62.235/AV, House of Representatives, document 54-3399/003), where it is confirmed that the language legislation in Brussels-Capital is within the competence of the Federal Government and that the Federal Government also has the full powers to withdraw the administrative control of the latter, which is currently the responsibility of the Brussels institutions, by creating a specific administrative supervision for this purpose; - Whereas this last point can be achieved by now conferring the power of annulment on the Deputy Governor; Calls on the Government to take an early initiative in this area by removing the power to cancel illegal appointments in Brussels local administrations under the Law on the use of languages in administrative matters from the Brussels Government and the College of the Joint Community Commission to entrust it to the Vice-Governor of the Brussels-Capital administrative district, through the establishment of a specific administrative authority." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Conseil Degroote. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Koenraad Degroote. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u81	Deputy Prime Minister, our road network is used by many foreign users – and I'm not just talking about transmigrants! - many of which do not know any of our three national languages. Whether they are tourists, international drivers, visiting or in transit on our Belgian roads and motorways, all of them, at one point, can be confronted with the need to have a dialogue with the different police forces. Police officers working on these axes should be able to make themselves understood in order to express their injunctions or, for example, to understand the different protagonists in the drafting of an accident report, in particular. Are there any specific measures to give the different police forces concepts of languages other than our three national languages?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u82	Mr Flahaux, the Royal Decree of 30 March 2001 on the legal position of police personnel and the Ministerial Decree of 28 December 2001 provide that any police personnel may take training in foreign languages if they are deemed useful. These useful languages identified in the Ministerial Decree are English, Spanish, Italian, Arabic, Chinese, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Turkish, Hungarian, Serbo-Croatian, Albanian, Serbian, Bulgarian, Romanian, Russian, Croatian and sign language. In its Annex 16, the Ministerial Decree determines for all services which languages are useful. For the learning of these languages, facilities of service are granted, as well as the payment of certain costs. The modalities are set out in Circular GPI 26bis. In addition to this regulation, various local initiatives are being implemented, mainly through the establishment of multilingual forms. They can be used as aid in certain situations, e.g. for an accident report questionnaire or for the explanation of a specific procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answer. It shows that there is a willingness to meet the expectations of the "clients", if I may say so, who are the motorists who cross our country. I can only rejoice. It's a bit like what was done for Brussels National Airport and its train station. The information is provided in French, Dutch and English, the most widely understood language.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u84	Mr. President, Minister, the police have been facing some difficulties for several years with gunfire training. At the level of local police, the number of trainings is limited due to insufficient infrastructure. Some areas also opt for training in private stands which, for some, do not meet the training standards required for police fire. Minister, in a context where police interventions are increasingly complex, there is a need to address this situation. To this end, what means are available by the federal government to enable police areas to train correctly in shooting? As part of the construction of the new police station in Tournai and considering that a shooting stand will be carried out there, could you tell me whether the federal government intends to put resources for the financing of this stand?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u85	Mr Delannois, it is up to the police areas to train their staff in the best possible conditions. No specific funding is provided by the federal government for police areas. Given this local competence and responsibility, local police areas are free to draw up their multi-year budgets according to the objectives they set themselves. The purpose of the appropriations made available by the Federal Government is the full responsibility of the local authorities. However, where it is possible to identify possible synergies between the federal police and one or more police areas in the use of shooting stands, the approach should be encouraged. This can be done in one direction when the federal police make available excess fire-stand capacity to police areas, as in the other, when one police area makes it available to the federal police or other police areas. The staffing made available by the federal government is determined and does not vary according to police area projects. The authorities of the city of Tournai will certainly have taken this into account in the development of the new police station.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u86	Mr. Minister, you know I'm a little disappointed with the answer. I would have preferred financial collaboration to be much more effective. The problem is there, and it's real. You know very well that many police officers have difficulty training, which is still extremely important, perhaps even more important today than yesterday. Indeed, when the police area is building a new police station, it is smart on its part to respond to this specific and important need. I could have hoped that the federal government would encourage us. To the limit, it could have been said that this was not done; in that case, the police should have continued to attend stands that were not appropriate. We use a lot of cars to get to these stands. I think you could have been pragmatic. You've used me to better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u87	Minister, since December 2017, the extension of police custody to 48 hours has come into effect. This measure requires certain facilities within the police stations' cells in terms of health. Minister, have any standards been enacted to ensure that cells are brought into compliance? If so, what is the assessment of the overall cost in the country and what means would be made available by the federal government for local police areas to ensure that the necessary adjustments are made?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u88	Mr Delannois, COL 11/2017 does not make any specific requirements or recommendations related to the detention infrastructure. The implementing provisions on infrastructure for cells used by the police services are to be found in the Royal Decree of 14 September 2007. In that order, although article 1 defines a police cell as the infrastructure for the detention of a person for a maximum period of 24 hours, article 11 provides that a police cell, when intended for detentions exceeding 24 hours, has a floor area of at least 7 m2 and is equipped with a table and a seat anchored to the ground. In the case of sanitary equipment, a police cell must include a toilet, in accordance with Article 5 of the same Decree. No obligation relating to the installation of showers, for example, appears in the order. However, it is recommended that a shower be installed within the cell complexes, not only for detention up to 48 hours but also for general hygiene conditions. The Royal Decree has been in force since 2007 and standards incorporating the provisions of the Royal Decree as well as recommendations based on practices and advice provided by various supervisory authorities were established for the Integrated Police in December 2015. I am not in a position to provide any estimate by the federal police and certainly not for the local police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u89	Minister, thank you. You answered me a little technically. I'll look at this more seriously later. If I understand correctly, you're telling me that it doesn't change much anyway that the 24-hour police custody has been extended to 48 hours. What I had heard, and what came back to me, was that these cells had to be adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u90	No, I said that the 2007 Royal Order provides that for a 24-hour period of police custody, a cell with such a facility must be provided, and that for longer periods, it is necessary to add a seat fixed to the ground, and another element which escapes me, but which I mentioned in my reply. These two elements are already provided for in the old royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u91	I'll check the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u92	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Yüksel has already dealt with 26632 in the topical and urgent debate. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 266, by Mr Yüksel, No 26633 Point 26780, by Mr Thiébaut and others: 26904 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Burre has already been dealt with in conjunction with interplay No. 26637. 274 by Mrs Pas. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Gilkinet (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Debates of the European Parliament No 26644 by Mrs Lambrecht, President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 26930 by Mrs Lahaye-Battheu were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Onkelinx's 26648 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u93	Minister, I have a question about information and scientific research on private security. The recent amendment to the Private Security Act gave the private security sector more opportunities in security care and thus more forms of cooperation between private and public security actors. Contrary to what is available to the police, there is little scientific investigation into private security. If there are interventions in the public forum, both academics, politicians or opinion-formers are often morally directed or ideologically coloured. In his 2014 study on civil governance and community control. Success and failure of social interventions in the area of neighbourhood viability (Cahiers Police Studies 2014-1), the Dutch researcher Vasco Lub argues that a large part of the criminalists and city sociologists show a repulsion, sometimes implicitly, against the increased use of security, regulators and enforcers in public space. I quote: 'It does not seem to fit in with their world view that private security can play a positive role in improving safety.' I agree with the opinion of this researcher Vasco Lub that more empirical research on private security is needed. However, I note that very little attention is paid to this issue in universities, even though it is an important and important player in Belgium's integrated security policy. I know in particular the research group Governing and Police Security of Ghent University and the Centre for Police and Security, but I do not know if they regularly conduct academic research into private security, and to which reports that leads. The Private Security Directorate of the FPS Home Affairs could make more information available, including on the controls on the sector it carries out. The information currently available at https://vigilis.ibz.be is very limited. Many pages are also just copies of another page and do not provide any additional information. In what way does the FPS Home Affairs work with the academic world in relation to private security? What were the latest projects and what results have they led to? What is the Minister's view on the more frequent use of academic research to improve the knowledge and image of the private security sector? Can the Home Office put more information on the private security sector on the website?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u94	Mr Vermeulen, since 2014, no initiatives have been taken to establish cooperation directly from the Home Office with the academic world on the matter of private security. I would like to point out that the FPS, together with its partners, experts and stakeholders, carried out an extremely comprehensive and in-depth analysis of the regulatory framework. This resulted in the new law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and special security. The importance and value of research into the role of private security and its implementation is endorsed. When we are faced with a problem or a question in the elaboration or application of our regulations that shows that scientific research can bring added value, we will not fail to use scientific research and expertise. Since the entry into force of the new law, several initiatives have been taken to adjust the on-line and offline communication policy on private security. With regard to online communications, attention was paid not only to making information available to the sector itself, but also to citizens. To besafe.be, the renewed website of the General Directorate of Security & Prevention, a section Vigilis was added, with an online codification of the law, Vigilegis, with comments and clarifications per chapter, information on implementing decisions, thematic sheets and frequently asked questions. This information is regularly highlighted with news articles and messages via social media, as well as data on control policy. The content of these pages is regularly updated and supplemented. For example, the focus is currently on the further development of the thematic sheets and the aforementioned Vigilegis. The website vigilis.be is currently in use for interactive lists and secure e-stop shops. The interactive part of the vigilis website will eventually be integrated on the besafe.be website to centralise all information about private security. In addition, the importance of other offline communication channels is also attached to informing the sector and other stakeholders in collaboration with our private partners. One example that can be quoted here is the drafting and dissemination of the brochure "Private safety, the impact of the new legislation on employees of surveillance companies or internal surveillance services," which was developed on a joint initiative with the various representative workers' organisations and the employers' federation, united in the Fund for Security of Monitoring.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u95	Mr Minister, I am of course aware that extensive study work has taken place prior to the wish list, which then led to the first drafts and ultimately to an amendment of the law on private security which we have recently adopted. However, I do not think that this means that the work is completely finished. It's a little strange that the Home Office is starting to lock itself up at that level and make little use of the academic world, while there might be more to it. However, I am pleased that additional initiatives are being taken on communication, not only with regard to the sector but also with regard to the public. You referred to Vigilegis, but I didn't actually find much information about that by just Google. I was mostly on the besafe.be website and at Vigilis, which you said is mainly used for specific purposes. It is certainly a good thing that information leaflets are being produced, but they will always have to be updated. There will always be a lot of questions asked. For a sector that is so extensive and has such diverse operating modes, more information can still go to the public and the sector, but Rome was not built on one day, as I have already seen at other levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u96	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Benoit Hellings (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Questions Nos 26888 and 26689 by Mr Conseil Degroote are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Alain Top has converted 26696 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 26704 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u97	Mr. President, I warned that I had to leave at 6:30 p.m. If you wish, some questions can be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u98	Mr President, I will give you the number of the questions I wish to ask today. These are Joined Questions Nos 26755 and 26756 and Questions Nos 26762 and 26764. Then we'll see where we are.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u99	Mr President, you can postpone my question 26927 until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u100	Next week doesn't fix the minister. It will be for the next session.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u101	Minister, I begin with the first question. At the end of April, a leak of water into the Doel 1 reactor primary circuit (a few litres per minute) was discovered resulting in its immediate closure and the organization of inspections on the Doel 2 twin reactor. At the beginning of September, we learned that Doel 2 should remain closed until at least 31 December. What's going on? What exactly was discovered about Doel 2? Some are talking about a phenomenon of degradation of the water line that is reportedly occurring. Do you confirm that? What is the cause of this degradation? Has AFCN been required to provide an assessment of the situation and developments, including in terms of work undertaken or is it still expected to be clearer? Let me turn to my attached question. At the end of April, a leak of water in the Doel 1 primary circuit (a few litres per minute) was discovered, resulting in its immediate closure until October. Electrabel has announced that it will not be able to restart the reactor on schedule. It will be as early as December. What's going on? What exactly was discovered in relation to what had already been identified and which justifies this postponement until December? What else, if any, justifies this postponement? Has AFCN been required to provide an assessment of the situation and developments, including in terms of work undertaken or is it still waiting to be clearer? Is the cause of water leakage now known?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u102	Mr Nollet, the operator removed the part of the pipe concerned at Doel 1 and is currently conducting its laboratory analysis. The cause of this event has not yet been determined and no conclusions can be drawn at this time. The replacement operations for the part of the pipe concerned are currently under preparation. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA) has requested that the second pipe of the same Doel 1 cooling water system be also inspected, as well as the pipe of other nuclear power plants with the same reactor cooling system. The Doel 2 reactor alone is concerned. The operator is currently conducting inspections. He also decided to carry out replacement work on Doel 2's similar pipe. There has been an initial deterioration on the site. This degradation, however, is less than at Doel 1 and has in no way caused any leakage. Taking into account the additional time required to identify the root cause of this occurrence, as well as the time required for the replacement work at Doel 2, the operator also announced on its Transparency site an amendment concerning the restart dates of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors. AFCN and the technical subsidiary Bel V continue to monitor the situation carefully and the operator will only be able to restart the Doel 1 and Doel 2 reactors after receiving the green light from AFCN. I would like to remind you that AFCN has pro-actively provided updates to the status of Doel 1 and Doel 2 on its website on several occasions. I invite you to consult carefully the Agency's website in order to know the evolution of this file or to rest the questions in a future meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u103	I will start with this positive aspect, in my reply, because you are right: I have the impression that the communication of the AFCN has evolved a little. A little at a time, and therefore proactively, indeed, more "spontaneous" information can be found on the Agency's website. That's a good thing! Now, on the merits, beyond the communication of the AFCN, it is still challenging that five months after the discovery of the leak, we still do not know the origin, the cause! You're telling us the lab is still working on it. These are power stations – and I remember the debates we had with Minister Marghem in this same room – that were extended dare-dare, quickly done, in the last minute, before all the tests could be carried out. And today, we discover that in fact, in Doel 1, there is a leak, and in Doel 2 it is not yet the leak but a beginning of degradation, according to your own terms. This shows that these plants were obsolete and should not have been extended. And certainly not with the haste that has been shown! I will, of course, come back to the cause, to see more clearly, and I have of course noted that the Agency will never give its green light until it knows the cause. It is not all that we have replaced the pipe, we must also check the cause to see if we can restart the Doel 1 power plant and necessarily, Doel 2. If the analysis is similar, it will be the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u104	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, at the beginning of October 2017, there was almost by chance a serious deterioration of concrete in the bunker at Doel 3 which led to the immediate shutdown of the reactor for many months. I was immediately asking you about the situation with respect to the buildings of the other six reactors. On 25 October, you replied that the operator had been able to demonstrate credibly that the other reactors were not a priori affected by the degradation mechanism. What was not my astonishment to discover some time later, and despite this initial assertion, that the same problem had also been discovered in Tihange 3. As is too often the case in this sector, there is a clear refusal to analyse the risk and satisfaction with statements and other summary demonstrations. Following the discovery of this problem similar to Tihange 3, it was decided to carry out the necessary tests on Doel 4 and Tihange 2. These tests were carried out or started in August. What did they give? What is the quality of the concrete found in the bunkers of these reactors? What explains a possible difference? What measures have been taken? Have we discovered a real problem? When I asked the question, I didn't have the answer yet. I could be pleased with the Agency's pro-activity, but I found it odd only a few hours before I asked the question, the information arrived on the Agency's website. I would have found it more courteous to wait for the exchange in Parliament to publish the information. But it's done. Let us now analyse the situation. I'm listening to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u105	Mr Nollet, as I had already told you, ENGIE Electrabel decided to conduct the inspection of Tihange 2 during the scheduled shutdown in August 2018, and to advance the scheduled shutdown of Doel 4 from November 2018 to August 2018, just after the scheduled restart of Doel 3. The inspections carried out in August revealed indications of the ageing of concrete in the bunker ceiling, both in Doel 4 and in Tihange 2. Concerning Tihange 2, indications of the ageing of concrete had already been found during previous inspections and repairs were planned even before the inspections last August. Differences in the degree of concrete ageing are due to differences in the design of unit buildings. Both at Tihange 2 and Doel 4, analyses are under way in order to make a correct diagnosis before starting the repair work. The results of the analyses and the repair methodology will be discussed with the safety authority. As has been the case for Doel 3 and as is still the case for Tihange 3, the AFCN will not give its green light to the restart of the Doel 4 and Tihange 2 units before the safety of the buildings is demonstrated.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u106	Mr Minister, I thank you for this answer, which confirms the information that came out a few hours before our exchange in Parliament. The situation is serious; of our seven reactors, only two operate today. For four of them, concrete poses a problem in the ultimate emergency building. I can't understand that. In an area as sensitive as nuclear power, how could both the operator and the gendarmerie, the control agency, those people who are trained to work in the area not have discovered much earlier than there was a serious problem? You know my position on nuclear power. We're not doing the debate again. Nevertheless, the safety component is problematic. It is when something happens by chance that we test elsewhere and realize that we have to close a dare-dare reactor to correct the problem, in this case on the concrete. Minister, I do not want to bother you, but when you are told, on October 25, 2017, that the operator was able to demonstrate credibly that the other reactors are not affected by the degradation mechanisms and that in August, we realize that all the reactors – not the oldest ones that do not have the same technology but the four involved – have a problem, I consider that you must act and return to those who have made you say that. I'm pretty sure they're not your collaborators. They receive information from the federal administration, operator or the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. There's a serious problem, and I suppose you understand that. I don't want to add any more, but in October you told me that the other reactors were under control. Today, however, there is a problem with the four reactors. You have to at least see it with me. Of course, we'll follow the case. It is a question of determining the reasons, to see if the reasons are the same. We will see what work will have to be done. I'll ask you again. Today, however, I wanted to draw your attention because you are sometimes told things that are not credible. We can demonstrate that today. As far as nuclear safety is concerned, it is not good to have you say things that are not correct. There is no question here of a debate for or against nuclear power. There, our opinions diverge. It is a question of nuclear safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u107	Mr President, Minister, the concrete of the bunker at Tihange 3 is, as in Doel 3, severely degraded. Pieces detach and the concrete has become so frightful that metal reinforcing bars are visible. Corrosion is observed, a phenomenon that dangerously reduces the ability of these reinforcements to withstand an accident. In the newspaper Le Soir, the boss of Electrabel, Philippe Van Troeye acknowledged that "this phenomenon of ageing has not been taken to its proper extent by the teams", which must make you think, after the disaster that occurred this summer in Genoa. It's not the same thing at all, but it's also about concrete. Can you tell me what work is being planned and what work has already been done? Are we going to replace all the reinforcements or just reel concrete? In addition, in Tihange 3, some of these reinforcements were not arranged as planned. I don't know what's going on in Tihange 2 and Doel 4. You didn't say that earlier. We will be careful to see if there too, things have changed with regard to the plans. In Tihange 3, this seriously undermines the resistance of the structure. During our exchange on July 10, you told me that the positioning defects at the pin feet were at the level of their lower part, but that it was still difficult to identify the exact cause of this positioning defect. Two months later, was this cause established? On the other hand, you told me that, given their less worrying condition, the interior walls of the rooms were not the subject of stripping and repair. However, this means that they are not free from degradation. Can you give me more details on what is contained in this concept of "less worrying" and, therefore, on the extent of the degradation? Since then, have stripping and repair work been carried out? What is ENGIE's planned date for restarting this Tihange 3 reactor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u108	Mr Nollet, the work under way in Tihange 3 concerns the stripping of the ceilings of the various bunker premises housing the nozzles for the outlet of the steam exhaust valves. The stripping consists of removing the degraded concrete layer prior to repair work. The visibility of the rebars you mention in your question is precisely due to the stripping work undertaken. On 13 September, the stripping work in one of the three premises concerned was finalized and validated by the security authority. The method of repair will be tested in this room to be validated. The stripping work has also been completed in a second room and will be forwarded to the safety authority which will verify their quality. The stripping work in the last room is in the final stages of completion. Investigations to determine the need for stripping of corridor ceilings leading to these premises are also under way. It is not possible to replace frames cast into a concrete slab of this thickness. ENGIE Electrabel must determine whether, in its present situation, the slab is resistant to external events, as foreseen in the design. The AFCN will not give its go-ahead until the analyses have shown that this resistance is guaranteed. As regards the exact cause of the poor positioning of the frames, ENGIE Electrabel puts forward the probable hypothesis that they were displaced by the dumping of the concrete during its casting. With regard to the interior walls of the affected premises, AFCN and Bel V asked ENGIE Electrabel to demonstrate their structural integrity. To this end, ENGIE Electrabel launched a comprehensive test and test campaign and decided to strip the top of the sails around the ceiling of the affected premises and to make the necessary repairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u109	Does this concern mainly Tihange 3 or other power plants as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u110	Essentially Tihange 3! To date, AFCN and Bel V have followed and will continue to follow up on repair operations. The AFCN is concerned only with the safety of units and will not give the green light until it is demonstrated. It does not decide the dates for restarting because we decide at the moment on the basis of tests and checks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u111	I requested the date announced by ENGIE and not the date announced by AFCN. Anyway, I can find her. I understand that we discovered the problem of the reinforcements once the stripping started. That makes sense. The gravity appeared at that time. The difference probably, in any case, I hope, with Doel 3, is that there, too, has been enough stripping and that we have realized that there is no problem with the reinforcement. Given that the problem is identical to Tihange 2 and Doel 4, do we already know whether, by stripping, we discovered a problem of reinforcement or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u112	They're still busy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u113	They're stripping. Then I'll come back with that question. Indeed, this seems logical to me, since the work started later. Here, it is clear that the first one is completely decapitated, analyzed and that now they must consider what work to undertake. I'm not surprised, but I note that we can't put the frames back in the way they should have been placed. We can now simply calculate the resistance and examine whether this ultimate rescue vessel is strong enough to be able to cope with what you call aircraft crashes and other possible accidents. Our views differ on this aspect as well. All initial tests, etc. will have to be recalculated. I will obviously follow the file to see if the same problem does not arise for Doel 4 and Tihange 2. Why? Because according to the ENGIE hypothesis, and not from the Federal Agency or validated by it, the frame was not properly sealed as it should have been because of the pressure at the time the concrete was cast, but this problem can also very well happen at Doel 4 and Tihange 2. We will see, since there, the work is under way. In short, I think that we are doing very well again this parliamentary year, with many problems in the nuclear sector. These problems fall within your competence. I hope you don't mind me coming here on a regular basis to ask you questions about this. I would find it courteous that then the agency does not give the answers, a few hours before you can give them to Parliament. If she wants to do it several days before because she has to inform the citizens and the market, no problem, but a few hours before... I would have found courteous that we were waiting to be here in a meeting. Or else, it's postponed to fifteen days, and she communicates after. I found out about Belga just before I came here. I believe that this point can be improved from the point of view of respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u114	Mr Nollet, can you turn a few questions into written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u115	Mr President, I will look at this at my ease. Anyway, we're done for today. I'll tell you the ones I transform and the ones I keep. If I don't communicate, I'll keep them. If I communicate, I'll turn them into written questions. I understand that there was no sitting next week, but there will probably be one next week. I'll look at it according to the calendar. I wasn't going to improvise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-09-19-54-commissie-ic961x.u116	Questions Nos 26793 and 26933 by Mr Alain Top are converted into written questions. Questions Nos 26818 and 26901 by Mr Conseil Degroote are also converted into written questions.
