ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u1	Mr.President, I'm sorry, but I'm going to have to change some of this issue that was tabled on January 29, 2018, the day after the holidays. I guess it took a while to think about the answer, but it's June! A little bit more, we arrived on July 21 and we missed the answer to that question! I would therefore like, Mr President, to pay attention to getting answers within a reasonable time frame. I know that some people may consider this to be a random matter, but behind it there are public service infrastructures that are, in our view, essential, and there are also people who depend on it and who are waiting for answers. Minister, at the beginning of the year, as part of the reconstruction planned by the Masterplan III of the prison of Verviers, the residents of the prison received a letter from the Régie des Bâtiments announcing to them the expropriation of part of their property for public utility in the context of this reconstruction. It was expected from the beginning that there would be some expropriations but their number would be much higher than originally. The press reported thirteen plots at the time. I think that we are now at least 22 plots expropriated by the state, essentially paved Heusy, just after the ramp of access to the current prison, on the left going up and other plots in the gardens. Local residents have repeatedly been surprised at the extent of these expropriations and wonder about their need. In my question, I asked you whether these expropriations were necessary and whether you had planned a consultation with the residents, etc. In the meantime, there was at least one evening of information/meeting between the Régie des Bâtiments de la province of Liège and the residents, which basically did not calm people since there were individual visits and property assessments. The agents of the Committee for the Acquisition of Buildings and the Régie des Bâtiments went to the owners. Indemnities and deadlines for the evacuation of property have been set. At that meeting, it was determined that the buildings were to be evacuated by January 2019. I'm now being told about March 2019. So we can't see very clearly. Local residents are rightly concerned, as it would appear that at present there are no budget entries for this operation. I'm putting myself in the place of our fellow citizens. We are expropriated: agree; public interest: agree. They say they'll be paid for their own good. Okay. For now, as far as I know, there is not yet a euro planned. I wish the minister could have reassured those owners, who were rightly concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u2	Minister, my question dates from the day after the one tabled by Mr Frédéric. We have the same questions since we have been asking you or your predecessor or the Minister of Justice for many years about the future of Verviers prison. We are obviously very pleased that decisions have been made within the framework of Masterplan III and that finally we decided to recreate something in the centre of Verviers. We all agree: it is very important to give dynamism and enthusiasm to this city that really needs it. The reconstruction of the prison in Verviers can participate in its own way. Following a recommendation sent on 12 January by the Régie des Bâtiments, which I echoed, as did my colleague Frédéric, the decision to rebuild the Verviers site is in line with the logic of the project of redevelopment of the premises. Believing that it was a matter of expropriating two or three houses, the citizens concerned were concerned, while others feared receiving the same recommendation. At present, no money has been proposed to citizens for this expropriation. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, my questions are pretty much the same as those put by my colleague. What are the main reasons for these two or even three expropriations, if not more? And don't just tell me it's prison! Should we expect further expropriations? If so, when? When will you be able to encrypt a consideration for expropriated individuals? I know that it is the Committee for the Acquisition of Buildings that is in charge of this evaluation, but it still needs to have been commissioned by the Régie des Bâtiments. Is that so? The inhabitants concerned complained in particular about the lack of information received from the Régie des Bâtiments. How can they be better informed to try to prevent legitimate concerns?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u3	Minister, my question is quite recent, as it is dated May 10. On March 31, 2019, some 20 residents of Verviers Prison will have to have left their homes. In question, an expropriation with a view to expanding the prison and its car parks. While this fact is now acted upon and accepted - which is not nothing - the persons concerned are nevertheless in a state of uncertainty as to the purchase price of their property. The locals are asking questions. Indeed, while this expropriation has been on the agenda for more than two years and a meeting between the Régie des Bâtiments, of which you are responsible, and the representatives of the city has already taken place, no information is available on this subject. This is obviously a problem for all those who need to plan their move and look for new housing. If the administrator of the Régie des Bâtiments, who is in my district, has announced that the residents will be informed, he has not specified within what time. According to informal information, this would be by September. So there will only be six months left to accept the offer, find a new property and move. Minister, do you know when the redemption amounts will be announced to the individuals concerned? In the event that this information is late, do you think that additional time would be possible to provide the owners with sufficient time to arrange their departure?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the planned expropriations are indeed indispensable in order to allow the creation of a new ramp for access to the site, meeting the needs of a modern prison and its construction site. Some expropriations are also intended to enable the future prison to meet the new security standards, at the request of the SPF Justice, but also of the neighbourhood and its inhabitants. I can confirm that no further expropriation is planned. An information meeting was held on 22 February 2018 with the residents concerned by the expropriations. All the actors in the project were present to answer all their questions. The residents who were not affected by the expropriations were informed of the project by mail. Further consultation meetings will be held in the coming months, depending on the significant progress made on the issue. A letter will soon be sent to the residents to inform them of the continuation of the procedure. In September 2018, the exact amounts of the value of the property of each of the residents will be determined. After the announcement of these prizes, expropriated persons will have at least six months to leave their homes. We are currently trying to ascertain to what extent this time limit could be extended. The schedule provides that expropriated property will not in any case have to be released until the end of March 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u5	Mr President, I thank the Minister for these clarifications. We see it a little clearer. Without trying to blacken the picture, I fear that, from time to time, people will find themselves stuck. The expropriation was announced to them several months ago, and they have to wait six months to know the valuation of their property. In addition, even if the assessment is done, these individuals must agree to the proposed amounts and there is likely to be a negotiation phase. So I have concerns about the deadlines. This expropriation operation will also have an impact on the schedule for the reconstruction of Verviers prison originally announced in 2020 and then in 2022. I hope that we will have the opportunity to attend its inauguration, both myself, who are almost gendered but always alert, and Mrs Kattrin Jadin, who is younger than me. Minister, I ask you to give the necessary importance to this issue because families are currently living in fear.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u6	Mr. President, even if Mr. Frédéric is almost gendered, he still has the strength to work. I thank the minister for his answers. I think it is important to pursue a policy of coordination within the framework of this necessary expropriation for reasons of public utility which, as I said, is done on request and on behalf of the Régie des Bâtiments, itself under the supervision of the SPF Finances. A better coordinated policy will ensure that this project is carried out and that the inhabitants concerned are reassured. The pressure must be maintained, taking into account the requirements of the Régie des Bâtiments, but there must also be a great deal of understanding of the people who must be expropriated. I hope, in any case, that we will be able to move forward on time and with due diligence.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. As I said earlier, this expropriation is being carried out and accepted by local residents. I also recognize that the more information you can give, the better. In any event, like my colleagues, Mrs Kattrin Jadin and Mr André Frédéric, I do not despair that the inauguration of the prison will take place within a fairly short time. In any case, as a "sexigenary", I hope to be able to attend as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u8	I give the floor to Mrs Lalieux, who must go and chair another committee. Madam, you can ask your three questions, but try to be brief: other members are waiting for their turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u9	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, I tabled this question on 25 January. We then learned from the press that an agreement would have been reached between the Régie des Bâtiments and the Ancienne Belgique on the new assignment of the American Theatre, as well as on its exploitation. However, you are aware that the City of Brussels has, on several occasions, shown its interest in this place. You had received a letter in January about this, and I even came to talk to you about it in your office. The law provides that when an administrative authority decides to grant a right in rem (e.g. a right of emphyteosis), it must respect the general principles of administrative law, which are binding on the entire administrative action of the public authorities. In particular, the principles of equality and transparency must be respected, in order to give the various candidates an opportunity to demonstrate themselves. Minister, have you respected and applied these principles? Otherwise, the Régie des Bâtiments is at risk of recourse and/or punishment. You said that the Ancienne Belgique would be able to have the American Theatre. On the other hand, you are aware that if the real right goes hand in hand with certain works and/or services, a requalification, for example, in concession of works or services, is not excluded. In the event of requalification, the regulations on works and services concessions will have to apply and the award of the contract will have to comply with the necessary formal award procedures. Minister, have you considered this assumption? Have you seriously and objectively taken into account the proposal of the City of Brussels? If so, what analysis have you or your administration done? Well, what's the timing? Minister, I must note today that this remarkable jewel of the American Theatre, which dates from Expo 58, is rotting on its feet.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, I shall be brief. I can confirm that there is no agreement between the Régie des Bâtiments and the Ancienne Belgique on the transfer and operation of the American Theatre. The Régie des Bâtiments is currently studying the question of the destination of a number of buildings which it manages and which are not necessary for the performance of its missions. The American Theatre is one of them. For the latter, the formula of an emhyteotic lease will be studied in accordance with the legal provisions. No specific timetable has yet been established. In summary, no decision has been taken at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u11	Minister, I must tell you how disappointed I am with your answer. A precarious lease has been fixed. The site was maintained for years. In my view, it was for Community and linguistic reasons that you drove the City of Brussels out of it. As an échevine de la Culture, I inform you that we have developed projects for Brussels artists, regardless of their mother tongue. This is how we practice cultural policy in Brussels, because we build bridges above all else. For political reasons, you are letting a building rot. You know that you will not take it back and that you will have to take all these steps. You gave me the same answer three years ago. This means that in five years we have not made progress. Our capital lacks space for artists and band recordings. If the problem arose in another city and with a certain mayor, you would not adopt the same attitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u12	Mr President, I am expected in other committees. Couldn't Mrs. Jadin and I ask our questions in telegraphic style?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u13	I have proposed that Mrs Lalieux ask her questions, because she must go and chair another committee. But as Mrs Lalieux sees no problem, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u14	Mr President, Minister, the insistence with which I have asked questions on the same subject demonstrates the urgency that must be given to this issue. I am pleased that a Member of Parliament from Liège has the same urgency as I do in this area. Minister, I had the opportunity to visit already six months ago the current buildings of the Eupen Federal Police, located Herbethaler Strasse 27, which are half of the old apartments dating back to the early twentieth century. An emergency appeal was made at the time by the unions in Eupen. The postmasters of the DirCo and the DirJud were also present, as well as the chief of corps of the Weser-Göhl police zone in Eupen, to tell us of the urgency with which to act, first of all with regard to the well-being at work. Indeed, the current buildings located Herbethaler Strasse are in very poor condition, as you know. At my request, the Director General of the Régie des Bâtiments also gave us the honour to see for himself the condition of these buildings. These buildings do not meet the standards of well-being at work. In addition, at the end of 2017, a fire spread in these ten buildings, which only encouraged the on-site protagonists to say loud and clear that something had to be done. First, the Régie des Bâtiments must demonstrate that it wishes to make a gesture for the people on the spot who deserve to work in decent conditions, in minimum security conditions. The Régie des Bâtiments must already take some steps in this regard. In view of the various reports issued, what measures can be taken immediately to at least satisfy the conditions of safety and well-being at work? My second question concerns the future. Saving furniture is one thing, minister, but considering the future is another. For example, the Weser-Göhl police area has been struggling to make decisions over the past 15 years. In this regard, the various mayors who have succeeded each other since 2001 bear a responsibility for the situation in their area. It is true that the premises of the Federal Police are in poor condition and require a solution. By miracle, an agreement was reached between the federal police and the area to work together, so that economies of scale would be recorded and services would become more effective. The desire to build a common building for local and federal police services has been evident since March. The needs-based programmes have been developed, transmitted and partially endorsed by the Finance Inspectorate. So, Minister, what is the government's political will to move forward on this crucial issue for my region? Federal and local police officers continue to hope that one day an accelerator will be given, even if they know that a decision does not necessarily have immediate effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u15	Minister, my colleague drew up the scenario. I will therefore complete what she said about this police building, sis route from Herbethal 12 to Eupen. This building is in a lamentable state and is occupied by both the Weser-Göhl police zone and the federal police. According to the press, an agreement was finally reached between the local and federal police services to implement the project. That's indispensable. Like my question at the end of March 2018, three months have passed since then and I would like to have more details on this agreement. The German-speaking government, which could subsidize sanitation for the area in question, declares, inter alia, that it is not concerned because, in its view, it is a federal matter. Minister, as minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, could you tell me what is the state of construction of the new police building in Eupen? Are we still under study? What is the status of permits? Do you confirm that an agreement has finally been reached between the two levels of power, local and federal? What is he? Finally, what is the total cost? How will funding be distributed between the federal police and the police area?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Régie des Bâtiments is aware of the current state of the federal police buildings in Eupen and regularly takes the necessary steps to improve the safety of staff pending the construction of the new "Federal Police - Local Police" complex. For example, the Régie recently intervened to put the installations in order, improve the acoustic performance of the Salduz premises, replace floor coverings, replace shower cabins and carry out other necessary work. With regard to the development of a new complex for the federal police, the Régie des Bâtiments is currently undertaking two steps jointly with the local police: on the one hand, the collection of information from owners of land to be built with sufficient surface space to install future police buildings and, on the other hand, a feasibility study of the Herbesthal road site, which must define to what extent the programme of needs established by the local and federal police could be carried out on this site. Depending on the chosen option, a timetable will be drawn up taking into account the procedures to be followed and the work to be planned on the basis of the existing situation. As for the specific budget, it will be determined on the basis of the site and the method of financing selected. In this case, direct financing, PPPs, etc. can be referred to.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. So, first of all, I hear that significant investments have been made and I was able to realize that. I know that the Régie des Bâtiments acts, when it has the possibility, because it does not have many possibilities. You probably know better than I do the provisions that are his in buildings that are not meant to be sustainable. I will invite you, if you wish and if you agree, Minister, to come and see on the spot the situation in which these agents are in order to understand the urgency they are facing. The urgency for these agents who, in the end, do not have the opportunity to work decently in the current buildings, that of thinking about solutions, even alternatives, were they non-permanent. Secondly, I hear – and I am pleased and thank you for taking this matter to heart, Minister – that studies exist to see if there are still opportunities on the Herbesthaler Strasse site to rebuild something in a common way. I am also very willing to provide, along with other protagonists of my Region, the assistance that would be necessary for the services you are responsible for finding a site that may be suitable for future construction. I am also pleased to hear that the will, including the Internal SPF and the Régie des Bâtiments, is to continue to move forward together in this project "Relocation-Rehousing Federal Police and Police Zone". This is obviously very important, encouraging, and I see it as a very strong sign, that the police and the services, as well as all the municipalities involved, expect not only from you but also from those responsible for the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answers. The work you have actually cited in your response is necessary work, which is essential for the establishment to remain healthy. I take note of this and believe that we should move to a higher speed, start all the procedures, make the necessary agreements and apply for studies and permits for a new building, as the file is not progressing as fast as desired. I would like to remind you that people are working in this building that is currently not suitable. Minister, I expect you to respond to this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u19	Mr Degroote's oral question No 24000 is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u20	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, it must be noted that the state of the sculpture garden of the Royal Museums of the Fine Arts of Belgium, located on Rue Royale, leaves something to be desired and clearly lacks attractiveness and, above all, maintenance, while it has enormous potential both in its location and in the fountains and sculptures that make up it. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is it up to the Régie des Bâtiments to carry out the maintenance and enhancement of this garden? If so, will concrete initiatives be taken in this direction in the near future? If not, is there any discussion with your colleague in charge of scientific policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u21	Mrs Lalieux, the maintenance of the garden of the sculptures of the Royal Museums of Fine Arts in Belgium is indeed the responsibility of the Régie who subcontracted this work to an outside firm. The work that is carried out in the garden is maintenance work (tonne of lawns, size of hedges, plantation of bulbs,...). A lot of maintenance work has already been done and we will do everything necessary to get everything back in order, step by step.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u22	Deputy Prime Minister, this is really step by step because you have to see the state of this garden! This garden contains remarkable pieces and is a highlight of sculptures and fountains. It is not only a subcontractor but also the heritage value of all sculptures and fountains. If I understand correctly, we should not expect much because you don't have work planning. I don't feel like you're passionate about this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u23	Mr President, I imagine that this question will be equally passionate! Mr Minister, as we know, the federal museums and the Royal Conservatory of Brussels – but all this is in Brussels, so it is of little importance! – are often in a sad state. In the face of this urgency to see works on the buildings finally being carried out, under this legislature, the Brussels-Capital Region has agreed that important budgets of Beliris – in principle dedicated to projects stricto sensu Brusselsis – should be devoted to the renovation of exclusively federal buildings, namely the federal museums and the Royal Conservatory of Brussels, and that is very well, it took years to reach an agreement on the latter. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr. Minister, the following questions: - What is the status of 2018 in the execution of the various works planned in these federal museums? What are or will be the works under way by the end of the legislature? - Could you indicate the various amounts already available for this work? Will these resources be sufficient to respond to the current situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u24	Mrs Lalieux, it is planned that Beliris will invest in the renovation of various federal museums in Brussels, specifically the Museum of Art and History, the Royal Institute of Artistic Heritage and the Royal Museums of Fine Arts. Beliris also invests in studies prior to the renovation of the Royal Conservatory of Brussels. With regard to the renovation of the roofs of the Museum of Art and History in the Cinquantenaire, Beliris provides a total of 9.9 million euros. The renovation is scheduled to begin in the fall of 2018. With regard to the renovation and restoration of the buildings of the Museum of Art and History and the Royal Institute of Artistic Heritage, a financial contribution from Beliris is foreseen for the works. The related studies will be funded by the Régie des Bâtiments and will begin in the course of 2019. At the Royal Museums of Fine Arts, renovations will be carried out on the roof in 2018 and 2019. They are estimated at EUR 5.4 million. Work will also be carried out as part of the implementation of phase 5C of the Masterplan. These are estimated at EUR 12 million. Beliris will also make its financial contribution for this work, in accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers of 18 May 2016 on federal scientific institutions. However, no agreement on the exact amounts has been reached at this time, as they are not yet known. Finally, with regard to the Conservatoire de musique, Beliris will be responsible for some of the studies amounting to EUR 2.35 million. The selection procedure for the assignment of the master plan for the renovation of the Conservatory to a study office is in the process of being completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u25	Minister, we know that it is Beliris who invests mainly in these Brussels buildings, even if they are federal, and that the Régie makes little contribution to them. That said, you're talking about 2018-2019, especially for the Royal Museums. However, we arrive in July. I guess you don't know the timing of the launch of public procurement yet. We always intend to quote dates, but without a real calendar. I will then ask you a written question which, I hope, will allow me to obtain a more precise answer. Mr President, my questions go back to 25 January and 9 March. After so many months, I think I have the right to receive more detailed answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u26	Yes, Mrs.Lalieux, many questions were introduced in January. The meeting we had held in March had lasted barely half an hour because everyone had postponed their questions. The Minister was here in March and many members moved their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u27	Mr Minister, my attention is drawn to developments in the heritage of justice services in the province of Luxembourg. In October 2016, the president of the court of first instance in that province gave a rather unflattering picture of the state of justice (computerization, staff shortages, etc.) and also highlighted the state and lack of security of a number of justice buildings. On November 23, 2016, I had the opportunity to question your Justice colleague on this finding. Fifteen months later, I would like to know what progress has been made since the situation has hardly improved. As far as infrastructure is concerned, it turns out that in Neufchâteau, the security work of the old courthouse has not yet started, the recommendations of the firefighters concerning the safety standards in the new palace have not all been met (except for one or the other point) and a lot of problems (lighting, water infiltration, mushrooms, heating, elevator...) are regularly observed in the new palace. In Marche-en-Famenne, the security work of the buildings has not been carried out and is not announced. At the courthouse in Arlon, in winter and summer, air conditioning reveals many surprises and poses a problem with conditions and well-being at work. Minister, thank you for letting me know the status of each of these buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u28	Mr. Maingain, with regard to Neufchâteau, the security work is under way and is expected to be completed in July 2018. It should be noted that the building of extension of the palace was acquired by the Régie clé sur porte, in the state. The building has certain defects and some building materials are of lower quality (robinery, lighting, etc.). These defects are corrected as they arise. In Marche-en-Famenne, the work to secure the extension (block B) of the courthouse has been notified and is expected to begin in September 2018. The security work of the old palace (block A) is included in the 2018 priority list. Yesterday, June 18th, we opened the offers. Work is expected to begin this year again. The following HVAC (Heating, Ventilation and Air-Conditioning) works were also carried out: replacement of boilers and control of blocks A and B and replacement of the installation of heat pumps in blocks C and D. Finally, in Arlon, the regulation of block B has been replaced. Work is under way to replace the production of ice water with a VRF type air conditioning (heat and cool) in block A.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u29	Minister, I take note with attention, interest and satisfaction of these advances, which will certainly be appreciated by the staff of these different jurisdictions. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u30	Joined questions Nos 24507 and 24720 by Mr Hendrik Bogaert and Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu are deleted as they have not given any news.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u31	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, whether it is during parliamentary question sessions or during budgetary debates, we are constantly pointing out many inconsistencies in the day-to-day or long-term management of the federal real estate assets. We'd like to break the tool that we wouldn't do otherwise. As a result of this chaotic management, many facilities such as our federal museums, for example, have become obsolete, and wasteful and time-consuming. The latest Court of Auditors Paper confirms our concerns about budget cuts. The consequences for the deterioration of the federal heritage are very concrete, as can be seen on the ground throughout the Kingdom. This situation is worrying both in terms of the good father of the family and in terms of the health of the officials and the public concerned, not to mention, of course, the image of our country when we see the state of our museums or the courthouse, for example. When we read this Cahier, we have several questions and I would like to ask them to you. The Court of Auditors stresses, once again, the absence of a royal decree setting out the rules which the Régie is obliged to observe in order to use its endowments, which complicates budgetary management. In fact, several rules would not have been respected in the allocation of endowments. Minister, do you intend to pass an order clearly defining these rules for the use of the various endowments and financial reserves? The Court is talking about a decision of the Council of Ministers, within the framework of the redesign, to reduce the allocation by 10 million euros in 2016. Since no restructuring is yet linked to this economy, which is therefore not in line with the objective of the redesign programme, what is the situation today? Also at the level of national heritage, the government decided in 2016 not to grant a grant from the National Lottery, blocking other projects up to €8.8 million. What projects were affected by this cut? How can I justify it? What restoration projects – which are very often known to be imperative – have been postponed to EUR 5.6 million? At the level of the Royal Conservatory of Brussels, the Court recalls, if necessary, the urgency of the renovation work and the delays of more than two years. She indicated that, in mid-2017, funding arrangements remained unclear. What about today? With regard to operating expenditure, the judgment is also without appeal, and I quote the Court of Auditors' report: "The Court of Auditors finds that the Régie is not in a position to regulate the office space of the various public services or to impose relocations", which means that it does not achieve your savings objectives. Mr Minister, therefore, how do you intend to proceed in the future when the Court of Auditors lists several projects that are skating?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u32	Mr Laaouej, for your first question, following the Court of Auditors' recommendation in its comment on the 2016 adjusted budget, I asked the Régie des Bâtiments to ask the SPF BOSA (Beleid en Ondersteuning/Strategy and Support) about the need and nature of a financing order. SPF BOSA replied that, on the basis of articles 80 and 89 of the Act of 22 May 2003 on the organization of the Federal State's budget and accounts, it would itself prepare a royal decree which would set uniform rules for the payment and use of allocations for all public interest bodies (PIOs). A separate royal decree for each body was therefore not necessary. Consequently, the Régie has not taken any initiative in this regard. This royal decree was published on 31 July 2017. It shall implement Articles 20, § 2, paragraph 2, 78, paragraph 1, 80, paragraph 2, 86, paragraph 1, 87, § 2/1, 89, paragraph 1, and 96, paragraph 1, of the Act of 22 May 2003 on the organization of the budget and accounts of the Federal State. For the Régie, I refer you to section 11. Moreover, the Court of Auditors has no longer included the remark in its last workbook. With regard to your second question, during the budgetary control of 2017, the operating costs and rents allocated to the Régie des Bâtiments were reduced by €5 million each time. This is indeed a single operation, not a structural one. However, sustainable efficiency gains are expected as soon as the redesign of the Régie has produced its effects. I am thinking, for example, of a greater focus on portfolio management and optimisation, the centralisation and consolidation of maintenance contracts, the implementation of the necessary organisational and information technology tools and the installation of the internal and external monitoring and reporting system. With regard to your question concerning the subsidies of the National Lottery, on 11 May 2017, after consultation between the latter and the Régie des Bâtiments, the Minister of Budget instructed the Lottery to pay the arrears of grants. On 6 March, the Commission placed additional conditions on the payment of the grant. The Régie des Bâtiments takes the necessary steps to satisfy it. However, it has implemented all planned projects with these grants through its own investment allocation. As a result, it has neither blocked nor postponed projects and will recover pre-funded amounts once the arrears of grants have been released. As regards your question about the Royal Conservatory of Brussels, it is provided, in the shareholders' agreement of the limited liability company of the Royal Conservatory of Brussels in which the Régie is a shareholder next to the French Community and School Invest, that the costs of renovation of the building will be borne by each shareholder at the level of one third. A procedure for the appointment of a study office is currently under way at Beliris. This study contract is expected to be awarded in September and will determine the extent of the work and its cost. Once this financial data is known, the partners of the public limited liability company will be able to reflect and agree on how the works will be financed. In response to your last question, I would like to point out that the moves that have been approved by the Council of Ministers are very complex operations. The introduction of the new ways of working (NWoW), the interoperable layout of the workspace and the introduction of a customer accountability system to occupy less space will ultimately lead to a considerable reduction in the number of square metres occupied. This will lead to the termination of the lease of the leased building and the sale of buildings that have become useless for the organisation of a public service. The goal is to lighten the current total portfolio by 7.3 million square metres, up to 1.1 million square metres by 2025. Validation of any new NWoW standard will be presented to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u33	Mr President, I thank the Minister for this answer. I will take the time to assess the factual elements that have been communicated to me and, if necessary, I will return to him. I must deplore the fact that, as confirmed by the minister, budgetary savings and cuts have been made on the means of the Régie. These measures are non-structural but real, when we know that this department needs modernisation, particularly in the computer field. Indeed, the audit report, which was formulated, points to many deficiencies that themselves reflect under-investment, particularly in information technology management. I hope that the budget cuts have not delayed all the modernization dynamics of the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u34	Mr President, Minister, this is a matter that Mr Vanden Burre and I have been following since the beginning of this Parliament. Haren's mega-prison file raises a lot of questions that are not answered or that are never very satisfactory. There are obviously issues relating to mobility, the environment - you will tell me that they are not within your competence - issues relating to respect for the rights of detainees - the competence of the Minister of Justice - but also issues relating to the budgetary transparency of this project. We must not hide it: a form of opacity surrounds the progress of this project while it will have very heavy budgetary consequences for public funds. Together with other colleagues, I have tabled a motion for a resolution aimed at carrying out, by the Court of Auditors, two audits in the prison sector linked to a public-private partnership, in January 2016, which is still pending before the Committee on Justice. In this context, we asked the Régie des Bâtiments for a series of documents. If we have received certain documents relating to the competition of this procurement, we have not received Part C of the specification and, in particular, which determines the penalties for non-compliance with the obligations of each of the parties. Nor have we received the bids from the bidders, and in particular from the preferential candidate, as well as the evaluation report of the amended bids, because of their confidentiality. We have always been somewhat surprised - at least we can say - at this desire to conceal documents that would allow parliamentarians to exercise their full right of control over government action. I do not think that it is possible today to infer from the law on public procurement that the administration of the Régie des Bâtiments can, at this point, conceal a number of essential documents. Moreover, as the Council of State pointed out in its judgment No. 210.561 of 20 January 2011, confidentiality can only be partial, failing which no control over the award of contracts would be possible. However, it is on the award of contracts that we wish to carry out our control. Moreover, it appears that the citizens' collective Transparencia could have, in the meantime, obtained, via a separate download platform, the reasoned decision to analyse the offers. But I do not consider that I have to use third parties to be able to exercise my supervisory role as a parliamentarian and that, therefore, the documents must be given to us, as has been required for a long time. In spite of all this, work has begun, if I am not mistaken, since there has already been, at first, a felling of some trees on the Keelbeek site. This suggests that the contract agreement will have been definitively awarded and the contract signed, while the Court of Auditors continues to answer untiringly that it has never had the right to review this procedure either. I will re-examine the Court of Auditors, but I know its answer in advance, and I will ask it once again to send an urgent request to your services. However, you know how much, Mr Minister, public-private partnerships have long been the object of the supervisory authorities, starting with the Court of Auditors, of very critical observations and doubts as to their interest and their added value both in terms of the efficiency of the procedures and in terms of the budget. In its report of 21 December 2011, our Court of Auditors already noted that the absence of sufficient prior studies concerning the government's decision in principle to choose the public-private partnership (PPP) formula, in particular the absence of the test of the added value of this choice compared to conventional financing, justified that this procedure should be challenged. This report referred to the case of the future Haren prison to illustrate its general observation. In France, the Court of Auditors also issued a report along the same lines in December 2017 and the current government has had the willingness, which must be welcomed, to give up this procedure because of a cost to the State which has ultimately proved too important. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you about Haren's mega-prison project. Do you confirm that the contract for Haren's mega-prison has been concluded? In the commission of 4 October 2017, you answered this question in the following terms: "The contract for the DBFM market," (Design, Build, Finance, Maintain) "relating to the construction of a new prison in Haren, will be definitively signed when the pending appeals against the permits are rejected and the part relating to the financing will be finalized. In the best case, this could happen at the end of 2017." Therefore, if the contract was concluded, on what date was it concluded? Can the Régie des Bâtiments finally provide us with a copy of this contract as well as the documents in the file that have not yet been communicated to us, ensuring, of course, that the law of 11 April 1994 relating to the advertising of the administration is complied with? How could the contract be concluded when appeals are still pending? If not, how did the work begin? Why has the budget commitment thus made by the State not been presented or discussed in Parliament, when it is a commitment which Parliament must endorse, in accordance with the constitutional requirement? Can the Committee on Justice or the Commission have all the documents relating to this public contract, including the reasoned award decision, even if it deletes the names of tenderers who have not been selected? How does the Régie des Bâtiments justify that the information concerned falls within the scope of business secrecy or business privacy? It seems to me to be contrary to the general principle of the control of government action and the duty to exercise transparency, particularly with regard to the allocation of budgetary resources, to systematically call for confidentiality on account of commercial interests. On 1 June 2017, the Institute of National Accounts delivered its opinion on the financial risk of this PPP. It considered that the contract contained a clause with a strong influence and three clauses on average and that, therefore, the assets of the project should be included in Cafasso's accounts. Is that the case today? Can we read the Institute's opinion on this matter? Indeed, we have only learned of it by means of the press. On the basis of which specifications has the public contract been awarded? The conditions underlying the granting of the environmental permit issued by Brussels-Environnement have indeed, and de facto, changed the original specifications. Has the DBFM Convention been communicated to the Court of Auditors? When will the Haren prison project be presented on the website of the Régie des Bâtiments? What is the final amount of late payment that the Belgian State must pay to the Cafasso consortium? You claimed, in fact, in the Committee on the Interior of 24 May that it was impossible for you to give us an amount, because the award had not yet been carried out. Is it not more than time to draw up a balance sheet of the accounts of the past PPPs, as well as the forecast budget of the planned projects? Finally, is Haren's prison still intended to replace the prisons of Forest and Saint-Gilles?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u35	Minister, the oral questions about the Régie des Bâtiments are part of an unfortunate tradition, since they always return to the issue of the mega-prison in Haren. For almost three years we have been asking you every two months, the opacity remains almost total. The Régie's answers consist of referring us to other bodies and entities: the Brussels Region and the City of Brussels, which also have their say and which have also issued permits in relation to this project. On the budgetary front, we are talking about several billion euros for the 25 years of concession. The manner in which the public contract was awarded to the Cafasso consortium raises questions. In addition, we do not have the necessary documentation for our parliamentary oversight exercise. This is not just the prison project, which Ecolo-Groen challenges. In the Committee on Justice, we have thus expressed our opposition to it. A second aspect of this dossier is transparency in the award of this public contract. At the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, I asked you about the pending appeals. You had always stated that you could not enter into a final contract signature as long as there were pending appeals and added that you wished to complete the procedure by the end of 2017. It's June 2018. In addition, you cannot make the documents public until there is a contract signature. This is the quadrature of the circle: the contract is not signed because of the appeals, and we, as parliamentarians, do not have access to any documents. For us, this situation is unsustainable. I'm coming back to you because almost six months have passed. Minister, what is the status of the contract signing procedure with the selected consortium, Cafasso? Are there any legal remedies still pending? The last time I questioned you, there was one left. You were hopeful that the Régie would win. Depending on the progress of these legal proceedings, when, if it has not already taken place, will the contract be signed? If it has already taken place, when will we have access to the documents related to the contract or, if applicable, the amount of late payment already paid by the Régie to the consortium Cafasso. Have any allowances been paid so far? Currently, what is the amount of late payment that the Régie may have to pay? This case has accumulated many delays. Today, we are almost a year and a half after the normal deadline. I also heard that work had already begun on the Haren site. Can you confirm that? If so, what has already been achieved, what is being achieved? Under what contractual guarantees? Under what agreements? There is still some legal uncertainty, and I would like you to shed some light on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u36	Colleagues, the town planning permit was issued on 24 December 2016; the application for suspension of the permit was rejected on 29 September 2017. The environmental permit was issued on 9 March 2017 and the application for suspension was rejected on 6 December 2017. In so far as the application for suspension in the Keelbeek procedure was also rejected, the Régie des Bâtiments, as indicated by the Commission, could have devoted itself to the terms of the contract at the end of 2017. Since the basic permit was admissible, it was decided to start the logging of the trees before the biological stoppage, pending the decision in the Keelbeek procedure. So far, this decision has not yet been taken by the Council of State and we have no information on a future deadline for it. As far as the budget is concerned, no contract has yet been signed. No final amount is yet known and that is why nothing has yet passed before Parliament. You have formulated two questions concerning the PPP and the Institute of National Accounts (ICN). Once the contract is signed, it will again be forwarded to the NCI for review. The NCI always publishes its opinions. The dossier for the award decision was submitted to the competent authorities, which approved it. The requirements imposed during the licence were indeed dealt with, just as would have been the case for other bidders. As soon as we have an idea of the actual beginning, the date will be communicated to you via the ad hoc means of communication and information meetings will be organised for the residents in order to inform them in time of possible nuisances. No contract has yet been signed. Although the award has in the meantime taken place, no financial clause or contractual condition has been taken and the margins have therefore not yet been fixed. Similarly, no compensation has been paid since no contract exists. Allowances are forwarded to the NCI annually for future projects. The estimates will be adapted and communicated as projects evolve and the budget is prepared. Finally, I confirm that Haren's prison will replace those of Forest and Saint-Gilles.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u37	Mr President, I am not learning anything new. This is the same argument, from answer to answer. I continue to say that we have the right to obtain a set of documents to exercise our right of control over government action, including the famous Part C, the specification, which determines the calculation of penalties. I still do not hear any legal arguments that prevent us from getting to know this part of the specifications. I will therefore use other legal remedies and even legal remedies, given the number of times I have questioned the government when Parliament is entitled to the information that it is constitutionally required to receive. I have nothing to add at this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u38	Mr President, I would like to thank the minister for his answer, which is not very helpful and leaves the questions open. I have heard that work has begun, such as the felling of trees in accordance with the basic permit that is admissible. But I note that at some point a memorandum of understanding or pre-agreement has been finalized. Without possession of the documents, it is very difficult to exercise our control. Questions remain on the implementation of these operations and work. We had a confirmation from your colleague Geens about compensation when I asked him about the contract between Cafasso and the Régie des Bâtiments. These allowances were provided for in a verbal agreement between Cafasso and the Régie. I do not understand that we do not know more about the publication of possible amounts. Your answer is extremely laconic and we cannot continue to have such exchanges every three or four months. We will have to be more clear because we are turning around and I hope that your position is not deliberate. Your answer is not satisfactory at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u39	Minister, I have two questions about the redesign, which I will ask at one time. On 27 March, the ministerial committee gave its green light for the transformation of the Régie des Bâtiments into a public limited company under public law. Today, as you know, the Régie manages approximately 1,100 buildings, representing a total area of 7.3 million square metres. This transformation has an objective, Minister, as you yourself said in committee: "The Régie must grow to become an autonomous organization with a professional structure". More specifically, it is a matter of rationalizing the Régie and reducing the managed area by about one million square metres. This is what was announced in the various auditions we had on this subject, via an active asset management. The outline of the plan was also presented to us by Deloitte in this committee a few weeks ago. As you also know, the Ecolo-Groen Group is seeking a profound reform of the operation of the Régie des Bâtiments, but we are indeed sceptical, we have many questions about the plan announced. We believe that proactive management of the real estate portfolio needs to be put in place, that staff needs to be managed more optimally, especially in a qualitative way so that everyone can find themselves in clearly defined functions. As regards accounting, in particular the maintenance and publication of the annual accounts, we had the Court of Auditors' audit, which was quite catastrophic. The computer devices have also been described as dating back to the 1980s or even 90s at best. That's alarming. We therefore believe that the priority of public action should be put forward here, in a strong way, rather than going into announcement effects and changes in status. First, you announce the transformation of the Régie's status into a public limited company. What clear differences would this transformation bring with respect to the current status in view of the Régie's modernization objective? Isn't the rationalization you're announcing possible without changing the status? A whole series of things can be done without changing status, because this change would have other consequences that we do not want. The same applies to the collection of rents. The Régie wishes to charge public administrations rents, which we believe is reasonable. Why would this not be possible in the current structure? A second set of questions relates to the cost estimate of this redesign. Could you give us a better view of the costs, mail by mail? Will specific budgetary funds be released to pay for this reform? Furthermore, with regard to the collection of rents, what will be the relationship between the Régie and its tenant 'clients'? Will the Régie have more control over the management of its portfolio through the reform? How will this work in practice? Fourth, what about the Régie's non-rental heritage (historical buildings, memorials...)? Will federal staffing be maintained in this area? Fifthly, what about accounting, one of the black spots pointed out by the Court of Auditors? What about the implementation of the new accounting software that had been announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u40	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u41	The Minister must be able to prepare his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u42	I know, Mr. Chairman, but I didn't know the minister had received my questions. I'm reading you what I sent last week. Maybe there was a transmission problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u43	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u44	Answer me already with what you have, but I didn't add anything between the time I sent my questions and today. It's not a deliberate strategy. Finally, the multi-year investment plan 2020-2022 would have been presented by the Régie des Bâtiments at the Realty fair on May 16. Could you let us know?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u45	Minister, we are particularly concerned about the direction that could be taken on the future of the Régie des Bâtiments. We learned, not only from the press but also from the exchange that we had in committee with the hearing of Deloitte who made the audit report, that the government, meeting in Kern, gave its green light for the modification of the statute of the Régie des Bâtiments and for the transformation of this Régie, now parastatal to 100% and under your direct supervision, into a public limited company under public law with its own control. According to several articles, in this way you would like to make the Régie take the same path as that previously followed by Proximus and bpost. So it does seem, whether we want it or not, that we are eventually moving towards a form of privatization of the federal heritage and its management. Minister, can you present us with the reform and the new statute decided by the government, which will now govern the future of the Régie des Bâtiments? What are the objectives and reasons for such a reform? Does such a reform ultimately aim to inject more private people into federal heritage management? Is the public nature of this heritage concrete in the context of such a reform? What are the human consequences that are obviously fundamental, particularly on the status of civil servants and the functional consequences of this reform? Who will exercise guardianship or control over it? Finally, when will this reform enter into force and what will be the future name of the Régie? Mr President, I would add that the stakes are considerable. We're talking about 7 million square meters. It's not nothing. We're talking about a very important public real estate asset. The question therefore arises as to whether the modernization of the Régie cannot take place within the framework of its current legal form. What is it basically about? It must be noted that in the field of computerization and management efficiency, there is certainly more to be done. This is a first observation. But what makes it possible to say that turning to another legal form, the public limited company, will improve things? On the other hand, we agree that, on some fundamental points, we must have competence and give ourselves the means to bring competence, but, as far as I know, we were able to do so in other FPS at the time, without turning FPS into public limited liability companies. It is therefore possible to bring competence without necessarily – and I would remind you that there is also internal competence, first, but external competence if necessary (I am thinking in particular of computer science) – to change the legal form. And I would add: if you create a public limited company, you remove public control and public authority from the management of this company. Attention, therefore, to all these elements, and I dare hope – without conspiracy theory or trial of intent – that the aim is not to facilitate the sale of real estate in the budgetary context that we know, with a large debt, etc. We therefore really need clarification and special attention also on the future of the staff of the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u46	Colleagues, I confirm that in the context of a general review of the Régie des Bâtiments and a benchmark with similar real estate managers in Europe, the auditing firm Deloitte recommended, at the end of 2017, that the Régie be transformed into a public limited company "structured", not "split", into two pillars: on the one hand, Assets - real estate management and, on the other hand, Works - works and maintenance, in order to provide the necessary flexibility for the management of the federal real estate assets. The first steps of the reform have already been initiated with the implementation within the organization of the transformation plans elaborated. The transformation into a public limited liability company is expected to be completed by the middle of next year. It goes without saying, however, that the transformation will not stop once the legal framework for the SA has been created. The Régie des Bâtiments remains the exclusive partner of the federal state in the management of real estate assets. The question of whether or not to outsource certain tasks has not yet been resolved and the question of including private partners in the new structure is not on the agenda. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Régie des Bâtiments is not the owner of the federal real estate assets but only acts as a manager. The public nature of federal property will therefore remain unchanged. No decision has yet been taken on the minister who will supervise the reformed institution. However, I can already inform you that the new public limited liability company will be supervised by a board of directors and subject to the supervision of a government commissioner. As for the staff, they will maintain their acquired rights. Nothing will change in status, salary or seniority. Finally, the name of the future new Régie is not yet known. Mr Vanden Burre, you asked a question about the removal of a million square metres. The introduction of new ways of working, the interoperable development of workspaces and greater customer responsibility to occupy less space must ultimately lead to a considerable reduction in the number of square metres occupied. This will result in the termination of leases of leased buildings and the sale of buildings that have become useless for the organisation of a public service. The intention is indeed to reduce the total portfolio by 1.1 million square metres by 2025. The experts from Deloitte presented their study and plan after my intervention in committee. Then we were able to discuss it. I am always ready to come back to this point. Mr Vanden Burre, we have only received on Monday the fairly detailed questions that you have introduced. If you want, we will respond in writing in the coming days. Otherwise, we can wait for the next session to answer in detail, as well as the questions we have just received on the subject. It's as you wish. Either we reply in writing because it will be faster, or I reply orally, in detail, at the next monthly session.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u47	Mr President, let us organize as quickly as possible. The method of the written question seems the right one, since meetings concerning the Régie des Bâtiments are not so frequent. I checked: my questions were sent out last Friday. This is not the most important, given the seriousness of the subject. Minister, you have provided some notable insights into the acquired rights of staff. A great deal of concern is being expressed within the Régie. I hope you know that. This feeling is normal when changes are decided, but you must be able to respond and be aware of them. I do not know to what extent you can answer in writing, but I would like to go back to the multi-year investment plan. That said, it was not presented in committee unless I made a mistake. Is it planned that you would come before a parliamentary committee to explain it to us? Do parliamentarians have access to it? I recall that, according to the press - I do not disclose any secret - it was presented at a real estate seminar on 16 May last. It is remarkable that a real estate fair held in Tour & Taxis was informed before Parliament. I would therefore be interested to receive him and, even more so, to hear you introduce him to us with the managing director of the Régie and/or the author of the plan. One does not, of course, go without the other; a redesign plan is not drawn up without the design of a multi-year investment plan. In order to benefit from a global view, I would therefore like us to discuss it in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u48	Minister, we have heard you, but I do not have the impression that you have answered us. The fundamental question relates to the modernization of the Régie's IT tool, the provision of external expertise, the reform of procedures – in one way or another – allowing for a monitoring of the entire real estate assets. Undoubtedly, findings of deficiency can be formed, even if they may differ from those expressed by Deloitte, whose methodology I contest. I have already indicated this during our work in this committee with the Régie des Bâtiments, during which we examined the audit. A benchmarking has been carried out on the basis of incomparable elements in my opinion. We do not have an answer to all these questions that can be summed up in terms of what can be modernized within the framework of the Régie rather than creating a society governed by public law. Mr President, I hope that this matter will continue to be discussed in the Finance Committee. I believe it is essential not to let the government move forward without Parliament being informed step by step in order to see concretely what could be added value of moving from one structure to another. For the rest, the continuation of social dialogue must be encouraged. I am very afraid that on the part of the organisations representing staff there is more than one form of indignation. I note that the concertation is not working very well and that it is being put before the fait accompli. This dossier must, Mr President, come back to the agenda of our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u49	Minister, the move of the justice of peace from Braine-l'Alleud to a more suitable building than the villa on 92 rue de la Légère Water has been expected for more than 15 years. I have regularly asked you about this. Justice of the peace was to be set up in this place on a provisional basis. There have been a lot of gesticulations in recent months, through the justice of the peace who has been in office for a few months. The firefighters had given negative opinions on the installation of this justice of peace. At the end of January 2018, you said: "With regard to the deadline, the decision of the DG Strategy and Property Management service is expected by March". You also stated that the file would be presented to the Council of Ministers for completion of the first installation, in early 2019, with a move that could take place in mid-2019. I imagine that this file has continued to mature within your administration. Minister, could you please let me know about the decision of the Department of Strategy and Property Management? What motivated this choice? Do you confirm the schedule announced at the end of January? A few days ago, the press reported on the situation in Tubize. This justice of peace is affected by the rationalization of the cantons organized in recent months by the Minister Geens, who wanted to remove it and repatriate part of its powers to that of Braine-l'Alleud. This therefore has an impact on the search for a larger space. According to the press, the municipality of Tubize has taken language with your administration to buy the current building of the justice of peace and to imagine the secondment of a justice of the peace who would maintain the skills ratione loci in this place. In the reform of Minister Geens, it was envisaged to transfer the territorial powers of Braine-le-Château to Braine-l'Alleud. That's why the justice of the peace, Judge Felten, was looking for a more spacious place to accommodate more people. Therefore, Minister, if I may, I would like to add a third question. Will this also influence the choice that you may have already crystallized in recent weeks, if you are aware that the municipality of Tubize is ready to buy the building to maintain the competences of its justice of peace in its municipality, in its canton? Personally, I read it in the press. I have no confirmation from the authorities and that is why I would like to ask you the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u50	Minister, in my turn, I would like to ask you again about the justice of peace in Braine-l'Alleud. I do not repeat the history of my distinguished colleague, Vincent Scourneau. Minister, the last time I asked you about this issue, you already told me a lot of good news. The case seemed on track because you announced a new justice of peace in Braine-l'Alleud for mid-2019. A choice between two buildings for rental was to be made by DG Strategy and Property Management in the course of March. Minister, has the choice of the building that will house the new justice of peace been made? If so, can you tell us more? When will any work be done? Is the timing of mid-2019 for the effective move of this justice of peace in its new premises still up to date?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u51	Colleagues, DG Strategy and Property Management issued a first opinion on 18 March 2018 on the basis of an estimate of the value of the site of the former gendarmerie, the costs of demolition and resale of land as well as the various possible scenarios of leasing. On the basis of additional elements and analyses, DG Strategy and Property Management provided a final opinion on 6 June 2018. Taking into account the needs of the Justice FPS imposing a deadline at the end of 2019 for phase 3 of the plan to rationalise justices of the peace, a lease is the only option that meets the planning requirements. An operation to regroup the judicial cantons on the site of the former gendarmerie is incompatible with the required timing. The current schedule is as follows: - June-July-August 2018: determination of first installation work and negotiation of lease conditions; - September-October 2018: presentation of the rental package to the Inspector of Finance of the Régie des Bâtiments; - November-December 2018: presentation of the dossier to the Council of Ministers; - end of 2018-beginning 2019: finalisation of the specifications for the first installation; - early 2019: publication of contracts for first installation work, decision and request for approval of the investment. Upon receipt of the contract signed by the competent ministers for the Régie des Bâtiments, notification of the award of the works of first installation. The move could be scheduled by the end of 2019. The reasons for the delay in moving to the end of 2019 are the result of a better analysis of the main constraints (content, budget, deadlines) as the project progresses. The first timing estimate in January did not take into account all the components of the project. Additional studies were required to provide a well-documented, relevant and detailed opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u52	Minister, I can hear you. I'm not learning anything here about what you said a few months ago. I wish I knew if you already had the place. Do you already know where you're going to settle? Secondly, will the fresh news I have mentioned possibly upset the scenario? Indeed, if the municipality of Tubize buys the building where the justice of peace is installed, will you keep its activities there?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u53	I'm not aware of that. I need to find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u54	In the press, 48 hours ago, the mayor of Tubize, Mr. Januth, announced in the communal council that he had obtained an agreement with the Régie for the purchase of the building in order to maintain the justice of peace there.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u55	Mr Scourneau, the organisation of justice of the peace falls within the competence of Mr Geens. Anyway, I'm going to check it out, 'cause I don't know. So I'm not going to risk improvising an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u56	Minister, I can hear you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answers. Nevertheless, I must confess that I am somewhat worried about them. The last time you told me that a decision would be made in the course of March. Since then, we have not received any news. At the beginning of June, a decision was still taken. That said, it concerned the former gendarmerie, where – and you said twice – it was impossible to envisage an installation, in view – rightly – of the reform of the justices of peace. We know that the transfer of the Braine-le-Château entity to Braine-l'Alleud could have consequences for 18,000 litigants. It's not annoyance, given the breadth of the service. Again, you provided us with a decision-making schedule. It seems to me that my colleague has asked the right question: has the place already been defined? You're still delimiting the field of needs, but we've had an idea about it a long time ago. Has a final choice been made for a possible rental? We are talking about a building on the avenue of Japan, not very far from the communal administration. Are we going to move on with this? If this is not done yet, timing management will be affected. We will still have an opportunity to discuss it, but I must say that your answers do not reassure me. In addition, a good question to ask is: will it be a temporary rental waiting for something else? Is the gendarmerie definitely forgotten or does it require more work? If I'm not mistaken, this building belongs to the Régie. In the long run, is the aim to carry out additional work on the premises of the former gendarmerie in order to accommodate the justice of the peace? As you have not answered me, I assume we will have the opportunity to return.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u58	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Bogaert (Commission); Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Mr Bogaert; Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gerkens' 24826 is converted into a written question. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mr Degroote's 25034 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u59	Minister, this question includes some of the elements of the question that I asked earlier, so I will simplify it, remove the whole part that concerns expropriations, since you have already answered it, and focus on the other two elements. I would remind you that Masterplan III provides for the reconstruction of the former prison in Verviers with a view to installing a 240-seat prison, which is very good. In view of prison overcrowding throughout Belgium, this is an indispensable project. In addition, some prisons face problems related to the outdated infrastructure. This is the case with Lantin, for example. This was also the case in Verviers, where the prison was closed in 2013 for reasons of security and unsanitaryness. The demolition work was completed in 2017 and only the enclosure wall was retained. The discovery of soil pollution has disrupted the progress of the project and your services have advocated the evacuation of polluted land, which seems quite normal. In February 2018, within the same commission, you announced to me that the market for the removal of polluted land would be published at the end of February and that the budget needed for this work would be specified after the cubing had been determined. More than four months after your announcement, the market has still not been published – to my knowledge – and the budget commitments inherent in this work are also not foreseen. Can you inform me about the progress of the proceedings? Has the initial estimate of €800,000 for evacuation been included in the budget? Still in the Vervieto judicial landscape, I have repeatedly worried about the state of the courthouse. After several years of procrastination, you finally decided to buy spaces in the new T-Palm building located in the immediate vicinity of the courthouse. This purchase concerns the large closed work and the Régie des Bâtiments is responsible for completing the premises on the basis of the needs of the Justice FPS. It is my responsibility that the specifications are ready to be published but that the financial resources are not yet released. Without a budget commitment on your part, the Régie des Bâtiments cannot launch the contract and thus get the work done. My question was tabled on 12 May, perhaps there has been something new since then. Can you also inform me about the availability of financial resources to carry out this work? When do you expect to award the contract and get the work done? When I read these successive events, I am very worried about the future of justice in the Verviers district, and I wonder about your willingness to bring these vital issues to fruition in the functioning of the justice system. Seen from Verviers, I sometimes felt that this territory is abandoned by your services and that there may be a hidden agenda on the part of the government to carry out groupings on a higher scale. I hope I'm wrong and that you will be able to provide the reassuring answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u60	Mr Frédéric, in addition to the information given earlier in this committee on the work project at Verviers prison, I can give you the following. The contract documents are actually ready. However, in order to be able to meet the deadlines to liquidate the emergency construction sites, the land remediation project in Verviers is finally scheduled for 2019. The market will be published in the coming weeks. The expropriation order is ready and follows its path before publication. Following this, the persons concerned will receive a letter from the CAI in September, announcing the compensation provided. After the announcement of the prize, they will have at least six months to leave their property. We are currently trying to ascertain to what extent this deadline should be extended. I am pleased to inform you that the funds have just been released for this case. The contract will be awarded in the coming weeks. The work can start after the building's leave. You asked me if the government had a hidden agenda for the Verviers case. Important work is planned in Verviers. After the construction of the building that we acquired in front of the courthouse, the relocations will free up premises in the existing buildings. The renovation phase of the courthouse has already been established. It will eventually be adapted to the new needs of the Justice FPS, including security.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. My question was double. I see that there are two answers, one good and one bad. Being optimistic, I prefer half-full glass to half-empty glass. I am therefore pleased that the means are being released for the development of the new Justice Building (T Palm Building) but I am very concerned about your response to the issue of land clearance. Following the 2017 work, there was pollution in 2018, and you are telling us that you are delaying the evacuation of the land to 2019. Each time it is a one-year delay before the beginning of the construction of this prison. I imagine that if this work is postponed, you no longer have the means. But you told me four months ago that they were planned and that they were going to be included in the budget. Today, you tell me that this will no longer be possible and that work will begin in 2019. I have a big doubt and I'm very worried.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u62	Minister, last December, the building located 53 Ducale Street was requisitioned to create a security headquarters to house the Government's Coordination and Crisis Centre, the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM), as well as other organizations or bodies specializing in security and crime and, lastly, the offices of the ministers concerned with these and other internal security matters. You announce that these changes are justified in order to meet the requirements of security, accessibility, modernity, continuity and communication. Minister, while I understand the value of bringing all these organizations together in one building, in particular in order to improve cooperation and coordination among them, I would nevertheless like to know a little more. What are the safety benefits of this project? What other organizations can be added to this building? What ministerial offices will be set up in this building? How much at this stage is the amount planned for these operations? How long should this project take?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u63	Mrs Ben Hamou, taking into account the developments around the world and the tragic events of recent years in Belgium, as well as in Europe, our Government has decided to strengthen the specialized security agencies. We're thinking of the Crisis Centre, OCAM, etc. By bringing them together in buildings that are owned by the Belgian State and not in rented buildings, we will be better able to guarantee the security and confidentiality of these security organisations, as well as the data they process. Moreover, the full ownership of these buildings gives us the possibility of securing them, modernising the working environment and all the technical elements that need to be improved. Obviously, as you mention in your question, this also allows us to improve cooperation and coordination among security agencies. In addition, the purchase of the building located at 53 Ducale Street is also a recommendation of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Terrorism. In the fall of 2017 and in the spring of 2018, a number of works were carried out to ensure the security of the building, in which the Crisis Centre is housed. However, no final decision has yet been taken on additional work or relocation of other security services to this building. Finally, the possible accommodation of a ministerial cabinet in this building is not currently on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u64	Thank you for your answers, Minister. However, you did not answer all the questions, including the question about the amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u65	We do not yet have a comprehensive vision of all the services that we are going to bring together. We cannot yet give a budget estimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u66	All right. And an approximate delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u67	Neither.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u68	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-19-54-commissie-ic925x.u69	I thank the Minister for his answers. Colleagues, I believe this was the last session of questions devoted to the Régie des Bâtiments before the holidays. We have many of Mr. Van Overtveldt to be treated. I believe that we will be holding the debate on the Buildings in September.
