ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that you are very much present. This means that you either took the train to get here or left very early to avoid the taxi drivers' blockades. You are present in large numbers, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u2	Mr President, on Saturday I introduced a question to the Prime Minister concerning the privatisation of Belfius. Clearly, his cabinet referred the matter to the Minister of Finance. I can understand that, on the limit, even if I think that this one was specifically addressed to the Prime Minister. What amazes me, however, is that today's agenda includes two questions by Mr Gilkinet on the same subject. I am somewhat surprised: why are the questions on the privatisation of Belfius raised by some colleagues addressed to the Prime Minister, and those raised by others referred to the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u3	Mr Van Hees, my cabinet understood that Mr Gilkinet's question was more about the ARCO dossier, on which I had announced to Parliament that I was responsible for establishing contacts with the European Commission, whereas strictly speaking, the Belfius dossier is mainly in the hands of the Minister of Finance. I am ready, Mr. President, if you wish, to allow Mr. Van Hees joins Mr Gilkinet. I would then give a comprehensive answer on the subject this morning, without preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u4	We'll take that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u5	Mr. President, Prime Minister, like me, you've come by train. You were therefore able to arrive on time, without knowing the problems of bottling in Brussels. My question dates back to December 1, 2017, but it seems to me to have kept its full relevance. Prime Minister, disappointed by the content of various opinions of the Council of State on projects submitted to it, members of the majority – rather than putting the work back on the profession – consider that this high body issues political opinions and tries to discredit it. The reactions included the abolition of meal vouchers, which were discussed by Mr Lachaert of the Open Vld, the tax on securities accounts (reaction by the Finance Minister Van Overtveldt), the exemption from occasional supplementary activities (the famous 500 euros) – again, Mr Lachaert – or the mobility budget, on which almost all members of the majority took part. In a democratic rule of law and with a view to legal certainty and respect for the Constitution, it is important not to undermine the bodies that advise the Government. Therefore, Prime Minister, I expect you to put a little bit of order back on the table, especially since the Council of State, in a recent communication, pointed out the difficulties resulting from the delays imposed on it by the government and a lack of resources to carry out its mission. Mr Prime Minister, do you also consider that the Council of State provides "political" opinions, i.e. partisans? Do you intend, on the contrary, to remind the members of your majority and your government of their criticism of the work and neutrality of the Council of State? What steps will you take – or have you taken – to improve the working relationship between your government and the Council of State, but also to increase the resources available to it? As I recalled, his advice is useful in a democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u6	Mr Gilkinet, as you know, the Council of State has two sections. One of them gives opinions during the parliamentary and legislative process. It seems to me essential that parliamentarians – including the majority, Mr Gilkinet – can exercise their freedom of expression. That is one of the fundamental principles of our Constitution, which must be respected. I consider that the Council of State provides legal advice, which helps to fuel intellectual and democratic debates, particularly in the context of parliamentary work. For the rest, and unless I am mistaken, you will not find a statement from a member of the government that the Council of State would give "political" opinions. I want to bring this nuance, because your question could be interpreted in another direction. I must also admit that I am not very moved by the fact that parliamentarians of the majority or the opposition are making comments in response to the opinions of this body. They are, moreover, an essential moment in the legislative process, as they serve to inform our political reflections so that we conform as much as possible to the principles of national or international law. It happened regularly, especially in December, since that is what you are referring to, that the government adapts, between the first and second readings, the texts that are submitted to Parliament. What's more, it's all well organized. Parliament, at the time when parliamentary documents are transmitted on the initiative of the Government, has the opinion of the Council of State in order to be able to feed into the debate. You're giving me the feeling of an over-extensive outburst. It seems to me that all this is very relative, including the comments made by one or the other Member of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u7	Minister, you're talking about outburst where I use my own freedom of expression. I am attached to it, in my personal capacity, and I respect it for my colleagues. However, I think it has limits. The Council of State has very important advisory powers. On many occasions, he pointed out that government texts were problematic. The government – it is a political judgment – tends to sit on these opinions, despite the appearance of corrections at second reading. More than one member of the majority, either explicitly in the head of parliamentarians, or less precisely – I concede – in the head of ministers, question this institution. This one's important. She doesn't have absolute power. The final power, of course, belongs to Parliament. I wanted to send a signal and give you a concern about what I believe to be a drift in the leadership of the majority. That's what I did. I heard your answer. I take note of this, but I will remain attentive to the relationship between the government and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u8	Mr. President, Prime Minister, this issue dates from January 19. However, it still retains its full interest. The Davos Summit, which brings together senior state, government and business leaders every year, is organized by a private foundation and financed by large multinationals. The aim of this summit, clearly stated in the statutes of the foundation, is to develop collaborations between the public and the private sector. It could be said that Davos is the grandma of great capital, where politicians come to announce the social sacrifices they will make in the name of the dogmas of capitalism. When I put my question, I wanted to ask you if you were going to participate in this summit. We know that in the meantime, you have been there, as you do every year, except when a happy event is holding you back in Belgium. Prime Minister, which employers' or multinational organizations did you meet on this occasion? What budget was committed for the participation of the Belgian delegation? Then I'll update my question a little bit. I found that almost every year, Richard Ambrose, who is one of Lockheed Martin's leaders, is also present in Davos. Did you or a member of the Belgian delegation have any contact with him or with the Lockheed Martin delegation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u9	Mr Van Hees, it is true that in your world there are no more private companies. This is one of the points that differentiate us. I fully assume and indeed claim a presence of the Belgian government and Their Majesties the King and Queen also in Davos to defend the image of Belgium. Beyond his image, it is his economic interests, and therefore investment and employment, that we have defended there. In a few days on the spot – for my part, it was 48 hours – we can meet many political or economic decision-makers, who can make important choices for the social situation, for job creation in our country. I can of course make available to you the details of the agendas and meetings that have been conducted, either by myself or by the various members of the Belgian government delegation. As far as I am concerned, I have had about ten bilateral meetings, most of the time quite brief, with companies like AB Inbev, ArcelorMittal, Prudential, Lloyd's, ENGIE or CPIB. These are companies for which there is an interest in this meeting as these companies are present in Belgium – and I wish to be able to exchange views on the prospects of developing or maintaining activity in Belgium – or are not present in Belgium but might be interested in investments in Belgium and therefore interested in having information on the legal framework and socio-economic framework of our country. I also had political meetings. I met with Prime Minister Netanyahu about an important geopolitical situation, where there are rebounds in the European Union. These bilateral meetings are useful for improving geopolitical understanding of a number of issues. Deputy Prime Minister De Croo and Deputy Prime Minister Peeters were also present. I do not have a list of the meetings they would have had in this context. They had bilateral meetings as well as the opportunity to participate in panels, round tables, with a number of exchanges of views. For the rest, I would like to make available to you in writing all the information on the logistical and financial aspects of this event. As in previous years, this week in Davos, we organised a Belgian event, with about 100 guests present, mainly economic or political actors with a potential link with Belgium. During this reception, I had the opportunity to speak out officially to highlight the structural reforms and the very good socio-economic results of our country in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u10	And on Lockheed Martin, did you meet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u11	In this chamber, there are many opportunities to meet, either programmed or unscheduled. I want to be careful. As far as I am concerned, I have no knowledge of contact of this nature. But it is not impossible that this type of encounter can occur in such a place.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u12	Prime Minister, thank you for these answers, which I am not surprised about. You won't be surprised at my surprise. I note that you meet companies like AB InBev, ArcelorMittal or others that receive many tax gifts from Belgium in the name of employment and which systematically eliminate employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u13	175,000 jobs created!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u14	If we measure your contacts with the jobs lost by these multinationals, the result is quite meagre! For a government that is supposed to defend the general interest, I think you are very focused on the very particular interests of these multinationals. In a lot of cases managed by this government and in a lot of cabinets of ministers of this government, there are dangerous links in terms of armaments, energy lobbies and presence in tax havens. For example, in Minister Reynders' Chief of Staff, there was a co-ownership (public-private) in an offshore company in a tax haven. I think this is not a proper way to defend the general interest, but it confirms that you are the government of the rich and multinationals rather than of the whole population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u15	180,000 jobs created! It's a little different in Cuba, in your own model!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u16	Mr President, Prime Minister, you took part in a three-day official visit to Russia at the end of January and on this occasion you met with the President and Prime Minister of the Russian Federation. This highly supervised and extremely protocolary visit, for those who saw the images, took place even though, on 15 January 2018, Belgian F-16s in charge of protecting the Belgian-Dutch airspace had just intercepted Russian Blackjacks in the North Sea. By the time you landed in Moscow, an opponent of Vladimir Putin, who had not yet been re-elected at the time, Alexey Navalny, was briefly imprisoned, which reminds us of the deplorable state of human rights in that country. Crimea is still under illegal occupation under international law. This is the position of Belgium and the European Union. In addition, the Russian army is still present in large numbers in Syria, where it lends its hand to Bashar al-Assad's bloody regime. In the meantime, since my question dates from January 29, 2018, there was of course the Skripal case with a totally illegal use of chemical weapons prohibited by international treaties and confirmation that cyberattacks have taken place and completely manipulated both the Brexit referendum, the American election and probably the elections in Italy; this is the Cambridge Analytics case. The basis of this manipulation is, of course, the fake news spread by RT, a Russian propaganda organ, and Sputnik. Prime Minister, I come to my many questions. Before you left, you mentioned the "common interests" between our two countries (Belgium-Russia). Could you clarify to me what this implies on the evolution of Belgium's position on the invasion of Crimea, the ongoing cold war in Donbass, the war in Syria and repeated military manoeuvres in northern Europe? Does Belgium intend to start the same process of warming its diplomatic relations with the Syrian regime that is very close to Vladimir Putin? Will Belgium plead for the end of the current European economic embargo on Russia? Could you elaborate on how you have dealt with the human rights situation, in general, and in the areas currently occupied by the Russian army, in particular, with your interlocutors, both with the President and with the Prime Minister? Which associations of human rights defenders did you meet during your visit? Your visit took place at the end of January, when a working visit by the Foreign Minister to Moscow was already planned on 13 and 14 February 2018, just one month after your visit. What is the political meaning of this dual diplomatic fervour? Mr. Reynders couldn't come with you in January. What were the terms of reference for both your official visit and Mr Reynders' subsequent working visit? In this very tense international context, do you not consider yourself disproportionate the risks – I weigh my words – that you have made our country take out this regime from the relative diplomatic isolation in which the questionable actions on the internal scene – that is to say the least – and externally plunged it. Do you not simply fear a manipulation of which Vladimir Putin is an undisputed global expert? Finally, it is information that we learned yesterday: a number of countries, of course Britain, but also Germany, France, Denmark, Italy and the Netherlands, which are not the least of our allies, decided to expel Russian diplomats following the Skripal case. What are you going to decide in Kern about the possible expulsion of Russian diplomats from Belgian territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u17	Thank you, Mr Hellings, for an extremely nuanced question. It's a nuance that impresses me a lot. With regard to the last part of the question, it was the subject of another question. Mr President, I do not know whether you want me to answer now and join the subjects or whether I am content to reply as intended to the parliamentarians who formally asked the question earlier. I am responding to the various points that you have raised. First, for clarity, because there have been absolutely senseless statements in the press on the subject, the principle of this visit to Moscow dates back to the summer of 2017. I met Foreign Minister Lavrov in Brussels. It was at that time that the principle of visitation was determined. This is how the date was set, according to the respective calendars, at the beginning of the year. This is not a protocol visit. I'm not a protocol prime minister, Mr. Hellings. It was a working visit of an official nature and with the ambition to address all the different subjects in the relations between Belgium and Russia but also in the relations between the European Union and Russia. I have already had the opportunity to say so several times publicly but also in my meetings with my political interlocutors, the Prime Minister and the President, we affirm Belgium's total solidarity within the framework of the European Union in connection with the sanctions following the illegal annexation of Crimea. There was no taboo subject. We have had the opportunity to talk about everything, including interference, destabilization initiatives, and the use of cyber-threats to destabilize certain democracies, not only at the borders between Europe and Russia, but also in more remote areas. Issues such as the destabilization of democratic processes in France, the United States or Britain during the Brexit were the subject of our discussions, which were long, thorough and without any taboo. The issues of human rights and our conceptions of democracy and the rule of law, freedom of expression, protection of minorities, which I am passionately defending, have been addressed. It seemed to me very important to take time, in this very tight programme, to meet at length with representatives of civil society and opposition movements, and independent journalists, in order to have a very broad view of the situation in Russia. On this and other international issues, my view is fundamentally different from yours. You give me the impression that a representative of a government could only speak with countries that have exactly the same interpretation of democracy, the rule of law and human rights as ours. If we were to follow this reasoning, we would not speak to many people, nor could we defend our convictions, nor advance the values and ideas that we defend. I therefore believe that it is necessary to be firm. We are, in the context of sanctions, in solidarity with those that are decided. But, unlike you, I do not consider sanctions to be an end in themselves. They are an instrument for expressing pressure, which I believe must be accompanied by a process of dialogue. We are talking with many world leaders who are not members of the European Union, and who do not have exactly the same reasoning as we do in terms of democratic values and the rule of law. Forever, Russia will be a great neighbour of the European Union. Forever, therefore, it will have potentially converging or diverging economic, political and strategic points of interest with ours. I repeat: we have at least two types of questions to discuss with Russia. This is on the one hand the question of security and stability at the eastern borders of Europe. Our F-16s are present for the monitoring of air space in the Baltic Sea, as you know, so that we can be loyal partners of NATO. Specific points were also raised. These are, for example, transponders of fighter aircraft. It is necessary to encourage our neighbours to activate these transponders, as we activate ours, in order to reduce the risks in the missions carried out. To deliver this kind of message, a dialogue must be made possible. Secondly, we have another concern, as you mentioned, it is the situation in southern Europe, where Russia is one of the actors – it is not the only one – that has an influence, sometimes negative. We must be able to talk about this too. This is not just about Syria. My attention is also drawn to the situation in Libya. It is a large territory on the southern borders of Europe, totally destabilised today. If we want to ensure a stabilization process in Libya, which is my wish, we need to have a dialogue with those who have influence in the region. It's not just Russia. Other well-known countries also have an influence on these issues. Mr Hellings, I will always have a great deal of difference of opinion with you. You think that I should speak as Prime Minister only to countries that have exactly the same heritage, the same interpretation of democracy and human rights. I believe that as head of government I must also speak with countries whose values I do not share, precisely to defend our values, to defend our convictions and to support, in the countries concerned, positive forces for the dissemination of the values of freedom of expression, freedom of the press, democracy and the rule of law. There was also an economic component in trade that was undertaken, albeit limited, given the sanctions, as they reduce the capacity for economic exchange in a number of sectors. For the sake of clarity, my mission had a political, geopolitical and economic framework. And then, there was indeed, also planned for several months, a planned mission of Minister Reynders, more focused on economic relations, but political issues were also discussed between Minister Reynders and his counterpart, Mr Lavrov.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u18	Prime Minister, first of all, I will answer you on the substance. You did not reply to me about the concrete progress that this visit has made. You went to Moscow. Why? To get what? What concrete progress have you achieved, both economically and geopolitically? Nothing. You went to Moscow for apples!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u19	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u20	At what level? The level of the visit. What did you get, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u21	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u22	In this case, your answer does not mean anything because you have not obtained anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u23	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u24	It is also your choice not to answer, Prime Minister. You didn't get anything on your way to Moscow; on the other hand, you put back in the saddle a leader who, since your visit, has amplified his cyberattacks – in the case of Italy – and who, in Syria, continues to support a regime that massacres civilians in Ghouta. So your visit was of no use! Not only was your visit inappropriate, it was a political mistake. What a gap between you two months ago, Putin's hand and our main allies, France, Germany and Great Britain, who are now expelling Russian diplomats! What a ditch! What a political mistake! You have been blinded by the gold and fascists of the Kremlin and this, to get nothing. Today, Iceland announced that no Icelandic officials would participate in the World Cup. We have tabled an Ecolo-Groen resolution on these benches. It aims to ensure that, not to participate as an official in the World Cup because I think the Red Devils have the right to participate in this sporting event, but not to participate in this great political manipulation game of which Vladimir Putin is an expert. I encourage you to use your language with the human rights associations you have not mentioned. When you go or your ministers go to Russia to support the Red Devils, come with these human rights defenders to the stadiums and have them meet the Russian officials that you will inevitably encounter behind the scenes. It is an original way to counter Russia's propaganda exercise that the World Cup will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u25	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am aware that integrating myself into the programme between the F-16s and the situation in Russia may seem derisory, but this is not the case because a number of parliamentarians, of whom I was a member, as well as President Vermeulen have worked for several months on political renewal. I know that this issue is coming back on a cyclical basis, but I think we have reached a number of important agreements. As evidence, a few weeks ago, we adopted the obligation to publish the public and private revenues of all agents. The text is now in the Senate. This is a good step forward, as is the case in the European Parliament. But there is another recommendation, Recommendation No. 11, not to hide anything from you. It specifies the implementation of a recommendation which establishes a register of lobbies. The text is tabled here in Parliament to amend the Rules of Procedure of this House. This register is also made public via the Internet. Anyone who represents a lobby of any kind and who comes to meet a parliamentarian is obliged to declare it, to make a public statement thereof. We consider, in the debates we have had in the Political Renewal Committee, that, while this is important for Parliament, it is just as important for the government. So, Prime Minister, the question is whether, like what we are doing in the House, you will quickly take an initiative to create a register of lobbyism at the federal government level. If so, within what time frame and in what manner?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u26	Mr President, Mr Frédéric, first of all, I would like to join you in welcoming the work which has been carried out by Parliament in an intense manner in the committee responsible for this issue, which has given rise to 66 recommendations, if I am well informed, including the 11th one you mention. I am also pleased that, as a result of this work, progress has been made through legislative proposals that reinforce transparency obligations in terms of mandates. With regard to the register of lobbies, I have already spoken on the subject in plenary session in June 2017 and I have not changed my opinion on the subject. I try to express myself with the necessary nuance on this subject. First of all, I think that, while the idea itself can be welcomed and considered interesting, it faces some difficulties and constraints that I want to share with you. First, it may happen for a government that discreet contacts are needed in order to encourage investment choices in Belgium. I have had this experience a few times: it has happened for groups like Audi, ABInBev for example, that contacts prior to strategic decisions are undertaken. If these contacts were to be communicated before a decision was taken by these companies, it might hinder Belgium's attractiveness for investment choices. We must therefore see how this dimension can be taken into account, which may be the subject of innovative solutions. In any case, it is a constraint that must be taken into account. Secondly, you know this because your political formation has been involved in governments for many years: there are executives at the federal level but also in the federated entities. You know that in a ministerial cabinet there is a volume of contacts with the outside world, and fortunately, with the business world, including Mr. Van Hees hates it. The private sector, you realize! Therefore, in order to have a good understanding, good knowledge, good information, consultations may be necessary. The question of volume is also an element that can be a constraint or a difficulty. Thirdly, it would mean moving towards a definition. Other parliaments, such as the European Parliament, have done so. There is a need for legal definition of interest groups, lobbying. It's not easy. I would also like to remind you that, following this parliamentary sitting, I indicated to the House in a letter that the government was ready to cooperate with Parliament on this matter. I had even said that I was prepared to ask the chancellery for a comparative legal study in order to have more objective and illuminating information on the situations and frameworks that would exist in other countries facing the same constraints, so that we could examine how these constraints have been integrated: either in a legal framework or in other types of regulations encouraging good practice in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u27	I thank the Prime Minister for his response. I am not unaware that there are constraints, contacts, that there are companies that are taking steps towards ministerial offices. I have worked there myself for years, so I am well informed of all this. What I think is that there must be a balance between total anonymity and pure lobbying, the limits of which are sometimes seen on a daily basis in certain matters, and not at least in the same committee. It would be a great honour for you to take the initiative to ask the chancellery for a comparative legal study to know, for example, how the European Parliament works in this field. This would be a way to tune your violins with the desire for transparency expressed by Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 23383 is hereby withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, my question is dated February 1. You will understand that I have somewhat updated it. You're not mad at me?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u30	No, really not.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u31	By the end of last year, I asked you about replacing the F-16s. You then told us that the procedure would end on Valentine's Day. It is the bells that, with a little advance, brought us two reports which, contrary to what we were told in the Defence Committee for months, indicate to us the possibility of an extension of the F-16s. For months, many of my colleagues and I have been constantly questioning the Minister of Defence, because we have been asking ourselves many questions about this market, both in substance and in form. Moreover, we had asked for hearings on numerous occasions – including members of the SPF Economy – but they were systematically refused to us. When we read both reports, we realize that we could save billions of euros. In committee, your Minister of Defence spoke of "serious misappreciation". I would therefore like to know how you feel about these two reports, which indicate a possible extension of the F-16s. In view of the options involved, the government has always clinged to its position of replacing these devices. Why didn't you ever consider maintaining them? Similarly, why did you never ask for this report, when it could have saved us billions of euros. Moreover, we now know that Portugal is moving towards maintaining its aircraft. Why would it be impossible for ours? Can you, Prime Minister, certify that no member of the government was aware of the reports in question? How do you react to the Defence's concealment of such important information? Last Thursday, in plenary, you said that the procedure would be pending until full clarity was achieved. We can only greet him. Does this suspension, or this judgment, or this reflection on the file put on the table the partnership with France, which seemed to be ruled out by the Minister of Defence? Meanwhile, since Thursday, we have also learned from the press that there have been questions, but also hidden information on the drone market. The press has announced that this market is suspended. Can you tell us more and tell us if the drone market is suspended? You will allow me to broaden my question, since, in the Defence Committee, we also asked the minister, particularly about the Camo project – I asked you, but it was postponed. Have any other defence contracts been suspended? If so, which ones? Why? Finally, on Tuesday, at the committee, we realized that we had a Minister of Defence who no longer held his troops. It's kind of boring for a minister who runs the army. Our feeling is that he and his team showed great amateurism in a project which, I would remind you, committed Belgium for several decades for several billions. Therefore, my last question, Prime Minister, is: Do you maintain your confidence in the Minister of Defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have two questions. I'll put them down together. There is a recent question and another older one, dating back to February. It is interesting to note that in February already, I asked you about the guarantees that we could have against political and economic pressure on this issue of replacing the F-16s. The latest events have made me right. You repeated last Thursday, in plenary, Minister Vandeput's now classic slogan on "the government's choice for a transparent procedure". Since the beginning, we have been challenging this vision. The facts revealed last week tend to confirm our thesis. It is shown that interventions have taken place at the top of the state and army to influence the procedure. [[The situation is very serious.]] Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence spoke last week in committee about a "heavy error of judgment" regarding the non-transmission of reports. As for you, you did not say anything in plenary last Thursday about this, except that the situation was difficult. Is this, in your opinion, an error of judgment, as the minister says, or a serious mistake aimed at influencing an essential dossier, committing billions of euros? The government's 2015 study of the extension of F-16s raises doubts. What conclusions have you drawn from this study with respect to what we are dealing with today? Why was it not communicated? I have requested that this report be made available to the Secretariat of the Defence Committee. I got two reports from Lockheed Martin, but not this one. On 31 May 2016, Mr Vandeput had answered a question from the N-VA Chair of the Defence Committee by saying: "There is no study by the manufacturer planned on extending the life of F-16s beyond 8,000 flying hours." At that time, was neither he nor anyone in his office aware of Lockheed Martin's intention to study this issue? More specifically, can you guarantee that Claude Van de Voorde, the minister's former chief of staff and former head of the Air Component, was not aware and did not attend any meetings where this fact was mentioned? In view of the lack of transparency in the present procedure, questions also arise concerning the purchase of drones. The minister stated that only the U.S. model met the criteria and could be used. This version is now being challenged. Can you say that there has been no lobbying of the US military-industrial complex in relation to this case, and that the top of the army and the cabinet have not intervened here either to influence the decision? The Minister of Defence is tangled up and continues to advance false information, such as about the age of the F-16s. He repeated in committee that they were 40 years old when the vast majority of aircraft were not even 30 years old, in order to influence the debate and convince us that in all cases new fighter planes should be bought. My question is simple: is he speaking, yes or no, on behalf of the whole government? Can you now say what the actual cost of extending the life of the F-16s would be? I am quite surprised at the government's lack of reaction to the Deputy Deputy Chief of Staff of the Minister of Defence, who went to Lockheed Martin. This refers to our discussions on the links between government or cabinet members and multinationals. Do you find it normal for one of the highest officials in a cabinet of ministers to go to the service of an arms multinational, and that, moreover, in the middle of the negotiation process for what is described as the contract of the century? It appears that Mr. Put had a relationship with Lockheed Martin when he was in office. What is the nature of these relationships? Finally, the Minister of Defence says that he sees no reason to terminate the procedure for replacing fighter aircraft. Do you share this vision, Prime Minister, or do you see one or the other reason – I think the reasons for this today are not lacking – to consider putting an end to this replacement procedure? I am also thinking of the fact that the government made a decision in March 2017 to launch the procurement process that took place when information was not known at that time or that, in any case, it is claimed that it was not known to the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, to be quite precise, the RfGP procedure did indeed provide for the submission of offers by state agencies in the course of February. However, these offers were still to be analysed in the following weeks, so that, regardless of the information provided last week, it was expected that a report on this matter would be submitted to the Government at the earliest in May or June. It was therefore not possible for the government to take an attitude on this issue before the month of May or June. I wanted to clarify the comment before your question. Some elements on this subject. As I said in plenary and I repeat here, this government, in its agreement, has made the choice of reinvesting in Defence. It has been decades since, generally speaking, in Europe and Belgium too, there were systematic savings on the back of Defence, probably due to a geopolitical environment following the Cold War. However, in recent years, this geopolitical environment has changed considerably. The situation in Russia was mentioned, as well as other countries in southern Europe that have destabilizing and hostile behaviour. If we want to have a diplomatic and geopolitical weight in Belgium, Europe and Europe within NATO with the European Union, I think the government believes that it is necessary to stop these systematic economies on the back of Defence. Moreover, we have confirmed this approach in the context of budgetary work. The budgetary adjustment came this Friday. Formal documents will be forwarded to Parliament. You will see that we have been careful to honour this commitment, namely to stop savings against GDP in defence. This implies that Defence reinvestment and modernization programs are being launched. With regard to air capacity – as I have also said in plenary, and I repeat – at the end of 2015, on the basis of a study transmitted last week to parliamentarians, we became aware of the various possible scenarios in terms of air capacity, if we want to maintain a number of standards. At the end of 2015, we took on the principle of launching about ten programmes, including one in the area of air capacity. It was in March 2017 that the Council of Ministers formally approved the starting point for a formal procedure: the RfGP. It was a very clear choice to allow a competition, a competition via state agencies. At a later stage – this has given rise to sometimes lively debates with Parliament – only two state agencies submitted offers in February under this procedure. Other agencies, which could have done so, chose not to participate in the RfGP procedure. Last week, we read about Lockheed Martin's studies. I believe that the government's response is of common sense, given the enormous financial and strategic challenges. The Board considers that an audit is essential. I do not intend to comment on the consequences or conclusions of this internal and external audit before I know them. These should be available before 18 April 2018, the date of a next committee meeting on the subject, and Parliament will be aware of this. This audit will, I hope, clarify the decision-making process, the deliberative process: who has what information and when? I do not intend at this stage, while an audit is under way, to comment on information that may be partial, correct or not that is circulating on the subject. I intend to wait for the results of the audit and it is only after we have, I hope, a clearer vision on the issue of the decision-making process. Fernandez Fernandez, next to the decision-making process, there is an important question, it is the substantive question. I spoke on this subject in plenary session. There will be no decision on this until full clarity is given on the decision-making process, but also on the options that need to be considered in advance. I have also indicated that I would like Parliament to be regularly involved in this process and to be informed of it. This is the meaning of the committee meeting on 18 April, which will take place as soon as the audit is available. The method seems to me quite logical. With regard to drones, no decision has been taken in the Council of Ministers or in Kern. The point was raised by the latter a few weeks ago – as I say – but I considered that the file required some clarification and additional information. At this stage, we have found that it is not ripe to be the subject of a formal proposal in the Council of Ministers. Finally, Mr. Van Hees, you asked me about the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Minister of Defence. According to the information available to me, he was involved in a selection procedure. When the minister became aware of this, he immediately made the decision to resign his assistant chief of staff and to request an audit of his contacts with the company in question, given the sensitivity of the subject you are referring to. It seems to me that the minister has had an opportunity to report to Parliament on the results of this investigation. This is obviously a sensitive issue, given the importance of the issue. For my part, whether on this or on other topics, I do not intend to show populism and demagogy. Basically, it is important that the decision-making processes be clear. Similarly, the army must properly and faithfully inform the government and Parliament. Democracy demands it, it's obvious. I still believe that it is necessary to invest in the modernization of defence; not to wage war, but rather to find ourselves in a position to weigh diplomatically and geopolitically and to be a loyal partner within the European Union and NATO, with a view to developing a European pillar within it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u34	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I agree with you as far as your introduction is concerned. Maybe I wasn't precise enough. I share with you the fact that in a democracy it is essential for information to function in structures such as Defence, Government and Parliament. In a democracy, it is also essential that whistleblowers be protected. Parliament voted on a text to that effect. I hope that you share this feeling and that you will reiterate this commitment. You will understand that when you are a democrat and you hear statements from some of your majority partners about these whistleblowers, that may cause us concern. In your responses, I mean that we are waiting for a "intermediate" report on April 16 or 8 according to your Minister of Defence. You mentioned a "report." It's not exactly the same thing. The Socialist Group would have liked to see parallel hearings of defence officials. We had the political version last week with the Minister of Defence. Audits are carried out and we want them to be carried out in good conditions. We are aware that this will take some time because the file is complex. For us, it was not impossible to have the Defence version in parallel with this audit. I can only regret it because it was the choice of the majority. We remain convinced that if the majority had supported the Socialist proposal in the F-16 dossier so that there would be an opinion of the Court of Auditors on the budgetary impact of such a market, we might not be there! If our requests for hearings had been accepted, perhaps we would not be here either. Those are regrets. We ask that a flattening be made for other significant Defence issues. I am thinking of the Camo case, for which the procedure is asking. If you have no doubt and you have nothing to fear, I plead that in this case – and in others! – there is not a suspension but a flattening and a review. On the merits, one can question the choice of procedures. Other colleagues have insisted on this in plenary and I think they have been right. Of course, there is no point in telling you that we will remain very attentive to these Defence matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u35	Prime Minister, you repeat that the audit is going to be conducted; I take note of it. We did not get many answers, as they are conditional on the outcome of this audit. As far as the case of the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Minister of Defence is concerned, you present this as if the minister had dismissed his collaborator. Licencing someone who has gone to work in a multinational, it's not firing, it's making the observation of his departure. The fact that he is leaving for the main candidate to replace the F-16 raises the question. This refers us to the Davos issue and to the many conflicts of interest that exist in the cabinets of this government. I think your government has been breaking the historic record since the Second World War, in terms of conflicts of interest. You also tell us that in March 2017, two aircraft were retained. When I hear you say that the government has decided on a procedure in which only two aircraft were competing, I wonder why your Foreign Minister considers that the Rafale would still be in the race. There is obviously a Lockheed Martin lobby, but there is also a Dassault lobby in this government. Finally, fundamental strategic difference: when you say that this government has made the choice to reinvest in Defence, I do not agree with you. There is actually a choice of this government to reinvest in the attack. Indeed, if it was just to defend our territory, we could very well continue with the F-16s. But there is a NATO policy of interventionism in which this government participates, which pushes for war interventions around the world, with catastrophic results. The more you intervene, the more problems you have; and the more problems you have, the more you intervene. I think this is a very adventurous and dangerous policy for peace in the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u36	Prime Minister, there has been a great deal of controversy over the bill that took over the authorization of what he calls modest house visits. I would like to have some insight into the current state of preparation of this bill. You met the representatives of the French-speaking, Dutch-speaking and German-speaking bar associations – this is the only meeting that has been publicized. Their spokespersons, the presidents of the conferences of the bar associations, strongly recalled that if the government persisted, I quote: "Contrary to what we want, to move the project forward, we would demand that the migrants be assisted by a lawyer and that the investigating judge have room for manoeuvre as regards the determination of the police mission and the extent of the home visit which is, in fact, a search". They also recalled that, I quote: "This project is unconstitutional. It violates two non-negotiable principles, the inviolability of the home and the right to privacy, on which we will not compromise." Several other prominent lawyers have spoken out to challenge this bill and its constitutional basis. I asked you in plenary, by way of a topical question, on February 1, 2018, about the legally disputable aspects of this bill and its political consequences that are eminently offensive to the fundamental principles of our democracy. You replied that you would take a little time for consultation, in order to better understand the delicate nature of the legal principles and the principles of the rule of law at stake. You went on to say, "On that basis, I want to be able to assume my responsibilities and report not only to the government but also to Parliament." Since then, the challenge has not weakened. Nearly 100 municipalities have passed a motion to oppose this bill by their people, with majorities in some cases reproducing your party's elected representatives. It's quite estimable. Prime Minister, what stakeholders or experts have you consulted on this bill? Are further consultations still planned? Do you have a state of mind today to adapt this bill and make it more consistent with a number of constitutional principles? Do you still feel that it is the investigating judge who must intervene in this procedure? Is there still a need to justify, even though this seems disproportionate to many observers, that there may be searches of third-party hosting companies? Is there a time limit within which to submit to Parliament any adaptations, substantial amendments to the contested bill? If you retain any amendments, will you give the Council of State the opportunity to give its opinion within a reasonable period of time? One of the weaknesses of the review of the previous bill was that the Council of State had had too short a time to conduct a thorough review.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u37	Prime Minister, it has been two months since you decided to take up this matter at your level. Let us recall that Mr Franken's bill actually proposes a measure that appears today to be counterproductive and ineffective. As we have just pointed out, this is an unconstitutional measure. It flouts a number of democratic principles of our Constitution: the principle of respect for privacy and the principle of the inviolability of the home. All relevant actors, lawyers, judges, associations working in the field and citizens have reacted very strongly to this project. You have therefore decided to suspend the course of this project and to organise what you have called a " attentive listening" of the actors concerned. Today, two months have passed. But the concern remains, since many Belgian citizens continue to receive refugees who have been delivered to themselves and to whom the state services, which you are leading with Mr Franken, do not provide the right answers. Prime Minister, where are you in this " attentive listening", this consultation that you have wanted to organise with the actors on the ground, civil society, local authorities? What meetings have you ever had? As you know, we have asked, and that is the demand of most of the actors working in the field, the withdrawal of the project. Which option will you prefer?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u38	Prime Minister, with regard to these ill-appointed house visits, which are actually searches, I would like to mention three elements. You spoke with a little lightness in relation to reality at the plenary meeting on 1 February. You made the difference between the individuals who applied for asylum and the others, saying that the current issue and the bill in question were those who had applied and were allegedly dismissed by the Foreigners' Office. This is incorrect because a number of people who do not apply for asylum have also been ordered to leave the territory. This was confirmed during the hearings by different actors. These people may also be the target of your measurements. This is my first rectification. I would like to make a second correction to your remarks. The examining magistrates did not make any "remarks", according to the term you used. They expressed a fundamental disagreement with your text, referring in particular to Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. They pointed to the disproportion between the means used, recalling the violence of a search in relation to the objective of applying an administrative measure. They pointed to the problem of the lack of an investigation, the press-button role you want them to play and the fact that it leads "to disguised searches". Their note was very clear on this, as were their statements at the hearings. I now come to my third correction of your proposals. Hosters, if they are not at risk of criminal prosecution – it's still happy! – run a risk with this project, contrary to what you said. It is that of being subjected to searches, the traumatic dimension of which has been extensively and strongly recalled by all actors on the ground, including investigating judges, lawyers and the police. We heard them here, in one of the nearby rooms. In this sense, we are very concerned that we did not hear an announcement that this measure had been abandoned and that, on the contrary, we heard several prominent members of your party confirm that they intended to move forward with this bill. Prime Minister, who did you meet during your consultations? What was the content of the trade? What conclusions do you draw? And above all, are you going to abandon this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u39	Mr President, allow me first of all a few retroacts because the situation has not been very audible in the last few weeks. The starting point of this government initiative is the observation, notably through the work and parliamentary questions addressed to the ministers in charge of the interior or justice, that there would be gaps in the legal framework in relation to the conditions under which, in a number of situations, the police could intervene to take steps in homes or residences housing persons in an irregular situation. This is the starting point and the framework in which this debate started. It is important to remind him. Secondly, I confirm word for word what I said in plenary on the subject and Mr Maingain was kind, as often, to quote me. I did indeed consider that, clearly, the intention of the Government, namely to provide a legal and stable framework which, moreover, implemented the possibility of a role for the investigating judge, had generated a significant number of reactions and comments on the question of the rule of law, the role of the institutions and the Constitution. That is why I have indeed wanted to start a process of careful and active consultations. This process has begun in recent weeks. I do not intend, at this stage, to report until I close this process of consultations. I will probably have more types of exchanges in the next few days on the subject. I have already had the opportunity to meet with associations that defend the interests of either refugee candidates or irregular residents. I have met many lawyers, actors in the judicial chain, the security chain and the bar associations, as has been mentioned. A number of these actors have given me opinions, comments and reflections on the subject. It is only at the end of this process, and not before, that I will report to the government and Parliament. I do not intend to provide partial comments on the matter. I want to be able to present a complete, comprehensive reasoning when the time comes. I had also indicated that I did not intend to lock myself in a schedule, in a timing on this subject. That remains true.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u40	Prime Minister, I understand that you are holding meetings today with all the actors involved, the associations that work with foreigners, judges, lawyers and that you do not want to give a principle, an option that you prefer. This is proof that the subject is difficult. This is a particularly complex subject and I think it is important to take the time to do the right analysis. But I would still like to remind you of a number of elements that are cardinal. The investigating judges do not consider these to be house visits. They're clearly talking about searches. However, as soon as you talk about searches, you are in the Criminal Code and this is the way for the criminalization of foreigners. Therefore, Prime Minister, I really ask you to be attentive to the choice you are going to make, since these are important democratic principles for the whole population. We are questioning privacy here. We are ready to question respect for the inviolability of the home. More than 130 municipalities across our country have voted on motions. Even elected members of the MR voted on a motion asking the government to reconsider these options, this policy. The PS group will be vigilant and will, of course, continue to follow the file closely. We await the conclusions of your work. I would like to ask you an additional question. When do you intend to land in this file that attracts the attention of many people? Tens of thousands of citizens continue to welcome foreigners and feel in danger today. The message you are going to send today is important to the entire population.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u41	Prime Minister, caution is good advice. Personally, I'm not looking forward to your success. If you could bury the project, it would be even better because I think it is so legally critical that appeals to the Constitutional Court were certain on the basis of the text that was submitted to us and that the censorship of the Constitutional Court would probably have been insane. Don't rush! You could get a bad result if you rush. Take all the necessary legal consultations before returning with a text. I believe that this project has probably crystallized the most fundamental criticism of your government's migration control policy because it is exorbitant. It is beyond all the constitutional principles that we have always defended, beyond the relations of majority-opposition power. This is a test for your ability to withstand N-VA ultras. We will check in the coming weeks if you own it and wait for the outcome of your consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u42	Prime Minister, on such a difficult subject, it can be understood that you consider it necessary to take time, to commission the matter, to establish contacts and to develop reflections. Nevertheless, you are well aware of the number of files for which you apply the same method. We talked about the F-16s earlier and will talk about ARCO later. Therefore, I hope you're doing well. In substance, you are telling us that it was only a matter of filling a legal vacuum. In my view, this gap was above all a pretext for criminalizing the momentum of solidarity in favour of the undocumented. From the moment we explicitly target the people who are hosting them, it is clear that we are facing a policy of criminalization. Several colleagues have listed the communes in which motions against this project are voted. You've met with the actors involved. You didn't tell us what they told you, but it must have been crazy about the bill. Moreover, this text has given rise to similar reactions in your party, where there are also, of course, ultras who want to surf the wave of racism. In the end, we find that, in this case, as in others, the N-VA runs behind the Vlaams Belang. The question is whether you and your party are going to get dragged into this race.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeulen has converted 23581 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 23604 is also converted into a written question. It will not be possible to complete the entire agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u44	Mr President, let us ask as many questions as possible, even if the answers are rather unsatisfactory at this stage – if I hear those that have been brought to committee. Prime Minister, I was going to ask you about the ARCO file, but you're not going to disappoint me, since you're going to answer me about Belfius' potential stock market entry. These two sensitive issues are linked. That's why they were entrusted to you, like others. Maybe they'll come out at some point in the fridge. A timetable was set by the government on February 2. On 26 January, when we interviewed Commissioner Vestager in the European Affairs Monitoring Committee, she told us that she had not been contacted by the Belgian Government in this matter. However, we know that a solution to the ARCO problem requires a European agreement, given the risk of illegal state aid. It is also stated that Belfius has released 400 million which could be used to compensate ARCO co-operators. This is a prerequisite for taking stock, although we consider it, Prime Minister, to be a strategic and budgetary error. Rather, we believe that it would be appropriate for a public bank to take place in our financial sector. It would be controlled by the public authorities and could invest in local authorities, SMEs and the ecological transition of our economy – like what is happening in Germany, for example. Prime Minister, I wanted to take stock of the government's real motivations on this issue and the screenings that have been conducted. Then, what is the status of the case? What about your informal or official contacts with the European Commission? What did she think of the scenarios that were presented to her? What would be the importance of compensation for ARCO co-operators? Similarly, what compensation would be provided for the towns and municipalities which, as a result of the bankruptcy of the communal holding company, have lost money? Is the government ready to change course and consider that there is an opportunity to keep Belfius in the public arena? We can always change our minds, Prime Minister. When one has been wrong, it can even be a sign of intelligence – of political intelligence, can be understood.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u45	The Prime Minister agreed that Mr. Van Hees joins your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u46	Prime Minister, just now you have expressed your commitment to, and even your love for, large private companies. I would like to talk to you about a public company in the banking field. In the 19th century, a liberal, not especially progressive, Walthère Frère-Orban, created several public credit institutions: the CGER, the Crédit Communal, the National Bank. The latter still exists. The other two worked smoothly for more than a hundred years under public status. Then it took only ten years after their privatisation to sink and cause terrible damage to the Belgian economy and public finances. Are we going to repeat this mistake with Belfius's stock exchange? It was already the Crédit Communal's entry into the stock market that led to his loss. In view of the arguments of the 'public bank lovers', I would like to put to you these various points showing the advantages of a public credit company. First advantage: a truly public bank, without being in deficit, is not obsessed with profit hunting, a source of high-risk practices, as demonstrated by the 2008 financial crisis. Putting a bank on the stock exchange means engaging it in this race to the maximum profit. Today, banks' returns rise to 10% in Belgium, twice the euro area (and a thousand times as much as the interest granted by these banks, but this is another problem). [[It's like you didn't learn any lessons from the 2008 crisis.]] When's the next crisis? Second advantage: a truly public bank is at the service of its customers. It can provide the public with access to local banking services, to available staff, at reasonable rates, to a lending policy that avoids both too much restrictions and too easy credit leading to over-indebtedness. Third advantage: a truly public bank serves the country's economic and social well-functioning. It can, while remaining cautious, offer loans to SMEs that are now struggling to find financing. It can also pursue a coherent and sound policy of financing the public authorities without, for example, trapping local authorities as Dexia has been able to do in order to maximize its profits. Fourth advantage: a truly public bank can guarantee an ethical policy, avoiding tax fraud and questionable financing, such as in the arms industry and in multinational corporations that do not respect the environment or human rights. Fifth advantage: a truly public bank can respect its staff and employment, which is far from the case in the Belgian financial sector, as demonstrated again by the brutal restructuring plan at ING or the "unit" remuneration policy at BNP Paribas Fortis. Sixth advantage: a truly public bank can be managed in a democratic way, with public authorities combining staff and customer representatives to define strategic policy and control management, so that the institution is truly at the service of the community. That is a series of advantages on which I would like to have your opinion, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the government agreement clearly reflected the government's ambition to have a more dynamic management of state participation, including in the financial field. In fact, we had a lively debate as soon as the government formed on all the points that made up this government agreement; on that point too. With regard to the particular case of Belfius, it is true that there are points of comparison with other operations which have already been carried out. I am thinking of the transaction that covered part of the participation in BNP Paribas. The opening up of the shareholding can generate different benefits, both for the company, for the public authority, but also for the taxpayers who were involved in helping save the financial sector a few years ago. The management and the board of directors of Belfius have carried out a number of reflections and have prepared a process that could lead to the launch of an IPO-type procedure. The intentions are quite clear. We hope that the bank will be able to deploy its business in a solid way in the future, that there will be independence as part of the strategy it must deploy in terms of growth. And we must ensure that a Belgian anchor and a public anchor of the institution are maintained. This is why, contrary to the simplicity and shortcuts I heard in the introduction, the mandate given last summer by the government covers a maximum of 49% of Belfius' shares. It is therefore not a pure and simple sale of the bank, as it has been implied or expressed by one or the other today or in recent weeks. There will therefore be no loss of control by the Belgian Government over Belfius in the short or medium term. Of course, Belfius must be involved in this operation. This is how his Board has already voted unanimously in favour of opening up its capital. Belfius believes, like the Belgian State, that a partial OPI should also demonstrate to the public the results of effective restructuring and increase customer confidence in the resilience, strategy and efficiency of management. Ten years after the start of the 2008 banking and financial crisis, Belgian taxpayers who have contributed to the rescue of our domestic banks – and thus indirectly to the presence of shares in the real economy – have the right, at some point, to see their investment back in the state funds to reduce the country's public debt and to support the Pact for Strategic Investments. That is also an important point I would like to mention. Important preparatory work has been carried out on this subject for more than a year. However, there was no decision by the Council of Ministers at this stage to launch the operation. The reason for this is that in parallel, we are looking at the situation of ARCO. It is a record whose history and retroacts are well known in this House. We know the constraints of European law in this area, not only those relating to state aid, but also other rules of European law. In the context of the summer agreements, in 2017, we considered that, in connection with the possible initiation of a partial stock exchange operation in Belfius, it was useful, in order to strengthen its attractiveness, to examine how to resolve the ARCO problem. I confirm what I have said on several occasions: legal contacts have been established in order to verify the solutions which could be approved, in particular by the European bodies. However, these contacts have not yet been completed. So the file is not in the fridge, Mr. Gilkinet, it is being processed on an ongoing basis. When the matter is considered to be mature, proposals for decisions, in one direction or another, will be submitted to the government. This file is analysed intensively. I hope that clarity will be given as soon as possible on the guidelines to be adopted by the Council of Ministers on both subjects, which are linked, as you have understood. Every effort is being made to that end.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u48	Prime Minister, my answer will contain several elements. First, I consider, and maintain my opinion, that the file is in the fridge. That's what you said, in terms like "intense analysis," etc. Clearly, we are not at the decision-making stage. As for the public status of a bank, I do not consider it to be an absolute guarantee of good management. We have seen examples to the contrary. On the other hand, protecting a bank from pressure and fluctuations on the stock exchange is an element to be considered, especially shortly after the banking and financial crisis that our country has experienced. Secondly, I do not think that the file is comparable to the resale of the Belgian State's shares in BNP Paribas or BNP Paribas Fortis. We had become a minority shareholder of these banks. This is a bank that is currently in the hands of the Belgian state at 100%. I laugh a little in the beard that I do not have when you say that the board of directors is unanimous; indeed, the board is made up of directors appointed by your government. It is difficult to expect them to take a position other than the one you suggest. As for the benefits to the taxpayer, I always look for them. Either there is indeed a capital gain that can reduce the debt of the Belgian State, or even feed into the investment plan that we call for, as you know; or there are regular dividends in the framework of control by the federal State. From a medium-term budgetary point of view, I believe that the result is the same, if not less interesting, with regard to debt reduction, given the rates that are now being applied. You remain very vague about the nature of your disagreements with the European Commission. I feel that there is no agreement. We are not yet in the decision-making stage. I hope, as in other cases, that you will never be in the decision-making stage on the subject, which will allow us to reconsider the matter differently. I really invite you to look at what Germany is doing with its development bank, the KfW. It is a bank with 100 % public capital, which plays a major role in the redeployment of the German economy, including in relation to the stakes of financing SMEs, financing the transition of the economy, energy efficiency. There are other models than the one the government was considering – you used the imperfect – as part of its government agreement. This is an important point: you can always change your mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u49	Prime Minister, the taxpayer is not a winner in this transaction. He's a loser. I asked the Minister of Finance. There is the difference between the interest we will pay less if we use this money to repay the debt and dividends Belfius pays to the State, which are higher in the current level of interest. The Minister of Finance has told us that we may be able to lose it, but at least, vis-à-vis Europe, we will be able to present a good public debt. Finally, the European diktats in budgetary matters are pushing the taxpayer to be relieved of the benefits that he might have had. You're telling us there's no loss of control. Indeed, we have heard that you will not divest more than 49% of the stock market. That's clear. But what do we see in the Dexia case? Dexia also had a majority of public capital. But a real public bank is not only public capital. It is to have a truly public policy, a policy at the service of the population. That will not be the case at all. You say there is no loss of control, but you just said there was an independence of management. It's either one or the other. There's the pressure from the market entry that will push to make as much profit as possible, like any private bank. That's what's harmful. You did not learn the lessons of the crisis of the 1850s that led Brother Orban to lead the policy he made. I understand that you were not yet in politics in 1850, but neither did you learn the lessons of the 2008 crisis! That is the reality, and in my opinion we are moving towards new banking catastrophes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u50	Debates of the European Parliament I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of this. 23604 by Mr Van Hecke and Question No 24158 by Mr Van Peteghem. I have not heard from Mr Blanchart, so I am applying Rule 127.10 of the Rules of Procedure and consider his question No. 22737 withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament 23657 by Mr Vanden Burre is postponed. The Prime Minister must leave for another meeting. The question to the Prime Minister is therefore closed here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u51	Mr President, Mr Vandeput, you are also the Minister of Public Service. We don't know that much! In June 2015, the Council of Ministers decided to launch a process of re-designation of the public authorities, on which I have already had the opportunity to question you and Mrs Wilmès, Minister of Budget. The Council of Ministers on 9 February took note of a note on this approach. The communiqué issued at the end of this meeting states that "eight improvement journeys have been identified during a first phase", that "each of these individual journeys has been placed under the'sponsorship' – what a beautiful term! – a minister" and that "the note includes a description, progress and schedule of each journey". Two years after our first exchange on this project, I would like to take advantage of the adoption of this note in government to be informed of the developments recorded. This is the least that Parliament can learn about these magnificent projects that you are defending. Minister, can you send us the note presented to the Council of Ministers on 9 February? If not, can you mention its content more specifically than in the government statement? Can you specify, for each route, the expected budget economy in the short, medium and long term – because a short-term economy may turn into medium- or long-term expenditure – and the impact on services to the population? Can you indicate, from the start of the redesign process in mid-2016, what amounts have been incurred in consulting expenses, since you announced expenses at that time? Which companies have benefited from the relevant contracts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u52	Mr. President, Minister, in view of the budgetary importance that was announced for the redesignation of the public service into six trajectories, it seems useful to ask you two questions. On the one hand, can you take stock of the evolution of these six routes and, in particular, of the two aspects that relate more directly to your services? On the other hand, in view of the amounts expected and announced as the return of this redesign, what is the revenue recorded by this reform for the benefit of the State budget? Finally, as my colleague has just asked, we would like to have the note presented and approved by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat what I have extensively described in the committee on 20 February 2018 for Mr Gilkinet's Questions 1 and 2. As far as I am concerned, I am responsible for two specifically identified projects. First, Route 1 focuses on the development and implementation of a centrally coordinated collaborative model for procurement within the federal government. This hybrid purchasing model is based on three pillars. One: a strong federal procurement consultation that identifies, coordinates and makes decisions on common needs. Two: centralisation and professionalisation of the purchasing process within vertical entities. Three: a horizontal entity that provides support to vertical entities throughout the acquisition route, i.e. consistent regulation, legal support, collection and provision of strategic information, training, e-procurement, market centre, etc. This model is developed iteratively and in co-creation with organizations. An external partner, including KPMG, accompanied the implementation of this hybrid system until 30 August 2017. This for a total amount of 795,213 euros. Since 1 July, the project has been gradually transferred to a BOSA FPS project team that will monitor the full deployment of the federal procurement model. The model was included in the Royal Decree on Centralized Federal Government Procurement and in the framework of the Federal Procurement Policy, was published on 16 January 2018 in the Belgian Moniteur. A series of training courses have been organized so that all interested can use the new model. Learning is planned over the long term. The training material was validated by the Steering Group on 25 April 2017. A training-test with Defence, SPF BOSA, SPF Finance and SPF Economy took place at the end of 2017. The strategic coordinator of each organization and key buyers were invited to attend the training. Approximately 120 participants registered. Training days took place during the second half of September for multi-year planning. Eight sessions (four in Dutch and four in French) were organized by the Ministry of Defence in collaboration with SPF BOSA and were delivered at the École Royale Militaire. It was already a cross-cutting collaboration within the federal government. This training enabled the strategic coordinators to draw up a multi-year needs plan, each for its institution. They will be informed of the processes to be followed under the hybrid collaboration model. Finally, each strategic coordinator will prepare a needs plan and procurement plan for 2018 and beyond by mid-2018. The satisfaction of the participants was high. The model has been tested through the pooled markets. And here's what you're interested in, Mr Gilkinet: for 2017, we had a return of 250,000 euros, which finally amounted to 616,000 euros. This journey will be continued in the years to come. To date, there are already more than 20 consolidated procurement projects underway, which can generate some gains. The second route for which I am responsible is Route 6, which wishes to reconfigure the support processes within the federal public service for an optimal organization. As a result, vertical departments will benefit from better support so that they can focus on core missions more effectively. To this end, a new horizontal entity was created on 1 March 2017. This is the Strategy and Support FPS, which absorbs the following horizontal FPS: FPS P&O (People & Organisation), B&CG (Budget and Management Control), Fedit, and Empreva. This SPF will take over or return certain tasks of vertical SPFs. The Strategy and Support SPF has three separate missions: first to assist the relevant ministers at the level of their policy, and to monitor the delivery of personnel administration services (human resources, budget, accounting, IT and welfare). At the operational level, the structure is definitively endorsed. All Directorates-General have finalized their catalogue of products and services and their organization chart. To accompany this journey, I awarded a contract for amounts of 84 216 euros to Swinnen Impact Coaching S.A. in 2015, 499 220.16 euros in 2016 and 520 406.48 euros in 2017 to KPMG Advisory. I allocated these amounts within my own jurisdiction. All the employees of SPF BOSA were able to apply for the vacant positions in the new organization and they are now familiar with their new assignment. A client steering committee is operational and its operation continues to be developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u54	Minister, you are not giving us these government-approved documents. In the head of the parliamentarian I am, in order to be able to assess your coordination of this redesign plan, it would be useful to have these documents available. As a reminder, at the budgetary level, the government has recorded a savings of EUR 100 million on this complete redesignation of the civil service. At the time, this amount was called into question by the opposition and the Court of Auditors, which said that this was not clear. In terms of expenses, you are announcing for route I an expenditure of almost 800,000 euros for the benefit of KPMG. You are announcing savings in terms of these spending – let's be honest – which may be structural, but which are far from the millions announced. As far as route II is concerned, there are expenses in excess of EUR 1 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u55	This is route VI.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u56	Route VI, pardon, the second for which you are responsible. That's why I called it Route II, but it's route VI. There is therefore expenditure for more than EUR 1 million with revenues that are even more hypothetical. Again, in this case, the government makes communication which may seem sympathetic to the public but which has a rather heavy impact on the workers concerned and on the service rendered to the public. In terms of results, I cannot estimate anything more than €600,000 in savings on bundled purchases. I can't evaluate anything because you don't give me the relevant notes and because the changes that are announced will be for later. It is therefore a finding of failure here too, as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u57	That's the same thing about us. I would like to reiterate the request for a note from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u58	I said it the last time. It's not my decision to publish government notes. We have to ask the Prime Minister. He's the one you need to talk to, not me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u59	Then I'll talk to him. Since I don't want us to get angry today, I'm going to reformulate. I don't want to put you under any more pressure. That's not the goal of the day. I'm not saying I won't do it tomorrow, but today, I'm giving you a day of respite. I'm always very constructive. The exchanges can be passionate, but they are not constructive. So I'm going to reformulate my line. Since we do not have the note approved by the Council of Ministers, we will make a request to the Prime Minister. It is obviously difficult, even if your answer is relatively dense – I will not fail to read it with rest – to give us an idea, but the first feeling is that between what was announced and expected as benefits and reality, it seems to us that there is a margin. So we will try to get the evidence so that we can confirm our concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u60	Mr President, you are also particularly interested in this subject. Minister, as a result of the reform of the mandate declaration for politicians and civil servants, I was informed that there are gaps at the moment, which would not be mediated by the reform in the Chamber as an extension of the Working Party on Political Renewal. I would like to put my question in the conditional wisdom that not all high-ranking officials who are subject to a declaration obligation actually make a declaration. I understand that the Court of Auditors does not have a 100 percent view of those who are subject to reporting. A list should be drawn up per FOD by the Chairman of the Management Committee, but this would be a mistake. This would mean that the Court of Auditors would not always be able to check that all senior executives are indeed on the list, whereas in principle every public administration is legally obliged to draw up such a list. However, the Court of Auditors cannot control this itself. As far as I know, there's no other body to deal with that either. I suspect you've looked into the matter in the light of my question. So I'm very curious. Are you aware of the problem? If so, to what extent do you consider this to be a real problem? Are the lists of officials responsible for reporting checked in any way? What services have submitted a complete list to the Court of Auditors? What services are lacking functions? How will this be remediated? Is it not possible to draw up a dynamic, verifiable list, so that the control does take place? Minister, I had addressed the question both to you and to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has passed on the question. I hope you can give me a full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u61	Mr Calvo, according to the law of 2 May 1995, the executives of the federal administrations, as well as of the public social security institutions and public institutions, are obliged to deliver a list of mandates to the Court of Auditors. According to the legislator, it was unrealistic to ask the Court of Auditors to draw up and keep up to date the lists of persons required to submit a list of mandates and a statement of assets. This would require the deployment of a large number of staff and could therefore jeopardise the performance of the other tasks of the Court of Auditors. In that respect, of course, you are right, Mr Calvo. Therefore, the legislator has provided that each institution concerned will send annually to the Court of Auditors a list of the persons required to submit a list of mandates and a statement of assets. The chairman of the Management Committee shall be responsible to the federal administrations for this. I have no idea of the audit carried out by the Court of Auditors on the lists of officials liable to report, and I think that is the right thing to do. However, I can inform you that the obligation to report is a legal obligation the non-compliance of which can be sanctioned. You ask me whether you can do something from the opposition and I wish you congratulations, because in response to your question I have addressed a letter to the College of Presidents of the federal administrations to point out the importance and necessity of filing the declaration, if not already done. With regard to the federal government that falls under my jurisdiction, the FOD BOZA, I can tell you that the regulations were respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would also, of course, like to thank you for your letter, which indicates that you will follow up on my question; what I appreciate is more than the average for a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u63	It depends, of course, whether that is the Minister's fault or the quality of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u64	I am asking enough high-quality questions to achieve more than what is being done today.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u65	Mr Calvo, perhaps there is more than one good N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u66	Minister, we have also heard the objection of possibly too much work for the Court of Auditors in other reforms. Sometimes, however, a society and a government must also want to invest. The mandate declaration for the sake of transparency and total integrity of the system is, in my opinion, sufficiently important to invest in it. Your letter seems to me to be a first, modest step in this respect. After all, the perimeter of persons subject to reporting has been expanded. Initially, the Court of Auditors was not a fan of this either, but the Court of Auditors shouldn't have to worry about that. If missions are assigned to the Court of Auditors, then it is up to this Parliament to provide the means to do so, because we too are masters of that. That is why I would like to see whether a formal arrangement might be better, unless you can put other arguments to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u67	Mr Calvo, I have referred to the legislation. The rules are in place. The rules are enforceable because they can be sanctioned. Of course, they must also be carried out. We can draw up a lot of rules, but without enforcement policy there is little point. The legislator and the government are firing a lot of regulations on the civil service. When you talk about integrity in civil servants, and especially in senior officials, we are on the same page. I believe that I have made that clear a few times in the past. If you want to take a legislative initiative in this area, I am certainly prepared to look at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u68	The problem that has been outlined to me is not so much that people on a list do not make their mandate declarations. That is easy to verify. In particular, there would be no functions on the list of mandates.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u69	That is another problem. You are free to take a legislative initiative if you still want to expand the perimeter. I'd like to take a look at that with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u70	I know it is a special passion of Mr Vermeulen. Perhaps we can look at this together in order to take another step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u71	Minister, the Government's agreement this summer provided for a modernization of the public service, including, in particular, a reform of public servants' leave. What is problematic is the proliferation of different leave systems within the federal public service. As such, the government has decided to harmonize these systems and move them towards a single system. The idea would then be to set 35 days off and to end the recovery system and other compensations. Similarly, the abolition of one day's statutory leave and a limitation of bridges would be put on the table. Minister, can you first confirm these various points? Are they on the agenda in public service reform? Harmonisation of leave systems requires simplification, but will it always be beneficial for civil servants? At this stage, what are your negotiations with the social partners? What are your points of divergence and convergence on these different measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u72	Mrs Galant, there are technically incorrect elements in your question, especially about the 35 days without recovery, etc. There are other things in place. As part of the modernization of the public service, a new status is being negotiated within the government. Today, the numerous and complex rules on status limit the movement capacity of our officials and organizations too much, and have a negative impact on an effective and sustainable personnel policy. For example, there is a lack of a real career for contract workers. It was therefore high time to think about simplifying the status and adapting where the function really requires it. The existing regulations will be reformed to arrive at a single centralized, simplified and readable text, called the Codex, for statutory and contractual staff. This code starts from the point of view of the staff member and is based on what is common for both statutes; it specifies what remains specifically applicable to contract workers and statutory employees. Various topics, such as mobility, evaluation, discipline, organization of working time, work independently of place and time, reintegration, neutrality, job descriptions, organization of leave, etc., are described and gathered. What appeared in the press is only a part, moreover partially incorrect, of a large project. However, it is true that a common leave system is being implemented for all federal public services. The project has yet to be negotiated with trade union organisations. However, we have already had informal contacts to present what was planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. It is true that it is a rather complex system. If I hear you correctly, it will be the same, whether we are statutory or contractual. I know there are differences in leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u74	For the holidays, it'll be the same. But things will be different in the future. Everything will be common, except what we will define as different.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u75	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u76	Mr President, Minister, my question will be brief. In a previous exchange of views, you announced that the management – only Dutch-speaking at this stage – of the BOSA support service would evolve to return to a composition more in line with respect for language laws. Where are you in this process? What is the timetable? How will the management of BOSA respect the division of linguistic roles?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u77	Fernandez Fernandez, I have given the ad interim chairman of the steering committee the task of declaring the management functions vacant, so that the selections can still be organised before the summer. The laws on the use of languages in the administrative field – in particular Article 43ter, § 4 – provide for an equal distribution between the two language regimes for these management functions. Of course, language laws will be respected at the time of designation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u78	Mr. Minister, is the competition open?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u79	I asked him to be. The announcement has not yet been published, but it will be published in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u80	Thank you for your answers. Of course, I have no doubt that the linguistic balance will be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u81	Minister, the Court of Auditors has carried out an audit on selection procedures that Selor organises for the federal government and published the results by means of a press release on 22 February. Both legality and internal control were examined. The findings of the Court of Auditors are in line with a previous audit of audit firm KPMG from 2016. The audit shows that, following the 2016 audit, the Action Plan has improved, but the positive impact in practice remains limited. The Court of Auditors points to a number of irregularities. Specific experience requirements seem to be tailor-made for only one candidate. Diplomas that are not admitted were accepted anyway. A candidate who had to be admitted was rejected, while another candidate who had to be rejected was admitted. A full evaluation was subsequently reviewed and another candidate suddenly ended up first. In some consultations of existing recruitment lists, very few successful candidates are contacted with the question of whether they are interested, which means that the number of actual participants for filling a vacancy is too low. The publication of the selection in the Belgian Official Journal does not always correspond to that on Selor's website. The Court recommends that the selection files be systematically and fully digitally documented and archived. Score processing also needs to be more automated. After all, the greatest risks of error would arise in the case of manual processing. In addition, Selor would allow a number of practices to be carried out without a regulatory basis. Selor should also improve internal control during the selection process and further develop the newly established Quality cell, which currently consists of only one person. Mr. Secretary, were these conclusions surprising to you? How many complaints or signals have there been about Selor's operation in the past? Are figures per year available for the last six years? What were they all about? What action will you take on this report? What are the priorities for you? What financial implications and implications for staff will the recommended digitisation have for Selor?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u82	Following the completion of the integrity investigation conducted by the Federal Ombudsman, I had an external process audit carried out in 2016, the results of which were once shared with this committee, if I am not mistaken. A detailed action plan was drawn up by Selor to meet the recommendations of this external audit. The present audit of the Court of Auditors, carried out in the first half of 2017, is in line with the external process audit of 2016 and can be considered a follow-up audit. I would therefore like to thank the Court of Auditors for this audit and for the recommendations on the recruitment procedures of the federal government. The audit of the Court of Auditors has indicated that, unfortunately, a whole series of points remain. My policy cell has therefore instructed those responsible for Selor to update and deepen the action plan in order to meet the specific recommendations of the Court of Auditors. Special attention is given to further optimizing quality checks for the full process of recruitment and selection and to developing the cell Quality within Selor in response to the staff plan 2018. There is also a reform of the recruitment procedure with a view to codifying the Staff Regulations. The lead of the recruitment procedure will be placed with the leading officials of the federal administrations. The aim is to speed up the recruitment of staff while ensuring quality and objective selection in the recruitment of contractual and statutory staff. The recommendations of the Court of Auditors on regulatory matters are also taken into account in this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-03-27-54-commissie-ic854x.u83	Minister, there was an external audit with recommendations in 2016 and a new audit followed. So the intention was that there would be improvement. We have seen that improvement. We have also seen that there are still problems and I am convinced that we will have to proceed very quickly to a new follow-up audit, and then to a new audit, to ensure that there will be more and more finer work. You mentioned a number of points such as the updating of the action plan and the fact that the codification will make adjustments. You will also ensure that the Quality cell is expanded. These are all steps that I do not yet see clearly how effective they will be. The question is also whether the next follow-up, if it happens at the same rate, will bring a lot of news. I'm still hopeful. I remain in favour of a strong change in this part of the administration.
