ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-08-54-plenair-ip247x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-08-54-plenair-ip247x.u2	The next item is the government statement. The next item is the government statement. I call the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-08-54-plenair-ip247x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen in this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, after climbing a hill, many more remain to be crossed. That's the secret Nelson Mandela said he found out. To govern a country is indeed to climb many hills. In four years, we have made a lot of decisions, a lot of reforms and the results are increasingly tangible. We will continue the work. Here is the road map for the last straight line, the road map for the next seven months. One, concreteising the employment deal and the Investment Pact and, especially, the digital agenda. Two, implement the energy strategy. Three, form the choices for the future of Defence. Four, create migration management in an orderly manner. Five, finalise the reforms to ensure the future of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, our country scores internationally well and better, but a sustainable society is far more than figures. Our world order is under pressure and multilateralism, more than ever, is a necessity for a peaceful world today and tomorrow. Our election as a member of the UN Security Council is a clear recognition of our credibility and it is also a strong political and diplomatic victory. It is also a victory in international development, focusing on human rights and on local, inclusive and sustainable economic growth. The challenges remain enormous even closer to home. Within the European Union, the Brexit remains an immense task. How do we ensure that an ally remains a partner without compromising European values? It is our duty to find innovative solutions there too, together with the British. The integrity of the internal market must be fully protected while maintaining strong economic cooperation. Membership of the European Union makes our country stronger. Our model is the free market with rules, with a level playing field and reciprocity. The CETA agreement with Canada is an example. One year later, global exports from Europe to Canada increased by 7%. Ladies and gentlemen, Belgium is experiencing a 56% growth in exports in dat is uitstekend voor de groei, voor de jobs en dus voor de sociale zekerheid. Ladies and gentlemen, for the past four years, the momentum has been positive again. The economy is growing. The employment rate is increasing and unemployment is decreasing. The budget is on the track to clean-up. And yet, we measure that too many people find it difficult to make ends meet, even when they work. The difficulties in filling the shopping cart, paying rent or financing children's studies are real. We must therefore continue to act so that everyone can feel even more, in their daily lives, the positive effects of the decisions that are taken. Four years ago, we made a choice, that of sustainable economic recovery through employment. Real disposable income is increasing, investment is also increasing, and the personal savings rate is increasing. Finally, according to the Plan Bureau, we are going to have stable growth in the context of a slowdown in European growth. Our growth rate is lower today than the European average because we have better resisted the economic crisis and, above all, the rate of growth has to be analysed in terms of the level of wealth per capita. We are a strong economy in the lead, sixth in the euro area and eighth in the European Union. We need to do better. We need to further stimulate investment; the results for foreign investment leave us optimistic for the coming months. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have chosen to boost our economy while at the same time restoring our public finances. Restoring the budget without compromising the economic recovery, alleviating our debt and reducing the tax burden on our citizens are the conditions for ensuring a more solid future. Since the beginning of this legislature, we have reduced the deficit more than three times, from - 2.2 % in 2014 to - 0.6 % in 2019. Today we have the smallest budget deficit in the last ten years and our debt is steadily falling to close to 100% of gross national product. We have reduced current expenditure, and we have been doing most of it by creating jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, a difference with the past is particularly noticeable in the reduction in the burden on labour that has fallen under our administration by EUR 12.9 billion since the beginning of this legislature. Show me the money? Well, here is the money: EUR 12.9 billion for the people who work and create jobs. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the unemployment rate has never been so low since 1981. During this term, the number of fully unemployed job-seekers fell by more than 106,000. This is an unprecedented decrease of 23.5%. Jobs, jobs, jobs, it's an obsession, a daily reality for 219,000 people in four years who got a job. Benefit for them! Benefit for society!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-08-54-plenair-ip247x.u4	Some, I hear, repeat that this would be precarious jobs. That's not true. For the private sector, the proportion of part-time versus full-time is exactly the same as in 2014, about 23%. On the other hand, it is true that there is an increase in high-occupancy part-time work, such as four-fifths of the time, including for men. This reflects, in particular, societal evolution. According to Eurostat, only 7.8% of Belgians report part-time work against their will. We are well below the European average at 27.1%. In short, fact-checking: we create jobs and these are massively quality jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-08-54-plenair-ip247x.u5	We are well aware that job creation alone is not enough to measure the economic and social dynamism of a country. The ability to anticipate and transform is also the secret of success and the preparation of the future. Artificial intelligence, digitalization, robotics, big data already today revolutionize our way of living, working, consuming and even informing us. This is going to get worse, as we know. Some even think that the vast majority, almost 85% of 2030 jobs do not yet exist. It is therefore our responsibility to continue to modernize our economy and labour market. We have reformed the labour market in terms of shift work, casual or night work. As a result, we have consolidated, concretely, significant investments in key sectors for our country. The automotive sector, for example. We have also relaxed the rules for employment-providing sectors, such as horeca or retail trade. I am committed to these reforms, and we are carrying them out on a daily basis with the concern of combining family life and working life, while respecting the balance between one and the other. I mean, I'm in front of you four years later. We promised the tax shift with an additional 100 euros net per month for low wages. It was our commitment and no one has forgotten the doubts, sometimes even the sarcasm: the tax shift would not be funded, it would be a promise in the air. Today, the facts are there, we kept our word. We did better than announced: an additional $1.5 billion in 2019. As of January 1, 2019, an additional increase in purchasing power. The total tax shift gain is a net increase in income of up to €150 per month for low wages. With the indexation of baraemic increases, it is 240 net euros per month, 2,400 euros per year. Promise held! Ladies and gentlemen, we also believe that we must encourage companies to focus more on the motivation of workers, in particular through the new introduction of a system of worker participation for the benefit of workers. The system existed but it was rigid. It has been relaxed and is increasingly used. We look forward to it. Ladies and gentlemen, we see that some are constantly, tirelessly and obsessively trying to oppose workers and businesses. Not only is it archaic, but it's mostly absurd. It's not our choice. We believe that enterprise development strengthens employment and innovation. We believe that the efforts of workers, their talent and their ingenuity play a major role in the service of collective development. That is why we want to continue the work in order to remove the obstacles that reduce the innovation capabilities of companies. That is why we also support the jobs and net wages of those who work. The wage disadvantage vis-à-vis neighbouring countries has been largely eliminated. The only zero contribution measure led to more than 30,000 additional jobs. This is a decrease per year of over 11,000 euros. It's concrete! We also support farmers faced with the vagaries of their economic activity. We are acting today, for example, in the context of swine fever or in connection with the drought that has an impact on them. This Friday we decided to put in place the carry back to better support farmers' incomes. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, corporate tax has also been reformed. The effects on small and medium-sized enterprises have been felt since 1 January this year. Here again, I will be concrete: a medium-sized company with a taxable profit of EUR 300 000 makes an additional average gain of EUR 20 000 per year. This reform is fair and necessary, because SMEs are the backbone of our economy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first priority is the full implementation of the job deal and the investment pact. Our employment rate has increased, but is still below the European target. The 28 concrete reforms are the culmination of the modernisation of our labour market, with an objective in mind: to activate more people. Young people, the elderly and people with a migration background have too few opportunities on the labour market, while we hear the same story from all entrepreneurs all the time. There are thousands of bottleneck professions to fill in today, but companies find too few people. There is a doubling of the number of vacancies in three years. Degressivity in unemployment benefits is therefore an important boost. Some try to make it a caricature, but the principle is very simple. We are not going to save on the hood of the unemployed. On the contrary, we make unemployment insurance a springboard to work. We're escorting you to a new job. Resigned workers will have to register with the employment service within one month and the government will also introduce a tax exemption for regional training grants into a bottleneck profession. Stimulation and activation are key concepts. We are going to turn the other side of the coin into another asset. Ladies and gentlemen, investments do not cease. Underinvestment has become a regrettable trend in recent decades. Public investment has been halved since the early 1970s. Public investment currently accounts for 2.2 %. This is much lower than in the Scandinavian countries which invest up to 4%. We must act now, today. We will work with anyone who wants it: states, majority, opposition, social partners and the private sector, regardless of election dates. We want to put a turbo on our investments. The substantial report of the Strategic Committee is ready. Investment is much needed in energy, digitalisation and mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already set aside funds for 2019. EUR 6 billion for rail, passenger comfort and safety and new rolling stock. We also invest in the improvement of stations such as Namur, Chaudfontaine, Mechelen and Vilvoorde. Brussels-North and Brussels-South are also being adapted. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, after years of immobilization, the finalisation of the RER has been relaunched.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-08-54-plenair-ip247x.u6	Charleroi airport will also be better connected to the network thanks to the opening of a station in Fleurus. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also investing in the digital transition. This year, our digital divide is falling below 10% for the first time. More and more people have access to the Internet. Now it's up to everyone to come along. This means focusing on digital skills. Six out of ten companies and also the government today have problems finding the right ICT profiles. In the future, every job needs basic digital skills. That's why we support innovative projects for young and old with the Digital Belgium Skills Fund. A second major breakthrough, the number of citizens' digital interactions with government has almost tripled since 2014. Look at the success of the app itsme with already over 2.5 million mobile logins. The eBox will also be introduced in the coming months. Our digital infrastructure is among the best in Europe. Now we are going to improve accessibility and work on lower telecom prices. The government has decided to allow a fourth mobile operator. The potential arrival of a new player should lead to lower prices, more innovation and a faster roll-out of the 5G network that is 14 times faster than 4G. The government imposes additional cover obligations on operators, including along the main train lines. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the second priority for this last straight line of the next seven months: the energy issue. Security of energy supply is, of course, a permanent and essential challenge for our companies and our citizens, both for our country and for those around the world. Over the last week, there has been a lot of anxiety and misunderstanding. We were immediately mobilised to make the situation clear, but above all to ensure that the situation was monitored. The management of the nuclear fleet by Electrabel lacked the most elementary foresight. Everyone will have understood that the government and consumers have been confronted with a fait accompli that is, of course, unacceptable. We will use all means of law to defend the interests of consumers. This Friday, we gave the CREG a mandate to objectify the impact on the market and the tariffs. The price increases related to the abnormal unavailability of the nuclear fleet will have to be charged to ENGIE Electrabel. With order and method, we work to balance energy supply sources and needs. The task force put in place is progressing from day to day in order to consolidate our position. Yesterday, in a telephone conversation with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, we received the guarantee of her country's cooperation in terms of imports. The risk to security of supply this winter is getting further away every day, but we are continuing the work with all the actors. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must also learn the lessons for the future. The abrupt and improvised exit of nuclear power - which some argue - is not an option for us. Recent evidence shows that pretending the opposite is a form of illusion. We will maintain the course and energy strategy approved by the government, which will be implemented. It foresees a controlled exit from nuclear power, at a realistic, predictable pace and with the necessary monitoring. We will also finalize, it is essential, the capacity compensation mechanism to stimulate alternative energies. Finally, the energy standard must also be implemented, with the partnership of regional players to control prices. We made a quick and important decision for offshore wind, which led us to reduce the bill for consumers by 4 billion euros. Moreover, this issue is closely linked to another fundamental issue for the future of the planet. Climate change is indisputable. Even today, the IPCC is launching a new call. It is still possible to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreements. We obviously need to change our behaviour in order to do so. We are citizens, civil society and governments. We must all be mobilized. Ladies and gentlemen, health is naturally a primary concern for all our fellow citizens. We must ensure access to quality health care for all. Belgium is widely recognized as a "pharma valley". We need to amplify this asset, and further develop our innovation capabilities. For example, the framework and financial resources for clinical trials are fully in line with this ambition. The health care budget is constantly increasing and repayment choices are made. They are based on objective criteria. For example, our country is the third largest consumer of antibiotics in the OECD. Freying and controlling the overconsumption of these drugs is to preserve their medical effectiveness. We have also adopted a mechanism to encourage faster reductions in the price of medicines. This dynamic management aims to better stimulate and modernise care routes, but also, and it is essential, to promote access to new therapies. For example, the blood test for trisomy 21 in the foetus is now almost fully reimbursed. Another very substantial example: immunotherapy, which, as we know, raises many hopes in the fight against cancer, will be more and more accessible tomorrow. Colleagues, depression, like burn-out, are the new evils of this early century. Almost one third of people with disabilities are disabled for reasons related to mental illness. That's impressive. It is essential that we fully mobilize to strengthen the prevention of psycho-social risks, especially at work. No fewer than 200 concrete projects have been introduced. I want, with the whole government, to call on all actors to take action. Political leaders, social partners, members of the medical profession, we must step up our efforts. We have an obligation to achieve results on this essential subject. Reimbursement of psychological care is, moreover, perfectly within the scope of this objective. Ladies and gentlemen, our social security guarantees solidarity between the active and the unemployed, solidarity with the weakest and most disadvantaged. The prosperity envelope, which is spent at 100%, will receive an additional boost of 353 million euros in 2019 and 716 million euros in 2020. In consultation with the social partners, the budget will be used to increase the benefits of the most vulnerable, their pensions, living wages and invalidity benefits. During the current legislature, the living wage was raised seven times. That is an increase to EUR 1 980 per year for a head of household. That is the reality. That's authentic social policy. Let me give you another example. The government has introduced an increase of 165 euros per month for a disabled person. It is on top of the EUR 63 that was decided during the previous legislature. So we have no lessons to learn in social justice. We'll do it. These efforts must continue in order to further combat poverty in our country. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fraud is cheating on the honest taxpayer. The fight against tax and social fraud is a permanent challenge. Revenue from the fight against social fraud has risen from EUR 112 million in 2011 to EUR 266 million in 2017. In the fight against tax fraud, every measure from the past has been implemented in its entirety. We have also taken many new initiatives. And there will be 150 million euros of new measures, with an impact in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ensuring respect for people, their physical integrity and their property is, of course, the primary mission of the State. Every citizen is free. No privilege, no discrimination. Every citizen has rights and duties. Our security services are cutting down exceptional work in difficult circumstances. They fight criminals, protect public order and our freedoms, reduce terrorism. Our security services are the driving force behind democracy. I want to express my gratitude, my respect. We must always be intransigent in the face of those who threaten or attack them. As we know, this year, a heavy toll was paid by our police forces in Liège and Spa. Our thoughts are with their families and loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-08-54-plenair-ip247x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, four years ago terrorists had the constitutional right to sleep on both ears between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. There were senseless restrictions when our investigators were tracking criminals and it is true that we were very destitute in the face of cyber-threats. We have changed our view with Parliament, ensuring a constant balance between the right to security and fundamental freedoms. We have freed up more financial resources, more human capacity, more legal means, to strengthen our security services. Dozens of laws have been passed and, of course, we want to continue with Parliament to the end the implementation of the recommendations of the committee of inquiry on the attacks, with particular attention, of course, to the situation of the victims. Military protection for sensitive sites, as well as local police efforts for courts and tribunals, will gradually be replaced by a new corps of 1500 federal protection and surveillance officers. Here, too, we continue the work. The Penal Code will also be reformed to better adapt it to technological and societal developments. Vulnerable minors will be better protected. Violation of sexual integrity or rape will be further punished. Ladies and gentlemen, we want justice anchored in the 21st century, more modern, more efficient and more accessible. Many reforms are under way. We want dialogue with judicial actors, but also with litigants. We also want to continue the development of new codes, investments in digitisation and the autonomous management of the judiciary. The institution of marriage has evolved, as has the family unit. This is why reforms have been undertaken in terms of matrimonial or inheritance regimes, to better take into account new forms of family life. Finally, along the same lines - it is essential - the reform of the Code of Economic Law has simplified the lives of businesses and stimulated the spirit of enterprise. Above all, thanks to this reform, our society finally recognises the right to failure and second chance. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to ensure our security at home, but also in partnership with our allies for peace and stability. We are proud to welcome the headquarters of NATO and the European Union. We want to remain a loyal and reliable partner in these two organizations. Under this legislature, we decided to put an end to the permanent and systematic economies in the field of defence, because the geopolitical situation has changed radically and we no longer perceive – as was the case in the past – the dividends of peace: instability, conflicts in southern Europe, hybrid threats, cyberterrorist attacks are the new realities of our time. The Military Programming Act sets the budgetary framework and priorities. Several programs are established: armoured vehicles, frigates and mine hunters, drones and fighter aircraft. This is our third priority. We will very quickly - and in any case before the end of the legislature - take the necessary decisions for each of these programs. Ladies and gentlemen, migration movements are inherent in the history of the world. They are a fourth priority for us. Humanity and firmness, solidarity and realism are the coherent principles that must constantly guide our action. Humanity, because we are ensuring that we respect our European and international commitments. Since 2015, our protection has been granted to nearly 48,000 people, who are fleeing war or fear of being subjected to violence on account of their race, religion, sexual orientation or political opinions. But at the same time, we are intransigent with respect for our laws. Yes, we will continue a determined fight against illegal immigration. Since the beginning of the legislature, 38,000 illegal residents have voluntarily or forcibly left the Territory and more than 5,800 illegal residents have been expelled. We have to do better, do better. Return policy must be more effective. In addition to the masterplan decided, we will create 300 additional places in closed centres. Ladies and gentlemen, there is increasing transmigration in our country. People who refuse to apply for asylum are staying here illegally. We do not tolerate our country becoming a transit route to Britain. We do not tolerate human smugglers developing their deadly model among us. In Zeebrugge, on the highway to the sea or in the Maximilian Park, public order must and will be guaranteed. That is the aim of our action plan, which we will fully implement. Close cooperation with the British Government should make control more complete. The aim is also to better orient and inform the transmigrants. We will encourage them to apply for asylum, either to leave our territory voluntarily or under duress. Good cooperation with local authorities is also essential in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-08-54-plenair-ip247x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we are also active at European level: the strict control of the external borders of the European Union, the strengthening of the principle of responsibility for the states of first entry and the solidarity of all the other Member States. We are also mobilized, within the framework of this sacred Europe-Africa alliance that we are advocating at European level, to work to resolve the root causes of illegal migration. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the government will continue to work on the sustainable financing of pensions for the next seven months. At the end of the legislature, one of the most important reforms of our pension system will have been implemented since 1945. We want to further reform with three parallel objectives: the extension of the average career, the harmonisation of regimes and, of course, a stronger link between work and retirement. Today we see the first results of our policy to keep people working longer. The average retirement age in 2014 was 59.6 years. Now we're at 60.5 years. Our measures will reduce the cost of ageing by almost 2% of GDP by 2060. Moreover, we have spent almost EUR 900 million extra on improving the well-being of our pensioners. Most of this amount went to the revaluation of the lowest pensions, in particular minimum pensions. The minimum pension for a single worker with a full career increased by 122 euros per month in four years. We will also make part-time pensions possible. This means more freedom of choice for people and the ability to work longer. The generalisation of the second pension pillar is also a strong commitment. This is an encouragement of responsibility and a way of making a solid pension possible for the three regimes. Ladies and gentlemen, we also want to make progress in the reform of the heavy professions. A broad social dialogue is under way. The government is aware that this is a very sensitive debate and everyone feels involved in this reform. Our principles are clear. We want maximum parallelism between the private and public sectors and we are going to base our decision on a transparent and substantiated budgetary analysis. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to my conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, all citizens have an important meeting on Sunday. They can determine the course of their own city or municipality. I would like to call on everyone to take part in the election with conviction on 14 October. My message is certainly also addressed to the young people who are going to vote for the first time. Inform yourself and make a choice with knowledge. Democracy only lives if one participates in it. Our democracy stands strong through values of freedom, tolerance and legal certainty. These values must continue to defend our young people. Everywhere in Europe people are often insecure and afraid of the future. Every day there's a new polemic. We fall into the trap of fake news too often, without always verifying that it is true. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy is a responsibility of everyone. Do we want a world in which democrats no longer manage democracy? Fact-checking is essential in a society based on values and freedoms. We do not want to give up these values and freedoms. The government is therefore going to support a fund that encourages projects around fact-checking. Ladies and gentlemen, political action must be confronted with reality. Political action must be confronted with the truth of the facts rather than with the ease of perceptions and illusions. The critical mind, the objectivation must be at the service of the quality of the democratic debate. We do not fear the objectivity of the facts. We do not fear the strength of democratic exchanges. On the contrary, we wish it. Four years ago, for the first time, on behalf of the government, I spoke to you. Since then, we have worked hard, reformed in depth. And in four years, it is also true, our country has faced adversities. We have ensured consistent and consistent implementation of our project: - more jobs, because it is the best social protection; - more investment, because it is the best preparation for the future; - healthier finances, because we owe it to our children; - more security, because it's more freedom. Seven months and five priorities remain: the job deal, the investment pact and the digitalisation, the energy strategy, investments in Defence, the management of migration and the future of our pensions. We will continue to put our hearts to work. To rule is to climb hills. We will redouble our efforts to serve all citizens for a more dynamic, modern and secure country. I ask you to trust the government. I ask you to trust the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-10-08-54-plenair-ip247x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has given me a motion of confidence. It reads as follows: 'The government demands the confidence of the Chamber'. We can vote on it at 3 p.m. at the earliest on the day after tomorrow (Art. 140, No. Paragraph 6, first paragraph, of the Rules of Procedure). Colleagues, the Prime Minister has just given me a motion of confidence, which reads: "The government is asking for the confidence of the House." We can only vote on this motion at the earliest day after tomorrow at 3.03 p.m. (s. 140, No. 6, para. 1 of the Regulation). Tomorrow, at 10 a.m., we will proceed with the constitutional formation of the Chamber and then the debate will follow. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting Tuesday, October 9, 2018 at 10.00 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 9 October 2018 at 10 a.m.
