ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u1	We come to the oral questions. Mr. Clarinval arrives a little later. Mr. Thiébaut is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u2	Mr Minister, at the beginning of August, La Libre Belgique reported to us from the Minister of Justice that the renovation of the Brussels courthouse would not be completed until 2040. He added that the total cost of the operation would amount to EUR 100 million. While this new 20-year deadline was already incomprehensible, we learned in September that part of the ceiling of the registry of the same courthouse had collapsed. Although fortunately no injured person is to be deplored, the material damage nevertheless seems considerable and adds again to the deplorable state of this major building of our heritage. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What are the plans of the Régie des Bâtiments to finally undertake the complete renovation and a sustainable and structural security of this building? Do you confirm the deadlines and costs proposed by the Minister of Justice? What is the extent of the damage caused by this collapse? When will the work be undertaken to ensure the safety of the occupants of the courthouse?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u3	Mrs Lalieux, my answer will be a little more extensive, because the building in question deserves it. It was mismanaged for years. The scaffolding has been installed for forty years.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u4	I have never seen the courthouse without scaffolding.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u5	There you go. It seems to me that, throughout this period, the PS has exercised a lot of responsibilities, but nothing changes. The current government, on the other hand, has made a difference. The Justice Palace requires the Government of the Buildings to adopt an overarching approach, including the restoration of the façade. The study, which includes the complete restoration of all facades, has started. The front façade comes first. The study and work on the façade will be completed by 2021 at the latest, unless unforeseen circumstances occur. The facades should be completed by 2027. In short, we are doing a study on the façade. Then we start the works and make a study of the second façade, while the works of the façade are still in progress, and so it goes on. According to the planning resulting from the recently launched study, the end of the facades would be by 2030. Then the theories would disappear. In the memorandum of 7 July 2017 of the Council of Ministers on the appointment of the study team for the restoration of the facades, a publication in June 2017 was assumed. However, the dossier had to be re-examined by the new public procurement legislation, which allowed publication to take place only at the end of September, i.e. three months later. The opening of the tenders took place at the end of November 2017. The file was recorded by May 2018, and after the standstill is served at the beginning of July 2018. The study is therefore in progress since early 2018. The time required to study and restore each area was estimated to be three and a half years per area. It has also been foreseen that, starting from phase 2, the various studies of the different areas will be able to follow without waiting for the completion of the work concerned. This would give the following schedule: - Zone 1, Poelaert Square side facades: 2018-2022; - Zone 2, the fronts on Wynants Street and the base of the dome: 2022-2026; - the street-side facades at Les Laines: 2024-2028; - the facades on the Rue des Minimes side: 2026-2030. The overall cost of restoration of facades and studies is estimated at €80 million, including VAT. With regard to the contribution of the Poelaert Foundation to the future development of the courthouse, I wanted to point out that the decision taken by the Council of Ministers in 2016 to allocate the entire courthouse to the services of justice, not to a shopping centre or other farfetched idea, fully corresponds to the aspiration of the Poelaert Foundation to upgrade the courthouse. The renovation of the parking ramps is one of the elements that must be taken into account in the Region's decision on an application for an environmental permit to be submitted jointly by the Régie des Bâtiments and the SPF Justice. In addition to the "façades" project, since the decision of the Council of Ministers in 2016, a number of work has recently been carried out or started. First, the entrances were secured. The main entrance to Poelaert Square was with the street scan. Two separate entrances were introduced, one for the public, with the scan street, and the other for magistrates and staff. There is also an entrance for street staff in Les Laines. This represents an investment of approximately €1.8 million, including VAT. This is the investment made by the Régie des Bâtiments. The FPS Justice is also investing. New offices for the correctional registry of the Dutch-speaking court of first instance have also been established. To this end, former bpost premises have been renovated. These offices have been operational since the end of 2017. This represents an investment of EUR 463,000. In addition, the flat roofs of the courthouse, with a surface area of 20,000 m2, have been replaced. This was done in two phases: 2006-2010 and 2011-2015, with an investment of €4 million. There is also work in progress. The works for the boxes in the various courtrooms represent an investment of €4.3 million, excluding VAT. Four new highly secure courtrooms will be set up to deal with criminal cases. In one of the courts of the courthouse, a volume of the 50-60s was destroyed to be replaced by a new modular volume in which these four rooms will be fitted out. Traffic lanes for the public, magistrates and detainees will be completely separated from each other. The work will last about a year, until the end of 2019. Work is also under way to restore and equip former rooms of the Commercial Court for the Registry of the Court of Cassation. The work is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2018 and the investment is €8 million. As regards the damage to the false ceiling of the registry of the Court of Cassation, it has been found that they result from infiltration of water, itself caused by a descent of blocked rainwater. In order to ensure that other problems of run-off from roofs will not yet occur, particular attention has been paid to the proper maintenance and cleaning of roof channels and drains in a timely manner, as well as to the good condition of water discharges. On this last point, a camera inspection of all evacuations and a monitoring of the maintenance of channels, drains and roofs are planned in the near future. As the first camera inspection tests of the water drains have been successful, the planned inspections will take place in the next few days. As a security measure, it was decided to close the entire area to judicial officials and the public. In order to determine the size and accuracy of the repair to be arranged, it is now necessary to wait until the ceiling is completely dry. At first glance, the damage seems less severe than expected, since it is actually a piece of plaster moulding strip that has fallen. The length of the piece is in the order of one meter.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u6	Minister, thank you for your precise response to the timing. I will not fail to read it again in the transcript. When was the response to the transplant limit sent to you? It was destroyed in September and I do not know whether, since then, the work has been carried out because it has not been raining in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u8	I guess it'll be fixed very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u9	I would like to say that this is the responsibility of the occupant of the building and not of the Régie. The occupant sometimes tends to forget it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u10	Maintenance work is required on a regular basis in buildings. Otherwise, it leads to disasters, as is the case at the moment. But, as I understand it, the work to repair the ceiling has not yet been carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u11	Mr President, it is well known that as part of the NATO summit, a prestigious meal was organized in the magnificent premises of the Royal Museums of Art and History of the Cinquantenaire. In order to do so, work was urgently commissioned in view of the outdated facilities. Minister, did the Régie des Bâtiments proceed on this occasion with work just in view of this prestigious dinner? If so, what was this work and for what amounts? It is particularly important to note that one can invest quickly when it comes to prestige, but when it comes to maintaining the building in condition, it becomes difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Lalieux, the budget for the renovation work carried out by the Régie des Bâtiments in connection with this event amounts to EUR 544,500. The necessary appropriations have been made available to the Régie through the interdepartmental provision. They do not therefore come from the credits of the Régie stricto sensu.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u13	Minister, thank you. Half a million were indeed released quickly just for the prestige of an evening with this NATO summit. It is a pity that this sum and other sums are not used to maintain this important and very beautiful building, but it is in good need of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u14	Mr President, Minister, this issue dates back to August last year. A police operation took place on Monday, August 20th at the site of the future Haren prison to evacuate activists opposed to the creation of this mega-correctional complex. From the beginning, Ecolo-Groen strongly opposes this project to receive 1,190 detainees on 116 000 m2 in the north of Brussels and denounces the total lack of transparency in the procedures, so far in any case. The police operation of 20 August stopped us because you promised not to start work until all legal remedies against the project were exhausted, and the contract with the Cafasso consortium, designated for implementation, was not signed. You confirmed this to me in response to a question I asked you on June 19. I will not read your answer here, but in short, you said that you would wait for the last permits, especially for the Keelbeek procedure, for the name of a path that has been diverted. I also come to the contract with the Cafasso consortium. On June 19, I asked you about this case, and you confirmed that there was no contract yet. On 18 July, the Régie des Bâtiments issued a communiqué announcing the definitive designation of Cafasso for the execution of the works. Thus, a contract seems to have been signed. If that is the case, I would ask that it be made public, as you committed yourself to it in committee, and that, as a result, Members and citizens have access to it to understand what has been done and what are the financial and other conditions of this contract. Minister, I would also like to ask you the following two questions: Why did you order the evacuation of the land with a view to starting the construction of the prison when last August the court decision had not yet been issued concerning the last suspensive remedy, that of the Keelbeek? My second question is to ask you to make public the contract signed between the Régie des Bâtiments and the consortium Cafasso.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u15	Mr Vanden Burre, the DBFM contract was signed on July 18. The Régie des Bâtiments has already had enforceable permits since December 2016, while applications for suspension of the environmental and urban permits of the prison complex have, in the meantime, been rejected. The application for annulment of the decision of the government of the Brussels-Capital Region for the deviation and removal of the vicinal roads, in particular the deviation of the Keelbeek road, was also rejected on 25 October 2018. Given the need for a new Brussels prison, it is unnecessary for me to remind you of the de facto situation of the existing Brussels prisons. Moreover, since a report is more expensive, a risk assessment has been carried out and it has been decided to start preparatory work, including the necessary remediation of polluted soils, which will take some time. This, however, required further expulsion because, although the Court of Appeal had given the Régie des Bâtiments the right in the third opposition against the expulsion of 2015, the prison site was once again occupied by opponents. Thus, the Régie des Bâtiments was again obliged to submit a unilateral request for expulsion. The court authorized the Régie des Bâtiments to expel anyone who is unlawfully on the ground and to remove the erected works and objects on the ground. This decision notified of expulsion is enforceable by provision, which means that it can be enforced immediately by a judicial officer, even if the judicial decision is not yet final and it is still subject to appeal or third opposition. Since such expulsion requires the action of various parties and some preparation, the date of expulsion was already fixed prior to the introduction of the third opposition. The earlier judgment of the Court of Appeal reinforced the Régie des Bâtiments in its decision not to wait for the treatment of the third opposition which, in fact, is nothing more than a delaying manoeuvre. As you probably already know, in the meantime all applications were declared inadmissible or unfounded in the third party opposition proceedings on 26 September 2018. It is true that during the expulsion some materials were burned after it had been agreed in the preparatory discussions that the non-reusable materials would be evacuated. However, on the day of the expulsion, an appeal was launched in the social media to come to prevent the expulsion, which led the judicial officer to make the decision to evacuate only plastic residues and to burn the wooden material, because the site was difficult to access and everything would have taken too long, so that the cleaning team would have risked being confronted with actions. The purpose of the choice to burn wood was to prevent the material from being reused for new actions. Finally, with regard to the publication of contract documents, I would like to point out that the aim is to provide maximum transparency in this matter. However, the confidentiality of the contract should also be stressed. That is why these documents will be available to parliamentarians under strict conditions. We are taking the necessary steps to organize this consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u16	Minister, thank you for your many points of answer. I'll take the time to look at them in detail. I'm obviously not surprised at what you're telling me. From the beginning, you have indicated your willingness to go to the end of this file, which we regret. We've already said that. Indeed, the condition of the Brussels prisons in Forest and Saint-Gilles is unacceptable. There is no debate on this point. From there to build a mega-complex that can accommodate more than 11,000 inmates in an area such as Haren is quite questionable and challenges us. It is not because we really have to find a solution in Forest and Saint-Gilles – we fully agree – that this justifies Haren's project. This is, in any case, our position from the beginning. We never said it was great to keep the prisoners in the present state in Forest and Saint-Gilles. In Forest, conditions are particularly unworthy as in Saint-Gilles for a large part as well. As far as the contract is concerned, I mean that you are going to organise a consultation procedure. Let's do it as soon as possible! It is important to have all these elements because beyond the decision and debate on prison policy (it is a debate that we have had and that we will continue to have), we have a different vision from that of building mega-prins like Haren. In addition to the prison debate, there is also a debate on transparency and good governance around this contract and public procurement. We don't have our appeasements on that either. Many questions remain open. I would like to insist that this procedure be put in place as soon as possible. We will remain very attentive.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u17	Minister, the construction site of Namur's new courthouse is expected to begin this summer. However, we learn that no company has yet been designated for this purpose, while the Régie des Bâtiments assured that the contract would be awarded in 2017. This delay would be the result of the government's financial choice. If the building had been built immediately, the Belgian State would have had to pay an estimated sum of between EUR 80 million and EUR 100 million. To avoid this expense, the government would have preferred to have the future Namibian courthouse built by a private developer, then paid through a 20-year lease of the building. The resumption of the project would not take place until spring 2019. The time required to build the building was estimated to be three years. This means that the inauguration would not be expected until 2022. Minister, can you inform me of the status of this issue? Can you confirm this information and ensure that the first stones will be laid in spring 2019? Or will it be necessary, once again, to expect a postponement? With this in mind, what solution do you recommend to ensure the safety of the staff of the Namibian courthouse, whose old age is attested to by certain incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u18	Mrs Grovonius, since the decision of the Council of Ministers in 2016, several reasons have prevented the Régie des Bâtiments from publishing this contract to date. For example, new programmes that address the needs of justice, new standards and new public procurement laws are the main factors slowing down the case. The Régie des Bâtiments hopes to receive a non-dirimant opinion from the Institute of National Accounts by the end of January 2019, in order to be able to publish the market around Easter holidays. Then there will be the analysis of the tenders and the passage of the decision on the award to the Council of Ministers. The Régie hopes to begin work in the fourth quarter of 2019. With regard to staff security, the Régie regularly and mainly intervenes in invoices for a maximum amount of 5,500 euros excluding VAT, with a view to resolving the problems which it finds or which are reported to it. At present, more serious problems of ceiling renovation are suspended pending the agreement of the occupant as this requires the blocking of a stairwell for a period of 15 days, resulting in the inaccessibility of certain rooms on the floor. Currently, no serious safety concerns have been identified for the occupants or clients of the complex. Things are being monitored very closely and the necessary steps are being taken to ensure this safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u19	Minister, I thank you for those elements of the response that remain alarming and that do not satisfy me at all. I understand that the dates advanced will not be respected. Work will begin even later than what I was able to read in the press. In all likelihood, this inauguration will surely be well after 2022. In the meantime, staff and users must attend a courthouse, which unfortunately falls into tatters. I am not at all satisfied with this answer. I find it a shame to see what state our justice is in today with this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u20	Mrs Grovonius, all the problems related to the courthouse date back to 2015! It used to be a wonderful palace, all in gold! Finally!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u21	Minister, decisions have been made at some point. Masterplans were on the table for the renovation of the courthouse. But from year to year, you post and do not find the budgetary means to do the work that is necessary. That's it!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u22	Minister, in the 1970s, the commune of Philippeville transferred, for the symbolic franc, the building of justice of peace (located on the Place de Philippeville) to the Régie des Bâtiments. This building is currently empty and, at the beginning of 2017, the Régie would have indicated its intention to sell it. Following this announcement, the town of Philippeville made an offer of prizes but, to the best of my knowledge, has received no reply. Minister, may I ask for information on this? What is the will of the Régie? Does she still want to sell this building?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u23	Mr Clarinval, the Régie des Bâtiments has reviewed the various values and determined a fair price between the cession by the commune for the symbolic franc in 1970 and the investments made by the Régie des Bâtiments during the last 45 years, considerably increasing its value. Taking these parameters into account, a new sales proposal was sent to the city of Philippeville at the end of July 2018. The Régie des Bâtiments is waiting today to receive approval from the city on this new amount to allow it to sell it to it. Without a response from the city before the end of January 2019, the Régie des Bâtiments will continue the procedure of selling this building following a classic public sale.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u24	Minister, my question was in June. I guess that probably revived the case. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, following the communal elections, the commune of Philippeville is in current business, which may prevent it from giving an answer before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u25	That is why the deadline runs until the end of January. I think it should be possible to grant him another month.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u26	Minister, thank you for your response and flexibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u27	Mr President, Minister, in 2011 the then Minister of Justice concluded an agreement with the BAM consortium on the construction, financing and maintenance of a new prison in Dendermonde. We are now several years away and the construction of this prison has not yet begun. This has a lot to do with procedural matters; obtaining a permit appears to be extremely difficult. I read in your policy paper that, at least at the time of drafting your policy paper, there are good prospects for the procedure at the Council of State with regard to the PRUP. The established PRUP will be able to be ratified and this will then be the basis of the environmental permit to be obtained, which can be expected to take the necessary time. I would have liked to have had a state of affairs regarding the procedures for obtaining this licence. I have also read in your policy paper that they are planning to extend the existing contract. Don't get me wrong, I am obviously in favour of a contract extension in such a way that, once the permits have been obtained, work can be done quickly on building the prison, which is really necessary. However, I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the risk to be properly assessed and mastered as much as possible. You will understand immediately what I am referring to, namely compensation for damages. At the time, we concluded an agreement in which the risk of obtaining the licence was entirely with the government, with the result that damages had to be paid, as well as waiting interest, waiting fees and the like. I would like to ask that those who are able to make decisions on this matter should have the best possible control in order not to follow the same path. Mr President, can you give an overview of the cost of compensation to date? We started with 30 000 euros a day delay. How much is the total cost now? Can you estimate the waiting fees, interest rates, procedural costs, etc.? Finally, this is not the subject of my question, Minister, but I would like to take this opportunity to ask about the buildings of justice, since the policy paper is on the table. You shouldn't answer it, but I'll ask the question. If you don't have an answer or need to check it out, that's no problem for me. In the courthouse in Oudenaarde, for example, the ceiling of the cell complex came down on 12 October. The cause was water immersion. I was in the building. I am not making it a media incident, but I am concerned about the state of the building, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u28	In Oudenaarde?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u29	In Oudenaarde, but that won't be the only place where there are problems. There are resources. Our Justice where justice is spoken deserves buildings in good condition. I really don't want to finger anyone, but is the building in Oudenaarde, for example, being inspected? Are the necessary resources being allocated to put the building in good condition? I started the desk in 1985 or 1986, Minister. I remember the colour of the hallway in the courthouse in Ghent: it was dirty yellow. It has become darker and darker in all this time, not to say black. We've been so many years. Does that take so much effort? I don't know who's ever gonna record it, but it's not a face to get justice in buildings that degenerate? I do know that the general good intention is there, but what is the position or should I not ask you that question, or is this not the time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u30	Mrs. Van Cauter, it's always the right time. I'll go into the courthouse in Oudenaarde first. The maintenance of the buildings, including paintings, is the responsibility of the customer, in this area of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u31	Minister, is Justice working with the Government of the Buildings? If the ceiling falls down...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u32	Mrs Van Cauter, a distinction has to be made between the two. Maintenance, such as paintwork, is the responsibility of the customer. As for the ceiling of Oudenaarde, my associate has just informed me that we are not aware of this, which suggests that this is probably under control within the Regie. In the Palace of Justice in Brussels we experienced something similar, because there was a part of the false ceiling, a wall of about a meter, that came down as a result of water seeping because the gutters had not been cleaned. However, this cleaning is also the responsibility of the customer. Allow me to look to the future. Once we have made the Regie performant, which is the intention, then the Regie will have to make arrangements with the customers about such matters. If necessary, the Regie must also attract the maintenance of the buildings, for example at a certain fee. I assume that cleaning the gutters of the Justice Palaces is not one of the top priorities and may not even occur in the heads. Maybe the Regie should offer that service. Let us now ensure that we control what we are responsible for today. Once that's under control, I think the Regie should offer such a service to the customers. For customers who do not want to set up a separate service for this purpose, while paintwork and the maintenance of roof drains are still the responsibility of the customer, the Regie can provide this service. I will have the specific situation of the building in Oudenaarde checked, because at the moment I have no further information. Now I come to your questions about Dendermonde's prison. The construction of the new prison in Dendermonde is indeed being delayed for some years, which is the least we can say about it, as a result of a series of appeals against construction. Following the rejection by the Council of State of all claims on 23 October 2018 in both destruction proceedings against the third PRUP, two appeal proceedings are currently under way. A first procedure is directed against the urban permit access road with bridge. On 17 November 2016, the Licenses Board suspended the urban permit for the access road and bridge, as it is not compatible with the Old Dender Protection Decision. However, that protection decision was partially lifted by Ministerial Decision of 25 July 2017. A request for destruction was submitted by the opponents to the Council of State on 25 September 2018. Following the above suspension, an application for the destruction of the urban permit for the access road and the bridge was also submitted to the Council for Authorisation Disputes on 2 December 2016. Secondly, the town planning permit for the prison. As early as 29 August 2008, the Council for Authorisation Disputes rejected the application for suspension of the SBV prison in the absence of funds, but the application for destruction still needs to be dealt with by the Council. Finally, as regards the prison environmental permit, a petition for destruction of the prison environmental permit was submitted by both parties to the Council of State on 23 May 2017. This claim must also be dealt with. This implies that although the consortium currently has all the enforceable licences for the prison, the works on the northern access road and the bridge cannot be carried out further because of the suspension. As you can see, certain appeals procedures have been ongoing for some time and it is difficult to estimate the time limit for the treatment of the two councils in the relevant proceedings. However, now that the claims against the PRUP have been rejected, there is hope that this rejection judgment will act as a catalyst for the other appeal proceedings. As long as there is uncertainty about the current procedures, there is also no certainty about the effective start of the works and the entry into service of the new prison. The contract was signed in 2011. In the meantime, it was extended as they were always waiting for a ruling. However, the financial close with the removal of the swap and the interest rate risk will only take place if there is clarity about the date of the start of the works. As the financial close has not yet taken place, it is impossible at present to provide an appropriate cost of the expected fees. However, the Office of the Buildings has already incurred costs in the file. A distinction should be made between the normal or foreseeable costs, on the one hand, and the delay costs incurred by the professions concerned, on the other. With regard to normal costs, the purchase and cost of land amounted to EUR 825 000. The calculation fee for the DBFM procedure was EUR 800 000. The preparatory works, i.e. the sounding, the work of the architects and the utility lines, cost 121 000 euros. The cost of building the access road and bridge was 981,000 euros. Then there are the costs of the delay. There is compensation for the consortium of EUR 2.9 million. Work on the access road and the bridge cost 147 000 euros. Court costs amounted to 315 000 euros. The format of the EIA project cost EUR 61 000. The stockage of the bridge elements cost 78 000 euros. Together, this amounts to EUR 3.5 million. In the meantime, of course, the necessary works are being carried out to keep the old prison of Dendermonde operational. Important investment works are no longer on the agenda, but the following works were and will be planned in 2017 and 2018. In 2018, the total amount involved was EUR 96 585 for works carried out or under construction on security, namely the renewal of technical service windows and electricity adjustment in section 7. In 2017 it was a total of 378 605 euros for the repair of a transformer, the replacement of sanitary pipes, the replacement of low voltage plates, the replacement of kitchen appliances and the creation of a new emergency exit. However, we have good hopes that the work will begin soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u33	Minister, as far as the last part of your reply is concerned, have I heard correctly that the fees and interest rates are not included in the list you have read out?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u34	The 2.9 million euros to the consortium are the daily allowances...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u35	Yeah, that's the damages, but they were uploaded and now they're done. However, there are still the guard fees. How much are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u36	Those aren't included in the list.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u37	Okay, well, then I'll ask you at another time, unless you can tell me so. You also talked about compensation for a road and bridge settlement. Would you mind explaining that for me?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u38	It's about a deal with the manufacturer who made the bridge that hasn't yet been placed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-11-13-54-commissie-ic996x.u39	Okay, I wasn't entirely with you. As regards the procedures, the request for destruction to the Council of State on the PRUP has been definitively rejected. Therefore, there is today a legal basis for the delivery of an urban environmental or environmental permit, in so far as the existing permit is not destroyed by the Council for Authorisation Disputes. Do you know what the state of play of the procedure in the Council for Authorisations is? You said the suspension request was denied. The procedure for the destruction of the substance is still pending. However, when all the words and rebuttals have been exchanged, the rejection of the destruction of the legal basis of the PRUP comes too late and we must start again, which would be a pity. I hope it works out as soon as possible, finger's crossed. You did not say anything about the extension of the procedure. I understand that we are still waiting to see if we can close up soon and settle what we have to pay and then actually start building the prison. I fully agree that it is a crazy idea to do maintenance work. Where does maintenance end and where does the renewal of certain buildings and building parts begin? It seems logical to me if this is centralized. These people have the know-how. As for Oudenaarde, I took a picture after the ceiling had come down. The ceiling is integrated into the cell complex. That really wasn't a pretty sight. Fortunately, no one was buried under the debris. This has nothing to do with painting, but is clearly a result of water seeping. It makes no sense to plunder again when the ceiling then comes down again after new water drops.
