ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u1	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, under the previous legislature, your predecessor, Secretary of State Chastel had extended, as part of the administrative simplification policy, the Kafka contact point, which was responsible for receiving complaints about unnecessary administrative burdens. Where are we today? Is this contact point still functional? If so, how many complaints did it deal with during this Parliament? If not, what are the ways for citizens and businesses to pass on to the public authorities issues that can be simplified?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u2	Mrs Ben Hamou, I refer you to the answer I gave on 16 February last to the written question No 1229 by Mr Brecht Vermeulen. As a complement, I can still point out that, until last month, 22 Dutch-speaking reports – but no French-speaking complaints – had been registered by the website kafka.be. This site should disappear in the near future to give way to the new contact point Only Once. On the other hand, individuals and businesses will still be able to send their simplification proposals to the e-mail address: dav@première.fed.be or asa@première.fed.be.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, I will not fail to read the answer you have given to my dear colleague. I'll come back to ask you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u4	Mrs Ben Hamou, I can provide you with all the documents you want.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u5	As we know, the implementation of the Only Once principle within public administrations is an issue of importance for administrative simplification, both for the benefit of public authorities and users, which can thus dispense with unnecessary administrative costs. What is the status of the action plan launched on October 2, 2014? What elements of this plan are yet to be achieved? I thank you for the painting that you would like to draw from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u6	Mr Secretary of State, since 1 January 2016, with the implementation of the only-once legislation of 5 May 2014, all federal administrations have been obliged to re-use the available data and to fully equalise electronic and paper forms. In your policy paper of 19 October 2017, you underlined that the implementation of the only-once legislation is an important priority for the Administrative Simplification Service. One of the actions of the DAV is to promote data access and the use of authentic sources. At the moment, the National Register, the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises and authentic sources are used in the KSZ network. In addition, the DAV also provides for four support initiatives to promote implementation. The law laying down various provisions on administrative simplification is drafted and laws and numbered royal decrees are adapted to comply with the only-once principles. Together with the FOD BOSA, the digitisation of forms is promoted through the use of intelligent web forms. Additional data sources are also identified and re-use opportunities are evaluated. Finally, a only-once complaint form is made available to citizens and businesses. Mr Secretary of State, can you first of all state the state of play on the four points I have listed? If it has not yet happened, what is, secondly, the timing for the roll-out of support initiatives? Thirdly, has a progress report of the only-once implementation already been prepared by the DAV for 2018? If so, what were the main conclusions? Fourthly and finally, are the best practices of the social parastatal institutions which are virtually the rule with the only-once principle used for other public services that are less advanced in the process?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u7	Honourable members, I have asked my services to prepare a report on the status of the Only Once program and the remaining issues. This note will shortly be submitted for approval by the Council of Ministers and will contain, inter alia, a list of the Only Once projects carried out. Once this note has been approved by the Council of Ministers, I will certainly pass it on to you. The dossier is currently before the IF for advice. It will then be discussed at the Council of Ministers, subject to agreement on the budget. In order to speed up the digitisation of the form, a strategic cooperation was launched with the DAV, DG DT and FOD BOSA. The G-cloud service Intelligent Web Forms is used. This service allows the preparation of forms with data from authentic sources. To support this, the DAV has developed a tool that allows the savings potential associated with digitizing certain forms with IWF to be quantified. In its activities, the DAV draws the Federal Institutions' attention to the obligation to join and use the data available in the various authentic sources, using the services of the service integrators KSZ and Digital Transformation. This applies in particular to the buffer database in which information is kept which is often used as a basis for the automatic allocation of rights. The DAV also carries out strategic projects to further unlock authentic sources and make more active use of the G-cloud services useful for the implementation of the only-once principles, such as the Register as a Service application and the IWF module. A new hotline was launched on 15 June: www.simplification.be/onlyonce. This new site replaces the Kafkameldpunt. As the answer to previous questions shows, all initiatives relating to the only-once reporting point have been completed. On 15 June 2018, a note was prepared and approved by the Council of Ministers on the interim reporting of the only-once programme. The main conclusion of this progress report was that the implementation of the only-once law is difficult and slow. In order to speed up implementation, I proposed to the Council of Ministers to instruct the DAV to make its own proposals for simplifying and adapting regulations, forms and administrative procedures contrary to the only-once principles. We can indeed say that the only-once principle has already been implemented to a very large extent in the social sector and in the communication and support of the other public services. This brings to light that in the implementation of the only-once principles, the DAV regularly refers to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u8	Secretary of State, may I ask you to read your answers a little less quickly, because it is complicated for interpretation?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u9	Mr Secretary of State, in your introduction you said that a report would be submitted to the Council of Ministers. When exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u10	As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u11	Before or after the holidays?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u12	I hope it will be before.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u13	For the rest, I will read again and analyze your answers carefully because you were talking too fast. Then I will come back with other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u14	Madam President, Secretary of State, thank you for your answer, which was indeed technical, but nevertheless reveals a number of things. First of all, I have always wondered how it could have been possible for figures to be given each time of the savings made by the application of the Administrative Simplification Service. However, you have now referred to the tool that has been developed and in which the savings potential has been worked out in figures. The data will, of course, be largely theoretical. Nevertheless, they give an indication. Secondly, I have already heard the renewed hotline instead of kafka.be. Something else is important to me. Administrative simplification is a matter that will always continue. We used to think that we would solve all the Kafkaian situations very quickly and suddenly. Of course, that is not the case. You referred to the fact that implementation is difficult and slow in a number of areas. You've been honest about that. You have immediately added that you have made a number of proposals to the Council of Ministers to help those who are left behind and to include them in the story. That makes sense. We must, in the long term, specify very specifically which parts of the administration are left behind, what reasons might be behind them and how we can put them on the right track. If a few parts remain behind, there is a good chance that the whole will also work much slower and will not be efficient. That is, of course, the intention of Only Once and of administrative simplification. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u15	Questions Nos 25276 and 25355 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u16	Mr Secretary of State, no one in Stockem's structure questions the sparing management of public money or the decision to reduce the capacity of the host network, on the contrary. The 200 volunteers are, like the paid professional team, concerned about this, which is why Stockem's reception centre is the second cheapest in operating costs for the entire network of reception centres. The current capacity of 400 seats, plus 400 buffer seats, allows great flexibility and responsiveness, these 400 additional seats being ready for use immediately. This makes Stockem the reception center with the greatest capacity "tamp" in Belgium. In the event of closure, it seems to us that these assets would disappear. Mr Secretary of State, for you, does the criterion of seniority of a centre take precedence over cost control, potential economies of scale, successful social integration and local acceptance as well as a citizen mobilisation never achieved before? Would it not be wise to keep a reception capacity, even reduced, and buffer places in the south of the province of Luxembourg, knowing the low cost of operating the centre?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u17	Mr Piedboeuf, the Council of Ministers has decided on a plan to reduce the current network, which will be implemented in 2018. This plan includes only the closure of temporary reception centres that were opened during the crisis. If the occupancy rate continues to decline and there is no question of an increase in arrivals in the coming months, a further reduction in the reception network in 2019 is possible. Cost efficiency, quality of reception or geographical distribution may be criteria for deciding to reduce or close the capacity of some reception centres. Within the limits imposed by budgetary constraints, the Agency shall endeavour to have buffer places to ensure flexible reception. Priority will be given to the partners of the collective reception (federal reception centres in Fedasil, the Red Cross, Caritas, etc.).). Currently, there are not many unoccupied places in the reception network. In addition, discussions are ongoing with the Defence regarding the forecasting of buffer places in some barracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u18	Mr Secretary of State, you answer my question in part. But I understand what the government's interests and directions are. It may be regrettable, however, that insufficient consideration is given to the effective management of some. This is often the case in the province of Luxembourg, both in police and relief areas. The operation is less expensive than elsewhere because much more attention is being paid. If you could consider this centre, which is inexpensive, responsive and well integrated, with particular attention, it would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u19	I just got off the phone with Mrs. Lanjri. Yesterday, she was hit by a truck. She's going to the doctor now for a medical check-up. When Mrs De Coninck arrives, we will discuss how the combined oral questions can be put. I am still waiting for Mrs De Coninck's answer on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u20	Mr Secretary of State, at the beginning of March, I asked you about the announced closure of the reception centre for asylum seekers in Belgrade. The final closing date is now known; it would be the last day of October 2018. As a reminder, the centre in Belgrade currently hosts 300 asylum seekers and employs 35 people. In view of your last answers to my questions, I would like to ask you again, Mr. Secretary of State. Can you confirm this information? What solutions are envisaged for the relocation of the 300 asylum-seekers residing in the centre, given that the other centres in the network would then be overcapacity by 120% according to the Red Cross? What solutions are you considering for the 35 employees? Finally, I apologize for the fact that the following is not in the text originally sent, but it is information that appeared after my question was tabled. Apparently, there was a meeting with the Red Cross that would have submitted to you the idea of being able to continue to occupy some of the buildings in Belgrade to set up a logistics hub and a relief centre, but also a space offering training for asylum seekers and thus employment opportunities. What is your reaction to this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u21	Dear colleague, according to the current planning, the last residents will have to leave the centre of Belgrade-Namur at the end of September. It is planned that families with children in school will already leave during the school holidays. The Red Cross will have another month in October to return the centre's infrastructure to its original state. I don't know where you got the information that the occupancy rate would be around 120% in some centres. This information is not accurate. On 12 June, the centre of Belgrade was home to 210 people. The occupancy rate for collective places was 80.66 per cent, the occupancy rate for individual places was 60.6 per cent. Fedasil believes that there will be enough places available to relocate the occupants of central Belgrade. The Red Cross has contacted all relevant authorities to ensure that employees of the Belgrade centre are accompanied in their search for employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u22	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. You did not wish to answer me about the additional element that I have addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u23	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u24	I will file a written question. The information on the percentage comes from the Red Cross itself. I have already noted on many occasions my discontent and dismay at the closure of this centre, which is a great success in the Namur region. It does not pose any problems either politically or at the citizen level. It is a pity that this centre and all the dynamics it brought disappear. I will come back to you for the additional elements because the Red Cross proposal seems to me to be a good solution. I hope you will support her.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u25	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr Wouter De Vriendt's 25172 will be converted into written questions. Mr Benoit Hellings is not yet here, and that is why I give the floor to Mrs Barbara Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u26	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, very soon, on 1 July, Austria will take over the torch of the EU Presidency for six months. In this context, the Austrian Chancellor, Mr Kurz, has said several times in recent weeks that he will take advantage of this opportunity to put the cessation of illegal immigration into Europe at the top of the agenda. When I submitted my question, he had just given an interview to the German newspaper Die Welt in which he spoke very clearly. He referred to the compulsory quota system as unrealistic and, moreover, not a means of resolving the immigration crisis in Europe in the long term. He rightly reminded us that a country must be able to decide for itself the nature and amount of immigration it wants to allow. According to Mr Kurz, the debate on these compulsory quotas must finally be brought to an end and urgent action must be taken at the heart of the matter, in particular the protection of the European external borders. In this context, he also stated that the planned reinforcement of Frontex, up to 10 000 people, would have to be achieved much earlier than by the scheduled date, which is now set at 2027. Moreover, according to the Austrian Chancellor, Frontex needs a clear political mandate so that it can act effectively against illegal immigration. About what that should mean, he wasn't entirely clear. According to Kurz, Frontex employees must stop, take care of illegal immigrants at the external borders and then ideally return them immediately to their country of origin or transit. You yourself stated not so long ago that you are hoping for a shift in the asylum model and that, hopefully, after the European elections in 2019, Europe will opt for a completely new course. My question was somewhat overtaken by the facts, particularly the actions of Salvini in Italy. I therefore believe that we do not have to wait at all for the 2019 elections to change course. Furthermore, I believe that the Austrian Presidency offers an excellent opportunity to shape or support this change of direction in policy. I come to my questions, Mr Secretary of State. Can this government support Kurz' position and statements? If not, which points are and which are not? Why, according to this government, are these not good views? Do you and the Belgian Government support the Austrian Government in making the cessation of illegal immigration to Europe an absolute priority? Is the government prepared to support the early reinforcement and clear mandate of Frontex at European level? After submitting my question, it became clear that Austria has already sat with a number of countries, such as Denmark, and has been working on solutions. Will our government join the cart? Will you, for example, contact the Austrian Government in order to cooperate and find solutions in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u27	Mrs Pas, you are asking a very topical question. The Belgian Government will take a position in the coming days. The European summit will take place next week. I assume that the Prime Minister can go to that summit with a very clear position. Of course, there are a lot of contacts running. This is always the case on a subject such as migration. The Austrian Presidency is planning an informal JHA Council in Innsbruck on 11, 12 and 13 July. A number of issues will be on the agenda, including, of course, the approach to the migration story in the future. The key issues of the Austrian Presidency will be discussed there. I said a number of things in the European Council two weeks ago, and I look at what has happened since then. If these things are placed side by side, then with regard to the in-depth analysis that I made at the time and which I shared with the group, the context has changed at this time. I also had to come to the Chamber at the time, where I did not hear echoes in my name, but now I hear other things from far more important people at political level in Europe than I do. That's a statement I've been able to make for a few days. That's not the first time, but okay, we'll always be calm, we'll always be serene, won't we? So we will see how things continue in the next few hours and days. These are exciting times for the European migration model. In his reply in plenary, the Prime Minister said that protecting our external borders is crucial. Secondly, there must, of course, always be sufficient consideration within Europe for a balance between solidarity and responsibility. That's obvious. Thirdly, illegal migration is something we cannot tolerate. Illegal migration is as the word itself says against the law. We must certainly continue to work very actively on this. Much has already happened, but much more needs to be done. So let's wait and see. I am also very curious myself how this will end in the next few hours and days. There are draft conclusions that Mr Tusk explained yesterday, including in the media. They move a lot towards a story where illegal boat migration is promised in every possible way. There are still discussions and I understand that Mr Tusk will be in contact with a number of Heads of Government in the coming days. He's gonna be working on that today and he won't have done anything else last night. So we'll see how that goes.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u28	Mr Secretary of State, I haven't learned much from this. Apparently, a few days before this summit, you cannot say what attitude this government is going to adopt. You refer to the position you have taken. However, all the polemics in the Chamber were not in my name. This indicates that this was apparently not the view of the Belgian Government. What the Prime Minister has said does not go in the direction of the solutions that Austria is seeking. I am not interested in your personal position, I want to know what position this government is going to take. What will the Belgian Government do? Of course, that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u29	Mrs. Pas, you'll have to question the Prime Minister, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u30	Mr Secretary of State, it is always said that this government is one and indivisible. It's your jurisdiction...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u31	I have said that the position will be further defined.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u32	I can therefore ask for your opinion and the position that this government will take in your area of competence. That makes sense to me. I note with you that fortunately there is now a change in Europe. However, I would like to add that I heard you say the exact words on Friday in De Aangeling, and I forgot that you were proud that you were going to reduce the extreme right. That was one of your greatest achievements or something like that. Not that I am touched by the word extreme, but everyone knows what you mean, but I would like to remind you that the changes we see in Europe today are just by parties like ours, thanks to Lega in Italy, thanks to FPÖ in Austria and even thanks to the AfD in Germany. When I read today that the German CSU Minister for the Interior says Seehofer that we need a firmer migration policy to stop AfD, that is indeed to what you call those far-right parties, thanks to that change is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u33	Mrs. De Coninck, I've been informed by Mrs. Lanjri that she has to go on a doctor's visit today after a hit-and-run. She has informed me that you are free to ask the questions that were merged with hers. I'll leave that decision to you. However, I suggest that you let the other speakers go before you so that you can ask all your questions one after the other. (Applause from the left)
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u34	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it has already been since January 2017 that the newcomer declaration regime entered into force. There is a need for a cooperation agreement between the federal government and the Länder on the content of this declaration, but that appears to be a difficult delivery if I look at the notes of consultation committees and the like. The drafting of the cooperation agreement and the content of the newcomers' declaration has been discussed several times by the Consultation Committee, but it is clear that there is no consensus on this at all. I fear that some entities may impose a boycott, so that there will be no cooperation agreement signed by all entities and perhaps there will be no newcomer statement at all. Hence the following questions, Mr Secretary of State. Firstly, which meetings of the Consultation Committee dealt with this issue? Can you give an overview of the different points of view? Secondly, what is the current state of affairs? What are the prospects? Maybe in the meantime, a timing has been imposed. Thirdly, if this dossier continues to be blocked and there is no consensus, will you consider concluding asymmetric cooperation agreements with certain sub-groups, as the reports of the consultations between the Cabinets have shown?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u35	Mr President, Mrs Pas, this subject was discussed at the Consultative Committee on 28 March, 25 April and 30 May last, and it is also on the agenda of the meeting on 27 June. It was also addressed to the Consultation Committee of 25 January 2017 and of 28 June 2017. A text on which all the entities concerned agree is being prepared. If no compromise can be reached, other options can be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u36	Mr Secretary of State, I do not know if I should thank you for your answer, because I am not getting anything out of it. That the subject is on the agenda, that's what I was there for. There will have to be a number of options, as everyone has already done, but you could at least say that you would present a timing and that asymmetric cooperation agreements will be concluded if no consensus is reached. After the meeting on 27 June, I shall once again ask for a state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u37	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, it appears that information about the migration route of the Mawda family has been disseminated to journalists and has been transmitted to your party president. For example, on 24 May, the newspaper of the Sudpress group stated that the family had registered in Germany, had tried several times to join Great Britain and had been intercepted while on the run in a cold truck. It was this last anecdote that allowed your party president, Bart De Wever, to declare, in essence, that these parents were irresponsible since they had already dared to transport their child in a cold truck one day. Mr Secretary of State, could you please tell me what the rules are for the dissemination of information contained in personal files held by the Office of Foreigners? Could this information be passed on to the press and, in this case, to a party president? Is it you or a member of your firm who forwarded this information to the press and Bart De Wever? Are these documents, in whole or in part, classified within the meaning of the 1998 Act? Could you tell me who has access to these personal files, except for the officials of the Office of Foreigners who manage them? What does the political exploitation of this confidential information inspire you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u38	Mr Secretary of State, Mrs De Coninck has just informed me that the questions under item 11 are also about the Mawda case and what is said about it in the press. Can we put these questions together or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u39	Mr President, I have two questions on agenda item 11. That last question is basically about the same thing. It's weird that I have to repeat that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u40	She might have been added wrong. I suggest that you answer your question. 26184 the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u41	Mr President, that would make more sense. Debates of the European Parliament 11 consists of three questions, one from Mrs Lanjri and one from me, but a supplementary question from myself was added, which in fact is more in line with Mr Hellings' question. That is why it would be more logical to ask that question now.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u42	However, I suspect that the answer is compressed for the three questions. So I suggest you ask both questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u43	Mr Secretary of State, over the last few weeks, there have been several dossiers relating to the precarious residence status of a number of people. We have seen some of the details of this in the press. The file of Mawda's family appeared in detail in Sudpresse's newspapers. For example, we read all about the previous journey of Mawda's parents, including the previous interception in a refrigerator truck. During the previous committee meetings, the argument of the secret of the investigation was always protected in order not to provide any further information. In this way, we did not even know what could justify why Mawda's parents were not allowed to go to the hospital, nor why the parents were informed only one day after the death of their child. If this government is really serious about the secret of the investigation, it must also ensure that personal data from files does not just appear in the press. Mr Secretary of State, you quote in De Zondag without any hesitation from the letter of the 16-year-old Kosovar girl Djellza. She would have written to you that she doesn't even like her brothers. In De Seventhe Dag you will also tell us that Mawda's parents had requested an exemption from the 350 euro fee for their regularization application. That is why I have the following questions. First of all, what is your opinion on the fact that Mawda's parents' file, including their trajectory, the earlier interception in a refrigerator truck and that's more, ended up in the press? Was that investigated further? Have you commissioned such an investigation? What was the result? Secondly, would it be justified in your opinion to quote from Djellza's clear personal letter? Thirdly, why did you tell us about the request for exemption from the fee? Why are you releasing that data? Fourthly, for the rest, I would like to know the state of play regarding the granting of residence status to the Mawda family. There was another question about the Mawda case itself. Very important is that in De Morgen it was stated that three unaccompanied minors were still in the van and that they disappeared. At the plenary session of 26 April 2018, I asked you about the reception of unaccompanied minors and the high number of minors missing. You pointed out to me that the succession of these minors is a task of the Justice Department, more specifically of the Voogdij Service. You also claimed that the high number of missing persons were not linked to poor registration. In fact, you claimed that the registration has never been so good. Nevertheless, we have to learn that all three minors in the van have gone wrong. After the incident, the kids put the rest of the people in the van in jail. Neither the Voogdij or specialized centres were contacted by the police in Bergen. According to you, the Foreign Office has been contacted and has delivered the necessary documents to the police. Nevertheless, we are told that one of the minors, a 14-year-old boy, was again in Dunkirk after a few days. The other minor has meanwhile been moved to the French specialized center of Saint-Omer. One boy is still missing to this day. What's being done to find that missing boy? What will happen to those other two minors? Both boys found were found by the Belgian aid organisation Humain. This means, in fact, that they can be an important added value in the active follow-up of minors. Are you currently working actively with the organisations active in the refugee camps? In what way? What procedures are used? If not, are you planning to do so in the future? At the plenary session of 26 April, I proposed a priority action plan for the government as a whole on the case of missing unaccompanied minors. How are you looking at this idea now? How are you going to improve communication between the different services to ensure that this is not repeated in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u44	Mr President, first of all I would like to stress that there is a judicial inquiry into the events in the Mawda case. It is therefore important to await the findings of the investigation. Mawda's parents' file was first published in an article in Sudpresse's newspapers on May 24, 2018. I've only heard that from the newspaper. If you want more information about this, you should ask the journalist how he got that information. The information doesn't come from me, anyway. I also note that the family concerned recently explained their story extensively in De Morgen. Again, it is not up to me as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration to instruct an investigation. It's up to the police and the justice system to conduct a judicial investigation. In Djellza's file, it was also those involved who sought out the media. I have therefore only replied to these messages. Her brother even made threats to me. That's an old file, but that's how it turned out, maybe you remember that. All this was widely discussed in the media and my statements were therefore nothing more than a response to this report. The payment of a fee when submitting a residence application is also by definition public, as the law applies to everyone and it is an administrative decision. I believe that I have also replied correctly. Every service has its part to play. Before I go into more detail about the role that each service plays when the police intercepts a foreigner on the territory, it is important to realize that only the identification of a adult stranger deserves the DVZ. When a person declares himself to be an unaccompanied minor stranger, it is the authority of the Voogdij Department to identify this person as an unaccompanied minor stranger. You know that the Voogdij service falls under the FPS Justice Department. This is therefore the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. When the police intercept a stranger, they inform the DVZ, to see if this person is known to the DVZ. This is done through the so-called administrative report. If the person declares himself a minor, this is mentioned in the administrative report and one does not prove otherwise, the person concerned is the responsibility of the Voogdij department. The Department of Foreign Affairs also informs the police. The Foreign Affairs Department provides them with the description sheet to be filled out for unaccompanied minors and an instruction to the police to contact the Voogdij Department and to send the completed minors' file simultaneously to the Voogdij Department and the Foreign Affairs Department. It is not for the Foreign Office to provide interpreters for police operations. Once the document has been delivered to the Voogdij department, the Voogdij department will identify unaccompanied minors and the Voogdij department will have to take care of the minors, as provided for in Article 6 (2) of the law on custody. The transfer to a specialised centre is the responsibility of the Voogdij service, which will organise transport. The instructions sent are therefore sufficiently clear as they indicate the steps to be followed. If a note is necessary to remind you of what has already been reported for each individual case, I am certainly prepared to cooperate with the Minister for the Interior. Now I come to the questions about the task force on disappearances and unaccompanied minors. I took the initiative to set up a task force. The Task Force was set up to bring together all relevant partners in the field and to evaluate current practices regarding disappearances and unaccompanied minors. The members of the task force are staff of the Cabinets-Genes, -Jambon and -Francken, the federal and local police, the parquet, the Foreign Affairs Service, Fedasil, the CGVS, the Voogdij and Child Focus. Within the Task Force, it has been agreed that work will focus on a national extension of the 2008 protocol on the disappearance of unaccompanied minors, as that protocol will now only apply between the OOCs, abbreviation for Orientation and Observation Centres, i.e. the reception initiatives for unaccompanied minors, and the local police in Brussels. There will also be a section on prevention to be added to the protocol, so that we can even better prevent the disappearance of unaccompanied minors. In addition, it was agreed to amend the 2013 Council of State Protocol on the registration of minor non-asylum seekers, in view of the widespread abuse by transmigrants who often declare themselves underage to enjoy the benefits of the status of unaccompanied minors, such as the impossibility of being locked up. In the interests of any unaccompanied minor stranger, it is crucial to safeguard the specific status of unaccompanied minor aliens from abuse. The follow-up of the disappearances and therefore the detection of unaccompanied minors is a competence of the Justice Department. The fact that the police only contact the Foreign Affairs Office results from the fact that the permanence of the Voogdij service is difficult to reach in the off-peak hours, while the permanence of the Foreign Affairs Service is accessible. However, the law of custody provides for a permanence, 24 hours and 7 days on 7 days, in the Voogdij service. On the premises, however, only the permanence of the Foreign Office is known, which is operational 24 hours a day and 7 days a day. In order to improve the registration of unaccompanied minor foreigners in our country, we need to consider whether it would be better for the identification of all foreigners to be covered by a single competent service. The fact that the identification of self-declared unaccompanied minor foreigners is a competence of the Voogdij service, but that the Voogdij service should now fully rely on the DVZ, reduces efficiency and is ultimately detrimental to the optimal protection of all unaccompanied minor foreigners. In connection with the file itself, the family's regularization application is currently being examined by my administration. That is the latest state of affairs. We will take a decision on this in the coming weeks after consultation in the government, as I have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u45	Mr Secretary of State, I shall begin with a comment on the form of your answers: you speak so fast in Dutch that I cannot understand you and I am sorry to the poor translators who have to translate your words so quickly. I didn't understand everything. Maybe we should talk more slowly. Mr Secretary of State, with regard to the case of Mawda, we will have to wait for the results of the investigation under way by the Prosecutor's Office, which, according to your colleague from the Interior, is in conjunction with that of the P Committee. The information that one day Mawda's parents moved with their child in a cold truck is extremely documented. She unquestionably marries the image of Mawda's parents, and this while they are in mourning. It is, in my view, deeply unacceptable. You or the Foreign Office have at some point disclosed crucial information. That would at least deserve an investigation. Investigations have been initiated in the administrations for much less than that. I note that either you or the Foreign Office, or the members of your cabinet, are more inclined to pass on glaucous information such as this to your party president or the press than to provide us with clear statistics. I am thinking of the fraud of nationality - remember - or the average number of multiple asylum applications, which I have asked you and to which I have not yet received an answer. Yesterday, by the way, you answered one of my written questions asked two and a half years ago! It is time today to give priority to Parliament rather than to the press or your party president.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u46	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. Of course, you answer very formally about the sources and I think I should actually ask the press. I know of other files in which people have been looking very hard for the leak to end up acting against that person. I know you as someone who works results-oriented, is very direct and brings things into focus. I would like you to do the same for the registration and better reception of minor refugees. I know that there are different competences in this area, but if we criticize Europe and European migration policy, then we must not ignore the problems that exist here with the registration and reception of minors. There is also abuse of the statute. I have no problem recognizing this. We note that many young people are still slipping between the meshes of the net and are not being protected. I'm really upset about that. I am very concerned about this because I know that a lot of these young people are being abused in many ways. I'm thinking prostitution, but I'm also afraid of organ transplants. I believe that this dossier is greatly underestimated. I would therefore ask all members of the government to step up their efforts, including the Minister of Health, and to set up a registration system.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u47	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, on 24 April, I asked you in committee for information on the announced closure of the refugee centre at the Saint John barracks in Tournai. As a reminder, this decision was taken without consultation with the Red Cross, which is the operator who runs various centres on a daily basis, including the one in Tournai. In your reply, you told me that effectively, the closure schedule was being prepared with the Red Cross and that a gradual reduction planning of residents would be established. This planning involves, as a first step, stopping the designation of first arrivals to the reception structure, then, in a second step, the natural departure of the welcomed residents and finally, the organization of their transfer to another reception centre. In addition, in response to my question about the money invested in the centre, you explained to me that from 2015 to 2017 included, the cost of the Tournai reception centre was about 14 million euros. Here are my questions: Could you tell me what the agencies that financed these 14 million euros are or are? After closing, should the building be restored to its condition? The Red Cross has recently been informed that the centre will have to close on 31 October next. Do you confirm that date? How can you ensure that the children who are currently in the Saint John Centre will not be impacted on their school journey? Can you ensure that families will be transferred in July/August so that the school cycle is not broken? What criteria have been used to select the centres that will close? When will the transfer of candidate refugees from Tournai start to the other centres? To which centres will they go? How will the choice of the new centre be made? Will he be part of the same network? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u48	The honourable Member will find the answer to his question below. Fedasil is the funding agency for the costs of receiving applicants for international protection. Currently, the partner is responsible for the restoration to the original condition of the building. When closing, the partner must meet with the owner to agree on the precise terms and arrangements for the delivery of the building. Following the decision of the Council of Ministers, Fedasil has drawn up a plan to close the centres concerned with the reception partners. According to the current schedule, the last residents of the centre of Tournai are expected to leave the centre before 30 September. The Red Cross will then have an additional month to return the centre to its original state. For families with children attending school, a departure is planned during the summer holidays, in order to ensure their enrolment in a school close to their new reception facility. The plan to reduce the reception network decided by the Council of Ministers includes only the closure of temporary centres opened during the crisis. Transfer planning is currently under way. These transfers will begin in July and the selection of the centre will be based on the availability of places and possible specific needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u49	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. There is, however, one thing that I have not understood correctly. You said the Red Cross should restore the building. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u50	Fedasil is the funding agency for the costs of receiving applicants for international protection. Currently, the partner is responsible for the restoration of the building in its original condition.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u51	It will therefore be rehabilitated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u52	Mrs. Lanjri is sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u53	Mr Secretary of State, it has been a few months since the Commissioner-General issued his report on the crisis surrounding the Sudanese returned and the prior identification mission. Among other things, that report found that Article 3 of the ECHR was not properly reviewed. Since then, a follow-up committee has been set up and as Secretary of State you have promised several times change and better scrutiny. On 10 February, you said in De Standaard that for five Sudanese people already on the journey of return, additional checks were made to ensure that Article 3 is not infringed. Mr Secretary of State, what has changed since the publication of the report with the recommendations in the repatriation procedure or what do you wish to change in the future? How is Article 3 currently being reviewed for persons who do not apply for asylum? What are the major difficulties in this respect and what are the major differences in the procedure for whom and who has not applied for asylum? How many cases are there when it has been decided that, on the basis of Article 3, people cannot be sent back? Then what happens to those people?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u54	Mrs De Coninck, the working method was adapted in line with the recommendation of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons to the DVZ to investigate Article 3 in greater detail. Similarly, the findings of the RVV that the right to hear should be respected are met before the DVZ takes a decision. The review provided for in Article 3 shall apply to any person for whom the DVD receives a report of administrative control. If there are doubts or doubts about the risk of infringement after the arrest, another questioning should be carried out. The staff concerned were trained to apply the procedure correctly and, if necessary, the interview takes place in the presence of an interpreter. The person concerned shall be heard as soon as possible, but that shall depend on the availability of the interpreter. Since it is an administrative questioning and there is no question of an interrogation in criminal proceedings, the presence of a lawyer is neither required nor foreseen. Mr President, I have already given a comprehensive reply to a question to Benoit Hellings in committee on 25 April. This is simply the translation into Dutch. I'll come back to the answer. The person concerned shall sign the interview and may always request a copy. The lawyer of the data subject may always request his file for the purposes of transparency of the public administration. Nevertheless, new elements or new evidence may be added to the file at any time. The person concerned may apply for asylum at any time at the centre. As already mentioned in the CGVS report, any foreigner detained in a closed centre is informed of this. If the interview shows that the person concerned fears his return, within the meaning of an infringement of Article 3, the asylum procedure may be initiated. The CVGS will have to deal with the asylum procedure before repatriation. The asylum procedure is the most appropriate procedure to investigate that fear and offers most procedural guarantees. Apart from the persons who applied for asylum in a centre, a possible breach of Article 3 was found in one person. His file was delivered to the CGVS that the data subject granted the protection status. I can also inform you that, pursuant to the Paposhvili versus Belgium judgment, for each person detained for removal, it is also being checked whether Article 3 of the ECHR is being respected in the light of a medical problem. The foreseeable medical consequences for the person concerned shall be assessed if he suffers from a disease in which the lack of treatment poses a imminent risk of death or a serious, rapid and irreversible deterioration of the state of health would result in serious suffering or a serious reduction in life expectancy. It is therefore examined whether there is a threat of death or a risk of inhuman or degrading treatment due to inadequate or inadequate treatment in the country of origin, or the country of destination. I can tell you that this approach has increased the workload of all the bodies involved. It can already be indicated that this method will prolong the time limits for fixing, as the person concerned may appeal against any new decision. The identification procedure may not start until the examination of Article 3 has been completed. We have also requested a legal opinion from the European Commission on this. We are now waiting for the Commission's legal service to say what it is going to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u55	Mr Secretary of State, you describe the procedure in your reply. What I asked for is whether, now that there is a committee, there are any changes. If I have understood your explanation correctly, an interpreter can be called in case of emergency for translation and therefore for better communication. The fact that the workload has been increased also means that more is being done. There are probably no more customers, but they are doing a more thorough and quality research, which was also the recommendation of the Commissioner. It may be difficult, but I had also asked for figures. How many refugees have not been returned on the basis of Article 3? What's happening to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u56	I replied to that, namely one person.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u57	So your answer is one person?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u58	I replied to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u59	I didn't hear that answer. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u60	In addition to the persons who applied for asylum at the centre, a possible breach of Article 3 was found in one person and his file was delivered to the CGVS, which granted the data subject protection status.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u61	What protection status are we talking about? Was he just recognized as a refugee?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u62	It concerns one of the two protection statuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u63	Mr Secretary of State, when discussing the draft law amending the law of 15 December 1980 on entry to the territory, residence, establishment and so on, you said that a new KB would be provided for the so-called alternatives to detention for asylum seekers. My questions are as follows: what is the status of this Royal Decree? When will this be ready and possibly enter into force? Would it be purely a KB analogue to the Royal Decree of 8 October 1981? Will new forms of alternative detention be created? If so, which one? What budget is foreseen? In what way will it be ensured that these alternatives are chosen at their maximum? What practice is being followed now, while the KB is not there yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u64	Mr President, Mr Franken, in an exchange of letters, the Office of the Commissioner encourages Belgium to invest further in alternative procedures to detention rather than to reverse in the field, on which your answer remains silent. What is the budget for return homes and how has it evolved during this legislature? How many places does the return home system count and to what extent has this number increased during this legislature? In this volume, what is the share for which investment decisions have been made under this government and not under the authority of your predecessor in the office? Finally, what staff is available for these return homes and how is it distributed among the settlements?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u65	The KB is in the design phase and a number of choices still have to be made. It is difficult to predict when it will be ready and enter into force. The Royal Decree will amend the Royal Decree of 8 October 1981. So it's not a separate KB. Your answer to question 2 is yes, but referring to the answer to question 1, I cannot yet give an answer. The budget will depend on the choices that will be made. The law provides a sufficiently clear guarantee for this. Incarceration of an asylum seeker is a last resort. Remediation is not the right word, it is the last means of action which can only be applied for the purposes set out in the law, Article 74, 6°, § 1. Mrs Fernandez, the budgets used for return homes are as follows: in 2017, €299,000; in 2016, €478,000; in 2015, €347,000.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u66	Mr Secretary of State, in order to avoid having to enumerate all the figures, I propose that you give me the text of your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u67	In my overview, we mention the number of houses in 2016 and 2017. A house burned down at the end of 2016 in Sint-Gillis-Waas. The surrounding houses were decommissioned by firefighters because there was no certainty as to their stability. During this period, the Foreign Office had 26 houses. At the end of June 2017, the houses referred to above were again put into service. Since then, 28 houses have been operational. During this legislature, a house was opened in 2015 in Sint-Gillis-Waas and two houses in Beauvechain in 2016. There are nine return coaches (two per site). Zulte and Tielt sites are considered to be a single site. A coach is flexible and can intervene in support. The 2017 budget amounts to 299,000 euros. So we can see a decrease. This is due to the fact that family confinement is no longer a priority. Indeed, today, priority is given to migrants in transit who want to join England. In any case, the number of families locked up has greatly decreased, which is probably not to displease you. But this is a matter of circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u68	If I understand correctly, in 2017 you included fewer families for return because you were prioritizing transit migrants. Are you saying that this will be treated as a priority in 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u69	I didn't bring the 2018 figures. The priority is the whole issue of transit migration, and that remains so as long as we are confronted with it. Yesterday, unfortunately, another person died in Brussels. This remains a very acute political problem. I certainly didn't order more families to be locked up, if that's your question. I didn't specifically order fewer families to be locked up in 2017. I did say that transit migration is the priority. We must continue to work hard on this because it is getting out of hand. Just think of Brussels-North, the Maximilian Park, Zeebrugge, the parkings in West Flanders, and so on. An indirect consequence of this is, of course, that not everything can be dealt with as a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u70	Perhaps you should talk to Great Britain?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u71	I already have. I went there with Jan Jambon. We're working on that. However one turns or turns, it is not so obvious to talk someone who has already travelled 8 000 kilometres out of his mind to do that last 30 kilometres. They are already mentally in Great Britain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u72	And Britain won't answer them?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u73	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u74	They don't want to belong to a club, but the rest of the club must stop these migrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u75	Okay, but it's something completely different to actively help people to travel illegally in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u76	Secretary of State, I have not understood well whether the three houses that were opened were opened at the initiative of this government or the previous government. I understand that there are families, and that it is not your will, but we are still opening a wing for families in a closed centre. But we are not going to start this debate on this issue. I think we will come back to that later. One might also wonder why these houses should be reserved for families. We might also be able to house other people there, instead of putting them in closed centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u77	I said that during this legislature, one house was opened in 2015 and two houses in 2016. I'll give the numbers. We have 28 houses for now, and 9 coaches. But with regard to the closed centres that we are going to open and their capacity, there is a problem. We have not locked up families with children since 2008 or 2009. We wondered what we should do then. The previous government has worked on leads, in the legal context of forced returns. We created turtelhuisjes. The effectiveness of these turtelhuisjes – which are "open" apartments – has diminished in recent years because the families expelled leave them one or two days before they have to fly. Only in cases where a family, which has not accepted voluntary return and has exhausted all the remedies and procedures, does it not agree to go to these apartments that there is a possibility to lock it up in order to organize a forced return. I hope this happens very rarely.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u78	Mr Secretary of State, in view of the figures you give me and the reading of the various reports, I note that the effectiveness of turtelhuisjes has diminished under this government. I understand that family confinement is an exception, but I wonder if the fairly large budget that has been allocated to this closed wing would not have been more useful for improving the quality of management. I can imagine that it must be difficult to work with families in despair who aim to leave a country where they have no future, but I really think that the budget devoted to the creation and operation of this closed wing could have been used to improve the supervision in these houses.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u79	Mr Secretary of State, I have already referred in one of my previous questions to the Permanent Committee for the follow-up of the expulsion policy for foreigners. I have a number of very specific questions about this. What is the legal basis of the follow-up committee? Is there another KB or something? Is there an expiry of the term of office at the follow-up committee? If so, how long has that mandate been and how has that decision been reached? What is the final composition of the committee? How many meetings have there been? What's the status? Is there any internal regulations? Where can we find that? Is there a secretariat and is there a reimbursement and expenses scheme? Has it been decided in one way or another what the follow-up committee will be able to decide on and what its remit is? What further timing will be maintained? How will the Chamber be kept informed, for example through an annual report?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u80	Ms De Coninck, the committee was established through a declaration of founding and with the implementation of the Federal Government's declaration of 9 February 2018. However, Article 7 of the Declaration of Establishment is further developed through a Royal Decree. These are the rules governing the allowances of the members of the committee. The committee was set up for a term of two years and is chaired by a professor-emeritus of a Belgian university. Dat is professor Bossuyt. In addition, the Committee consists of the following members: the Director-General of the DVZ, the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police, the Inspector-General of the General Inspection of the Federal Police and the Local Police, the Director-General of Fedasil, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, a representative of the Belgian Pilot Association, a representative of the public or public air carrier holding a valid operating licence, as provided for in Regulation EC/1008/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2008 on common rules for the operation of air services in the Community, issued by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Aviation of the FPS Mobility and Transport. Meetings took place on 9 March, 20 April and 25 May. The next meeting was scheduled for 29 June. There is no internal regulations, but there is a secretariat. The fees and expenses are regulated in the Royal Decree, which is currently under design. So it has not yet been signed and not yet in force. With regard to your question on the commission's mandate, I refer to Article 1 of the declaration of formation. That's up to the chairman. You should also ask him the question about timing. The committee shall draw up a report on the performance of its tasks at regular intervals and, in particular, an interim report containing recommendations within the year. Mr Bossuyt was also present at our CoTer meeting. We have a CoTer meeting every two or three months, which stands for Coordination Return. All relevant cabinets and services are represented. This concerns the Cabinets of Justice, Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs and Defence. That's very extensive. This is about everything that has to do with return. We have different working groups, and those meetings are actually going very well. We try to work on this multidisciplinaryly with the various cabinets. In the area of justice, for example, very intensive work is being carried out on the return of prisoners. For the Foreign Office, it is about readmission agreements and diplomatic relations. I'm chairing those meetings with Bruno Franckx. I believe that it is best for me to be present at all times. They're always good meetings. Last time we invited Professor Bossuyt. You have to ask him yourself, of course, but I have the impression that he is very intense about the committee and takes it very seriously anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u81	Mr Secretary of State, that is very important, and improvements can always be made. I believe that Mr Bossuyt is a serious man who takes his work seriously. However, I suspect that the committee mainly consists of white men, because the subject is considered rather operational from a security point of view. Perhaps we should consider how we can achieve more diversity in order to increase acceptance.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u82	For the sake of completeness, I would like to say that Professor Bossuyt was once my professor at the University of Antwerp for international law. I thought he was a very serious man. He was pretty much the only one I was afraid of in the exams.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u83	Mr Secretary of State, on 13 June an extensive article was published in Knack on the situation of people against whom an Article 1F was issued. According to the article, 188 asylum seekers have been excluded from refugee status in Belgium since 2011 in accordance with Article 1F. Of course, that makes sense, because of course we do not want to give perpetrators the same protection as victims. However, because these people have genuinely justified fears of being persecuted in their own country, Belgium cannot send them back to their own country. This puts Belgium in a difficult situation and places it in a legal limbo, which often leads to illegality. Mr Secretary of State, I have a few questions about this. Just so we're clear, I don't think it's an easy subject. Firstly, what is the procedure, once Article 1F is pronounced against an asylum seeker? Secondly, the ruling of an Article 1F is not criminal because it falls under the right of asylum. Therefore, only serious suspicion is needed in order to apply the article. Which tools does DVZ use to reach that conclusion? Thirdly, some of the asylum seekers concerned may still be dangerous for Belgian society. To what extent does the Aliens Office keep records of, among other things, the location of those persons, once it was decided to initiate the article? In other words, is there a follow-up after the decision to apply 1F? Fourthly, if an asylum seeker stays in Belgium after the invocation of Article 1F, will his status be reviewed over time, if the danger to society is no longer so great and will there be some sort of amnesty? Fifthly, what are your views on alternatives to those excluded asylum seekers, such as the granting of a residence permit under strict conditions, not granting them asylum, but preventing them from entering illegality?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u84	Mrs De Coninck, I would like to say in advance that the 188 decisions to exclude the refugee status of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons, referred to in the article in Knack, are not necessarily final decisions, since the applicant can appeal to the RVV for international protection. The effective number of exclusion decisions will therefore be lower. After all, the RVV will disagree with some cases. An order to leave the territory is being taken. It is estimated whether the person concerned may be a threat to public policy. It takes into account whether or not there is a non-return clause. CGVS may withdraw a status, but at the same time add a non-return clause. So basically it says CGVS: you can't send it back. On the basis of the legislation, I have to withdraw his status, and I will, but I cannot send him back to the country of origin. Thousands of 1Fs are out there all over Europe. That's been a big problem for years. A genocidary from Rwanda who has fled and been recognized, and who later finds himself a genocidary before the Criminal Court in The Hague, gets the status 1F. He is excluded from asylum, but one cannot send him back to Rwanda, because that would be a violation of Article 3. Such a person cannot be sent back, and that person then resides illegally on the territory. There are many of them. This has already been a problem for the previous governments. Angela Merkel and Mark Rutte have also complained a few times about this. But there's no solution. The law states that a third country can be sought. I believe that this has happened once in the past. I am not entirely sure, but if I am not mistaken, the government of that country fell over it when it came out. That's an urban legend. You'd better find out. I'm just saying, find yourself a country that wants to take someone like that in. Perhaps one can find a country, but if one sends that person there, it must also pass the review of Article 3. For the sake of clarity, one cannot just send him to a dictatorship. The RVV won't let you. It is not the DVZ but the CGVS that decides to exclude refugee status. There is indeed a difference between a criminal conviction and an administrative decision to exclude refugee status. In order to take a decision to exclude refugee status, the conditions necessary to arrive at a criminal conviction should not necessarily be fulfilled. However, there are very strict conditions for taking the decision on exclusion. Only if there are very serious indications can the decision to exclude be taken. These indications are obtained on the basis of the applicant's statements, as well as on the basis of investigations and information on the crimes committed in the country of origin. The burden of proof lies with the CGMS. It is by definition impossible to keep track of illegal immigrants who are in hiding. The decision to exclude is based on serious evidence of crimes committed in the country of origin, which do not necessarily endanger national security in Belgium, the country of arrival. In a limited number of cases, exclusion decisions are taken because the visitor is associated with terrorism. In all cases, both the intelligence services and the public prosecutor shall be informed of the exclusion decisions so that they can succeed those persons. A distinction should be made between certain categories. A genocide bomber, for example, does not concern a matter of national security for Belgium, because it will not, of course, start genocide here. However, if it is someone convicted of terrorism or a returned Syrian warrior, there have been so many cases with Moroccans often in the news and with an OCAD threat level three, then they are dangerous, but I can't get them away to Morocco either. That's a whole other story, and there's gonna be another suit like this, because these guys are all gonna get out in the next few months. A distinction should be made between a decision to exclude a person on the basis of Article 1f of the Convention on Refugees and a decision to exclude him because of a danger to national security. It is therefore not the case that a person for whom a decision to exclude is taken on the basis of Article 1F is automatically considered to be a danger to national security. I see no reason to grant a right of residence to persons who were excluded from a protection status for very important reasons. The fact that, in the case of a non-return clause, our country is not immediately in a position to assign the person concerned to his country of origin is no reason to grant him or her a right of residence. The person concerned may also voluntarily return to his country or to a third country. You're not suggesting we give them their papers, are you?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u85	No. The problem is that those concerned cannot be deported, but that they do not receive residence status.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u86	Those people have been very hard hit. They're not just people like you and me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u87	Yes, but there are almost 200 such cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u88	For the sake of clarity, those 200 people do not all have a non-refusal clause; this applies only to a small part of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u89	How many people is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u90	I don't have that information right now. However, one does not automatically have a non-refusal clause when one gets a decision based on Article 1F. For the record, we have already been able to send such persons back. Those people were given an exclusion decision on the basis of Article 1F for fraud or danger to national security and we were then able to send them back. So it's not 188 people. That group is smaller. Those terrorists from Morocco and the Syrian fighters I'm talking about have never mentioned status. This is done on the basis of the intertwined foreign law, which I believe you voted against. Those concerned do lose their right of residence, but they have never had the right of residence on the basis of refugee status, for example, they were born here, so that is another category.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u91	Mr Secretary of State, especially the fact that some were born here makes it problematic. If they were born here, we cannot avoid our responsibility. It is true that we can make a division according to terrorism or genocide. Suppose there are such persons here, who are covered by the provisions of Article 1F, but they cannot be returned. So they're actually in illegality here. Can we not then decide to follow them up and give them the opportunity, after several years, to re-apply, at that point in time, to look at what route they have been going through here? I'm afraid it's never a good thing to push people into illegality. Either we have to tell them, or we have to work with them if they are to stay in Belgium in one way or another. I understand that you respond more strictly to such people and do not immediately give them residence documents or an indefinite status with possibilities. However, I do not think it is okay to leave people in illegality until their death, without any chance of integration. This is a difficult story. If it means that those involved have to live here illegally, then we must be consistent and remove them from our country, but that is not possible. So we have to do something with them here.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u92	Mrs. De Coninck, I understand that the left is always looking for a victim function. I also understand, when you talk about children's pardon, that good work can be done in this respect. But, with all due respect, now we are talking about people who are covered by the procedure contained in Article 1F, which is the most important procedure in existence. In many cases, they are criminals who have been convicted of very serious crimes. In my view, these people aren't victims, they're perpetrators. Do these people have to stay here? They shouldn't stay here at all. No one's forcing them to stay here. They're here illegally. They're getting a warrant to leave the territory. There is no obligation to remain in illegality in Belgium for the rest of their lives. They can go back or live elsewhere, which I believe is doing a lot. I am not sure, but it does not seem to me impossible that this will happen. Moreover, after a number of years, these persons can now submit a request for regularisation for humanitarian reasons on the basis of Articles 9a or 9b of the current law. Have we had any such files? I don't know; I should check. It certainly doesn't mean anything to me. Anyway, strictly legal, that's all possible. You say that we need to look into this, but we can do that already. If that's what they want, they can file a 9a application, and then my administration will look at it. You feel like these people are all stuck up and can't go back. We cannot actively send them back, but they can go back. If they take a plane ticket and fly back to Morocco, they'll be back in Morocco in a few days. That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u93	I didn't say that. You're interpreting again now. We simply need to act consistently. Convicted war criminals must, of course, be returned to the country where they were convicted.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u94	But what if they served their time?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u95	Not always, apparently.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u96	A lot of times.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u97	Many weren't even convicted. For many there is only a suspicion that they have something on their mind. That is why they find themselves in a legal vacuum, especially when it comes to genocide. I don't have a ready-made solution. I only read an article about that in Knack. I thought it was a weird system. These are people falling between chairs. Eventually, they can't build a life. You're sighing again. But you must make a consistent decision on this. I have no problem with them being sent to prison, if there's a good reason and if there's a conviction. Let me be clear: I do not wish to condone. It is a question of developing a sustainable solution for those involved in our society with a certain status. It could be that we put them in jail, or in an alternative. We need to investigate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u98	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Olivier Maingain's 25844 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u99	Mr Franken, last May, you accepted the Netherlands' donation of prison units from the Tilburg prison for the construction of a closed centre in Zandvliet. This calls for a few questions. Has a decision already been taken on the construction of this new centre? If so, what budget has been committed for this purpose? In operating costs, what does this mean? How many places are provided for in this new centre if it is actually born? On what horizon do you envisage opening up? The press reports that these units will still have to be "brought into line with Belgian standards". What standards are involved? I remember that your ambition is to make it a special centre dedicated to "convicted people in Belgium". Do you have to understand that you are de facto planning to set up a prison? Are you considering specific rules for this place? If so, should it be considered a place of deprivation of liberty or a specific place within the meaning of the 1980 Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u100	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, most of your questions fall within the competence of my colleague from the Interior in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. As far as I can answer your questions, I can tell you the following. A total of 144 places will be created in the new centre. This will be an individual scheme, i.e. a system of chambers. In other centres, this is a collective scheme. Under the individual regime, this centre will be used to lock up "difficult" people, such as criminals, people with behavioural disorders, etc. It's not a prison. A separate royal decree will not be taken. The operation of the centre will be governed by the Royal Decree of 2 August 2002, the Royal Decree laying down the rules and rules of operation applicable to places situated in Belgian territory managed by the Office of Foreigners in which an alien is detained, placed at the disposal of the Government or maintained in accordance with the provisions referred to in Article 74-8, § 1 of the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of aliens.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u101	Mr Secretary of State, I take it that you confirm the opening of a centre. What worries me is that it is, as you describe it, a psychiatric centre since you say that it is intended primarily for people in difficulty or who have behavioural disorders...
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u102	[[Criminals and people with behavioural disorders.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u103	For the rest of my questions, I will address your colleague, the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u104	Mr Secretary of State, it is my responsibility that the sums of money that foreigners may hold when they are detained or brought to them by external support would be confiscated in the amount of 50 euros, which would constitute a "caution". What is the destination of this bond? How is it recorded during the duration of the stay and produces interest? Is this money returned when you leave? On what basis is this sum levied and, in the event that it is not returned, what contradictory document does it justify such a levy? Finally, if the amount is not returned, how high is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u105	Mrs Fernandez, the money held by a foreigner at the time of his entry into the closed centre or the money he receives during his stay thanks to the visits is kept in a safe place. During his stay, the foreign national may apply for an amount of EUR 50. Articles 120 and 121 of the Royal Decree on Closed Centres provide for administrative regulations in cases of release and removal. This means that residents who do not have the necessary means can benefit from a sum of 50 euros, allowing them to provide for their vital needs during the first days of detention. The government completes it if the person does not have it. In order to ensure that she does not spend the money during her stay and that the government does not pay additional amounts in case of release or departure, an amount of EUR 50 is retained as a guarantee. When they leave, residents obviously receive the money they had. As a first step, the purpose of this guarantee is to ensure that residents enjoy the financial means necessary for their vital needs when they leave the centre due to repatriation or release. Each of them receives this money when he leaves the centre. In addition, the guarantee is also used to cover the costs of intentional damage in the centre, which are very rare. At the beginning of the entry procedure, each resident shall sign a document relating to the regulation relating to the guarantee.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u106	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your clear answer. I would just like to ask you a small supplementary question. For visiting several closed centres, including Vottem, I was able to observe the presence of distributors and canteens. I hear that the money held by the people locked up is kept in a safe place, but I guess we're leaving some of it for them to eat. I understand you don't have the answer. We can come back to that in a later question. If food is at their disposal and they can't reach it, it's a little vicious. I'm interested in having the answer. I will therefore ask you a new question. Finally, when you say that the money is placed in a safe place, where is it? Is it in a safe in the closed center? If you cannot answer me, I will also ask you another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u107	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as part of a limited residence permit (card A), it is intended that holders must contact the Office of Foreigners at least one month before the expiry date of their residence permit, if they wish to renew it for another limited period. In many cases, however, this one-month period is not respected by your administration when it comes to providing a response to those concerned. Persons awaiting confirmation of the extension of their residence permit then find themselves in a complicated situation. First of all, once their residence permit has come to an end, they must await the decision of the Office of Foreigners, which may, in some cases, take some time. In addition, these people don't know if the title will be extended. During this period, some see their employment contract broken because the employer obviously cannot keep a person in a job without a valid residence permit. Finally, during the waiting period, the expiry of this residence permit does not allow them to leave the national territory for a short period of time, since they could not return. This situation is all the more problematic when it comes to children with an A card. If they integrate into society and go to school, school stays are often organised, sometimes in another European country. However, these children, who in the specific case would be in possession of an expired A card pending renewal, cannot participate in these school trips since they could not return to the territory afterwards. Mr Secretary of State, you must know that I am asking you this question because, as an ewe of the civil status of my commune, I have often been confronted with the problem. You will grant me, it is difficult to tell a child who is trying to integrate that he will not be able to take part in activities in which all his fellow students can participate. I can tell you that it is also difficult to explain this to the teaching staff and other students in the class. Mr. Secretary of State, what is the average processing time for an application for renewal of Card A? If this average duration exceeds one month, thus creating a situation where the applicant has only an expired residence permit, what mechanisms do you intend to put in place to speed up this procedure? What are the measures to enable people in this situation to keep their jobs without worrying their employer? If a child wishes to leave the territory as part of a school trip, and that child has an expired A card waiting for renewal, with a view to promoting above all the good of the child, would it be possible for that child to have an exemption or an A card, special school trip?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u108	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, we do not have any information to confirm that there is a problem with the renewal of cards A. We have asked our administration about your question, but we have not yet received an answer. It seems to me that the question was introduced yesterday. As soon as we receive an answer, we will not fail to inform you. It's still a little early.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u109	Secretary of State, I hear your answer. Can I ask you to think about solutions because we are relatively often asked about the problem situation of children? This is the case in Liège and I imagine it is also the case in other municipalities. We can all hear that they're children who go away and are not going to disappear in nature. As you have to wait a little while to get the answers, could you, Secretary of State, already think about solutions? So we wouldn't have lost, neither you nor me, our day.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u110	Secretary of State, it is a well-known rule, that people held in a closed centre cannot have phones equipped with cameras or cameras. It is my responsibility, however, that some devices which clearly do not have such technology are nevertheless rejected by the administration of the centres, because they do not know the model. Mr Secretary of State, what are the criteria actually adopted? What is the margin of appreciation left to the staff of the centres? Is there a list of permitted templates? Furthermore, it is also my responsibility that foreign SIM cards are confiscated or, at the very least, refused within the centres, under the argument that only cards sold in the premises of the centres would be allowed. Is that so? What is the legal basis for this practice, which deprives detained persons of contact with their social fabric?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u111	Fernandez Fernandez, the closed centres adopt a rather flexible and flexible policy on the use of personal gsm. Devices equipped with sound, photo and video capabilities are not allowed, in order to guarantee the privacy of staff, regardless of brand or model. It is therefore not correct to claim that certain models are not accepted when they meet the criteria set out above. The models that are accepted are essentially the basic gsm models, which the centre staff can easily recognize at the time of the intake. It is also not correct to state that only SIM cards sold in the centres are allowed. When a resident still has an active card, he can use it perfectly. The staff of the centres also have adapters to allow them to be used on the various devices. For residents who cannot use their own smartphone or who do not have their own device, it is possible to buy gsm devices in the centre at cheap prices. During the stay of the residents, the staff of the centre can activate a SIM card for residents who request it. Cards with call credit can always be purchased at the centre's shop.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u112	Secretary of State, I take note of your answers. We had contradictory information, but since you are the head of your administration, I assume she will take your answer into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u113	Mr Secretary of State, in certain circumstances, foreigners have only five days to appeal against a negative decision. However, it is my responsibility that several lawyers who have requested their client's administrative file in order to prepare this appeal receive an acknowledgement of receipt for any reply that the Agency has 30 days to forward this file. There is, of course, a breach of equality which puts an important brake on access to justice for these applicants, and which can have irreversible consequences for their personal situation. Mr Franken, do you confirm this information? If not, what is the time limit within which the Office actually transmits the files? And if this information is accurate, what steps do you intend to take to bring the transfer period back into a useful framework for the exercise of the right to appeal?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u114	Fernandez, the time limit for filing an appeal varies from five to ten days depending on the contested decision. The Publicity Service of the Administration of the Office of Foreigners has 30 days to respond to a request for access to the file. Where an action is brought, the file may be consulted at the Registry.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u115	Secretary of State, I take note of the answer. As with my previous question, we will return to the source of our information and perhaps return to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u116	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, as is well known, the priority given to law enforcement officials with regard to the repression of persons in situations of irregular residence necessarily leads to arrests by the police forces. As a result of these arrests, the police contact the Office of Foreigners, which may issue a decision to detain the arrested person in a closed centre, in the event that the person is "dubrable". The decision shall be notified by means of a standard document. Reading such a document requires several comments and questions. That document reproduces the requirement of Article 28(2) of Regulation (EU) 604/2013: "Member States may detain the persons concerned in order to guarantee the transfer procedures in accordance with this Regulation where there is a significant risk of their escape, on the basis of an individual assessment and only to the extent that the detention is proportional and if other less coercive measures cannot be effectively applied." It must be noted, however, that at no time did the decision specify what other less coercive measures (other than the issuance of a new order to leave the territory) had been envisaged, let alone evaluated. What about it? What alternative measures are envisaged and who carries out the evaluation? How long? The same document shall contain a handwritten mention of the date and time of signature of the police authority, of the person subject to the decision (at the time of the decision) and of the authority of the closed centre at the time of the beginning of the detention. There is no such handwritten mention on the part of the administrative authority, namely the Office of Foreigners. Why? Nor is there any trace of the time from which the alien is deprived of his or her freedom to come and go, which is necessarily prior to the decision to detain him or her in a closed centre. Why? Do you have any idea of the time between the arrest of foreign persons and the detention order? Are you aware of cases where this time exceeds 12 hours? In some cases, it is up to me that more than 12 hours are spent between the decision-making process and the actual placement. What is the status of the foreigner in question during this period? It appears from various decisions that reference can be made to hearings conducted by the police. However, there is no systematic record of a copy of the minutes of this hearing annexed to the decision. Why? Since the decision seems to be based on such a hearing, the minutes seem to me to be a useful attachment to the file. "The alien - so named in the document - declares that he has read the decision." This necessarily calls for the following question: Are hearings conducted in the presence of an interpreter? Is the decision translated abroad in such a way that knowledge is effective? If not, what is the value of the counterseing it affixes to the decision, which may contain statements that would be harmful to it in the context of the examination of its file? Considering that this hearing takes place in the context of an administrative arrest but leads to a decision of deprivation of liberty, does the foreigner (always so appointed) have the opportunity to be assisted by a lawyer? If so, how is he informed of this possibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u117	Dear colleague, the Foreign Office must make a decision within 24 hours of the moment of interception. For persons with identity documents, the decision is taken within 12 hours. The Agency makes a decision after the alien has been heard by the police. If the person concerned does not understand the language spoken by the police, a document translated into several languages will be presented to him/her. The Agency is assessing the various options and, in most cases, it is an order to leave the territory and not a lock-up in a closed centre. The service of the decision of an arrest must be taken within the legal time limits. At the beginning and end of the administrative arrests, it is possible to check in the registers the persons who have been arrested by the police. Hearing by the police in relation to a possible decision is not a decision established in a PV. The report of that hearing and/or the individual form shall be forwarded to the Office. I would point out to the honourable Member that an appeal is possible against any decision: against the arrest with the possibility of bringing the matter before the Chamber of Council and against the decision of expulsion to the Foreign Litigation Council (CEC).
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u118	Mr Secretary of State, I understand that there are two deadlines, one of 12 hours and the other of 24 hours. It is difficult to define the time when the time of interception does not appear anywhere. I am not implying that the police are in bad faith, but one can wonder from when, legally, is that time and until when. Maybe we should think about it. I note that these are not auditions and that as a result, there is no written CV. This is an issue for me, and I will not fail to come back to you on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u119	Secretary of State, there are persistent rumours of savings projects of up to 60 million in your budgets by the end of the year. While you have already closed many reception spaces in the ALAs and Red Cross centres, there is a great deal of concern among Fedasil's staff, especially since the principles of budgetary prudence applied in this institution over the past year and since January this year place particularly heavy constraints on its functioning. Is there indeed an ambition to reduce the budgets of the reception policy during this year? If so, how much? With regard to Fedasil in particular, what would be the impact in terms of jobs? Many employees were hired under an indefinite contract with a resolutory clause. Would this clause apply in this context? Beyond the question of possible dismissals and closures of reception places, the question would then arise of the working conditions of employees kept in place. What would be the framework standards for such a budget reduction? If such decisions were to be taken, how long do you envisage starting a social dialogue with the representatives of the workers in the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u120	The results of the 2018 budgetary control have not yet been notified to us. It is therefore premature to reply. In the absence of additional resources, Fedasil will have to review the reception capacity and, from there, adapt the necessary staff management. I am saying 'in the absence of additional resources', which is not yet the case. Budgetary control is under way. We've been asking for money. Last year and two years ago, that was also the case. It's the same situation as it was a year or two ago. Where appropriate, the Agency will consult staff representatives as soon as it has the necessary information. However, the case has not yet expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u121	Mr Secretary of State, I understood that you did not despair of getting extra budgets and that the sixty million savings were just a rumor. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u122	When we look at the initial 2018 budget, that's right. Moreover, this is also the reason why budgetary controls are exercised.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u123	Yes, we agree. I just wanted to make sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u124	For now, Fedasil has enough money, even if she needs a little more money. That is why I have requested additional resources for this exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u125	If I sum up your point correctly, the amount of sixty million savings is a rumor.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u126	It's a virtual sum.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u127	And so you asked for additional resources for Fedasil.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u128	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u129	I'm glad to hear that, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u130	Mr Secretary of State, the Office of the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe has sent you, on two occasions, letters concerning the confinement of minors in closed centres, the first on 12 December 2016 and the second on 5 June last, to which you replied on 13 June. Have you informed your government colleagues of their content? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u131	Mrs Fernandez, last week's communication on family units was a reply to a letter from the Commissioner for Human Rights which was transferred to us via the Foreign Office. This response was transmitted by the International Unit of the Interior to the Foreign Affairs Department, which sent it to the Council of Europe. The Foreign Affairs Department also ensures the transmission of this mail within the government and the Foreign Affairs Network through a mailing list. The letter of mid-December 2016 was transmitted via the same channel.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u132	Mr Secretary of State, thank you. I have my answer. And otherwise I guess they'll have read it like me on Twitter. It's all right!
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u133	Secretary of State, this weekend, you tweeted about "many" Bangladeshi nationals on board the humanitarian charter ship, the Aquarius. It appears that there were in total and for all three nationals of that country on board. On the basis of what elements did you find useful to describe these three people as "many" – a statement that you obviously even found excessive since you subsequently changed your publication? Bangladesh might not be a country at war, but the situation of certain minorities, particularly the Rohingya, was nevertheless alarming. A resolution has been tabled in this House on them, while others have been adopted in the United Nations Council and the European Parliament. Mr Secretary of State, what is the attitude of your administration towards Bangladeshi nationals introducing a file with our country? The Spanish government has taken the courageous and supportive decision to open its ports at the Aquarius. As a result, its French counterpart undertook to carry out an operation to relocate its passengers and to contribute to the financing of the costs incurred by Spain. What is the attitude of the Belgian Government in this situation? Has any aid been offered to Spain by your government?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u134	Mrs Fernandez, to answer your previous question on money, people who do not have money can do small jobs in closed centres. They get a little money for that. In the shop, they can buy goods. People who have money can use it as they wish. We dissuade them, we tell them that it is not very clever to do so, that it is better to leave it safe. But they can do whatever they want with their money. Most of them don't have much money. With regard to the Aquarius, I would like to point out that each application for international protection is assessed individually by an independent asylum body, the CGRA. If necessary, an administrative tribunal, the Foreign Litigation Council (CCE), is used. This therefore also applies to Bangladeshi nationals. The CGRA has all the information necessary to examine the requests for international protection of nationals of that country, knowingly and regardless of their profile: persons from an ethnic minority, political or other profile. I would like to point out that, last year, the CGRA's recognition rate of applicants from Bangladesh was only 3.7%. As for the Rohingya, they are from Myanmar and not Bangladesh. That is why they are not on the list of migrants. The asylum applications submitted by Bangladeshis are numerous and are even increasing: in 2016, there were 17 000 in the European Union; in 2017, the figure was 21 000. Several of them took the boat to Italy from Libya. I'll continue in Dutch. As far as the Aquarius is concerned, I can only say that the Spanish authorities have once opened a port for that ship. I rely on the further handling by Spain. It goes without saying that the commitment and responsibility will not stop when it is shipped out. Spain is now also responsible, in accordance with the Dublin Regulation, for the correct registration, the asylum procedure and, if necessary, the return of persons. In the case of secondary flows, I will not fail to apply the Dublin system in force. That's obvious. That goes for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-06-20-54-commissie-ic927x.u135	Mr Secretary of State, I also trust the government of Pedro Sánchez to manage things properly, with humanity and firmness. I did make a mistake about the origin of the Rohingya, but we're not always very good at geography. The rest of my questions remained unanswered, but I put myself in your place and I understand that sometimes it is better to keep quiet.
