ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u1	Questions Nos 24258 and 24409 by Gautier Calomne are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u2	Minister, Knack magazine conducted a survey in March on the remuneration of notaries in the Flemish Community. The author analysed the financial accounts of forty notaries and showed that their gross monthly remuneration varied between 60,000 and 160,000 euros. The Federation of Notaries reacted: it did not contradict the veracity of the figures, but stated that these were exceptions and that the average remuneration was rather around 16,000 euros. At a time when the inhabitants tighten their belts to pay their rent or to feed themselves, these incomes seem, despite this correction, quite high. The observation is very simple. For 35 years, the price of real estate has increased considerably: up to 15 times in the case of a house (between 1975 and 2016); rather ten times in the case of apartments. It is therefore mathematical: notaries, who charge their fees by applying legal rates per instalment, earn more when a property is sold more expensive. At the same time, computerization and administrative simplification have considerably eased their task, but also shortened the processing time for real estate transactions. Minister, what is your assessment of the cost of notarial acts? In the light of technological developments, do you not think they are disproportionate, particularly with regard to the acquisition of real estate? As you know, notaries benefit from a monopoly. Some countries have decided to put an end to it. What do you think? Is it not time to put on the table the tariffs of notarial acts, as well as the relevance of the notarial obligation for certain acts? Finally, you want to reform the profession of notary. To do this, you have appointed experts, two notaries. What are their conclusions at this stage? Is it not problematic to entrust a mission of expertise to people who have special interests, whereas the reflection on the future of the profession of notary should be conducted without taboo and give priority to the general interest and that of consumers?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u3	Mrs Lalieux, as you know, at the end of the year, I wish to submit to the government and Parliament a bill to modernize the legal professions. A reform of the notariat will be part of it. For each profession, I have appointed experts who will send me an independent report, after consultation with stakeholders. Their membership in the relevant occupational group only enhances their expertise. These reports are not a diktat for the government and for myself, but rather a source of inspiration among others, from which I will draw in the development of the bill. The general interest and that of the citizens, i.e. the people and businesses, represent our guiding thread. I've also read about the revenues you're referring to. However, these amounts must be viewed in their proper context and should be balanced. The main thing is that these figures convince me that we must continue to follow the path that this government is already taking. Thus, in the law of 6 July 2017 or "pot-pourri V", it has been provided that the costs and fees of waivers and acceptances of estates in which the liability is greater than the asset, or in which the liability is less than EUR 5,000, must be borne by the notariat. Regardless of the fact that these revenue figures are the result of a booming real estate market in recent years, I am convinced that we can go further through the social cross-subsidization that is included in the tariffs. Thanks to this tariff, the wealthy citizen pays a larger contribution and thus allows free notice and low rates for basic benefits, such as those relating to family law and inheritance law. Quality basic services provided by notaries, which are more accessible to citizens, are only possible through a tariff that allows cross-subsidization. In this regard, I will take initiatives in the coming weeks, in addition to the modernization law that I have just discussed, which is expected to be completed by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u4	Minister, I heard you were going to do a study. However, this needs to be placed in a more European context. I am thinking of the fact that certain acts require notarial acts. This reflection must still have its place. Do you really need a notary, for example to create an AISBL? We wonder why. A notary must also be called upon to enter into a marriage contract. One wonders why the notary should do so, instead of members of other legal professions. I hope that you will incorporate this into your reflection, as well as the questioning of the monopoly of notaries, which they always have in fact. I know this only concerns part of the real estate costs. There are other areas where the Regions have done considerable work. In Brussels, sales have increased by thirty times in fifteen years, and notary fees have also risen as a result of the legal increase in the 1980s. It is easy to review the legal rates. This does not require a major reform of the notariat. Legal rates could be redone. I invite you to look at the bill I made. I believe that you can act before your great reform affecting all the legal professions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u5	Following my previous questions on the ground sleepers in the various prisons, I was informed that thirty bunk beds were immediately placed in the Hasselt prison, where there were some beds to deal with the problem. The area of these cells is calculated on the basis of individual use; therefore, they are too small to accommodate several persons. Can you guarantee that the placement of bunk beds is a temporary solution to closed wings such as Bruges and Leuven, being manned and occupied again? Wouldn't it be better to reopen the prison wings closed due to staff shortages, instead of placing bunk beds in single cells? To man the wings, of course, you need staff. In the agreement with the trade unions that you concluded at the end of February 2018, you guarantee a framework of 6 825 full-time employees. Has that figure been achieved at the moment? How many full-time employees are currently employed? Is it clear when the closed departments in Bruges and Leuven will reopen?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u6	First of all, I would like to stress that the placement of bunk beds in prisons is a purely humanitarian measure, so that, in the case of overcrowding, prisoners can be accommodated in humanitarian circumstances, now and later if necessary. If we gave the placement a temporary character, it would mean that we could top the population figure in absolute terms, which, of course, is not possible for an arrest house. After all, the influx of prisoners into custody does not fall within the sphere of influence of the penitentiary administration. Consequently, the presence of accused persons in detention homes is subject to significant fluctuations and the placement of bunk beds is one of the material initiatives to deal with these fluctuations. We are, of course, making every effort to recruit additional staff in the short term, so that the closed wings can be put back into operation. Today, 6 732,9 full-time staff work in prisons under the surveillance framework and technical framework, or 98,6 % of the established frameworks. Last month that was 98.4 % or 6 715 employees. Other 44 confirmed their entry into service on 1 May 2018. In addition, Selor has recently announced new selection procedures for penitentiary security assistant. I therefore believe that the objective of Protocol 464 will be achieved. The reopening of the departments in Bruges and Leuven will be the logical consequence of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u7	So, Minister, can I assume that the placement of bunk beds is not a temporary solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u8	Mrs Lambrecht, those bunk beds don't have to be full. I don't know if you understand anything about prison management in this country. There is no numerus clausus for prisons. The only thing a country can do is maintain significant overcapacity, so that, if there are too many judgments, it can accommodate those concerned, thanks to this overcapacity. You are aware that at the moment we do not have overcapacity, because we do not have a number of new prisons built, and that, on the other hand, we are faced with undercapacity. I am therefore busy at the moment trying to get the prisons in Haren and Dendermonde built.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u9	Minister, all I understand is that people on the ground have to sleep in cells on a small surface. You can explain that. You have to explain that, too. That's your job. That is very bad for the staff who have to work there and that people need to calm down. I hear signals that this is very difficult. My question was whether you are aware that the area is too small for the bunk beds to be placed. This is very bad for the staff and for the inmate, who must be prepared to return to society under these conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I recently asked your colleague the Minister of the Interior about motorists driving under the influence of drugs. While the phenomenon is not yet recognized as that of driving alcohol, it remains an issue of concern. Indeed, the number of drug-positive controlled persons has crossed the mark of 6,000 cases in three years. In addition, the proposed tests for drug use appear to be simpler than urinary or blood tests. They allow police officers to be more autonomous and less dependent on doctors. The acquisition of new tests would further increase the number of checks and thus increase citizens' awareness of the dangers of drugs driving. Your colleague, Minister, informed me that between 18,000 and 36,000 salivary tests were available. Could you confirm that number? Are the tests available in sufficient quantity? Do they cover all needs? If this is not the case, how can we manage the acquisition and distribution of drug testing devices?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, 21,802 salivary tests were purchased in 2017 for an amount of 261,238.06 euros, including 7,025 salivary tests for the federal road police and 14,777 for the local police areas. For 2018, €303,068 was requested for the release of credits, which corresponds to all tests on an annual basis. In order to avoid deficits in local police areas, we will do what is necessary to optimize the procurement process. To date, 7,956 salivary tests have been commissioned by the FPS Justice and provided to local police areas and the federal road police. My administration is not aware of any particular deficits.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u12	Minister, I have put three questions to you about the translators and the interpreters. Many questions have been asked about this, but the problem continues to drag on. Since 1 December 2016, the national register for recognised, sworn translators and interpreters has been in force. Due to the absence of some KBs, a number of problems arise. A solution was found for a number of problems, but a number of issues remain unclear. Thus, the Registrys of the Courts of First Instance now legalise the signatures of everyone who was previously sworn in, especially for translations outside criminal law. These are translations of civil status documents, diplomas, driving licences, certificates, instruments of incorporation and statutes of companies and the like. I have a very specific question on this. Who can be appointed as an ad hoc translator for such assignments and how should that be done? The same question applies to interpreters for driving licences, marriages, municipal councils and OCMW councils in the Brussels Region. That brings me to my second question. Since 1 December 2016, the national register for recognised, sworn translators and interpreters has been in force. A transitional period of five years is foreseen for the entry into service of the register. It ends on 1 December 2021. Due to the delays mentioned, interpreters and translators are not yet able to meet the conditions for accession, as they are not yet known. This shortens the effective transitional period for compliance with the rules. I have the following questions. Where do you stand with the various royal decrees that have yet to be published? When will these be published? How will the acceptance committee organise its work? How will applications for the register be examined and dealt with? How much resources have already been used to implement the national registers, including those of experts, and the implementing decisions of the Registry Act? How many employees have been working on this work since the publication of the law in the Belgian Official Journal in December 2014? My third question concerns the lack of clarity in the swearing-in of translators by the provisional register. The national register has been in force since 1 December 2016. However, a temporary temporary register had to be worked out because not all the necessary legislation was ready. However, the status of the temporary register is also unclear. Your answer to a recent question by Mr Becq has not been able to remove that doubt. Indeed, you state that those who are entered in the national register, including in the framework of a provisional registration until 1 December 2021, should not take an oath and are treated as if their entry in the register is already final. However, it appears that this position is not followed by the President of the College of Courts and Courts. He stated that, in the absence of implementing acts which would have to lay down, inter alia, the conditions for accession, no one could currently bear the title of sworn translator or sworn interpreter. There can only be an ad hoc appointment per case and no one can be definitively part of the register for the time being. The main reason for this is that there is no check on the provisional register. Several services also do not yet have access to the database of the provisional national register. I have the following questions. Should translators and interpreters who are entered in the provisional register take an oath on every case? In other words, do you follow the view of the President of the College of Courts and Courts, who states that this should be done? What is the point of a national register at the moment, since the national register of provisional tenders offers no guarantee, even that the interpreters and translators are sworn in? Police inspection services, municipalities, lawyers and the general public still do not have access to the national register database. How's that going?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u13	Minister, the law of 10 April 2014 provides for the creation of two new Belgian registers: the register for sworn translators, interpreters and translators and the register for legal experts. These two new national registers have a double objective: to provide an overview of those who can be used and, above all, to provide a quality guarantee. They offer the seeker a guarantee of the professional skills and legal knowledge of the translators, interpreters and legal experts. Recently, the Association of Professional Translators and Interpreters, which has been in force since 1 December 2016, has complained that the necessary implementing decisions are still missing. Mr President, first of all, where are the implementing decisions? Secondly, how is morality and reliability guaranteed pending publication of the necessary implementing acts?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u14	Mr Van Hecke and Mrs Lambrecht, the legalization of a signature and the sworn translation are two different matters. For the sworn translation there is no problem. As long as the acceptance committee has not started and we are in the transitional period provided for by the law, the exception of Article 27 of the Law of 10 April 2014 applies: the translator or interpreter takes the oath per performance. Preferably, the persons registered shall be called upon on the basis of their services before 1 December 2016. The legalization of the signature is a confirmation of the authenticity of the translator's signature, which is only necessary for certain acts. Where this is still going through the courts today, the national register could also provide a certification of the signature after a one-off legalisation of the signature and its inclusion in the database. This is a project for which the business case is currently being prepared. The KBs laying down the deontological rules for the legal experts, on the one hand, and the translators and interpreters, on the other hand, were published in the Belgian Official Journal on 31 May 2017. The KB which regulates legal training was signed and was sent to the Belgian Official Journal for publication. This will therefore be published shortly. The KB for the ID card has been prepared. The technical analysis and selection of the card creation system will be completed in the coming weeks. The aim is to ensure smooth production at a minimum cost. It also looks at how to use already known data from the National Register, such as the photograph, to obtain maximum uniformity. The royal decision on the acceptance committee and the contribution to the costs was resubmitted to the Treasury Inspectorate in mid-March, after adjusting its previous observations. This resulted in a positive opinion, provided that some minor adjustments were made, and the KB will be submitted to the King for signature shortly. The acceptance committee will have to draw up its own internal rules. She will work closely with the National Register service, which provides the secretariat. At the request of the Treasury Inspectorate, the committee will have a minimum number of members, who will deal with all applications, some as an "A" point without discussion, the simple requests, others as a "B" point with a possible discussion, the more complex dossiers. In this way, a case law will emerge that will guide the future. In the event of a dispute, the person concerned will be asked to clarify his file and, if necessary, he will be heard. The "National Register" Steering Committee is continuing its work on the implementation of the law. Magistrates, judicial staff, the NICC, the National Register and ICT department further shape the development. The National Register department has a director and a deputy director of a different language role, which are part of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking acceptance committee. The processing of all files is currently done by two Dutch-speaking and two French-speaking staff. As already mentioned, the translators and interpreters must take the oath per performance pending the evaluation by the acceptance committee. You are aware that there is a lack of clarity, because the oath formula for the interpreters has been made in the past tense and must be followed by the signature. The position of the College of the Courts and Courts was now followed by a judgment of the Court of Cassation. In a judgment of 13 February 2018, the Court confirmed: "An oath taken by an interpreter is regular, even if that oath is not taken literally in the terms prescribed by Article 27 of the Act on the Register of Experts and Interpreters, in so far as the oath taken has the same meaning as the prescribed oath and the same obligations are imposed on the interpreter." Next week, the Justice Commission is discussing a minor legislative amendment to remove the problem of double swearing-in for interpreters. The national register is of great use because it already provides the judicial order with a national overview of all available translators and interpreters, ranked according to their language skills and territorial availability. In principle, these are only persons who were already active before 1 December 2016. If there are any comments on the quality, these can be indicated to the National Register department. The Law of 10 April 2014, with its amendments, provides for the publication of the database of accepted experts and translators on the basis of the criteria laid down. The work of the Acceptance Committee will consist of accepting or not accepting all experts and translators before 1 December 2021. There are discussions going on between the Justice Department and the police to also give the police access to the current, not yet public databases. I am aware of the demand for the new experts and translators to upload their files in the database in the short term. My employees are now investigating how a legislative amendment can meet this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply and for the overview of the royal decisions that are still in preparation, are in preparation or are almost ready. There is indeed some work ahead of us. In the field, a number of practical problems are sometimes encountered as a result of the absence of these royal decisions. I hope, Minister, that the work will move forward quickly, so that there will be clarity on the ground as soon as possible, especially for experts or translators who carry out important tasks for justice, so that there will be no major legal problems within a few months or years when something would go wrong in a procedure or when taking an oath. That could have a serious impact on ongoing court cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u16	Questions Nos 24791, 24792 and 24793 by Mr Brecht Vermeulen are transformed into written questions. Questions No 24794 by Mr Brecht Vermeulen and No 24799 by Mr Georges Dallemagne were withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u17	Mr President, Minister, on Sunday 25 March 2018, the vehicle of Mr.Carles Puigdemont, former Prime Minister of Catalonia, was stopped in Germany and the person was arrested on the basis of listening devices installed in his car at his home in Waterloo. The installation of such equipment appears to have been commissioned by the Spanish intelligence services. The authoritative Spanish media, including the newspaper El País, confirm this. This message was never denied or contradicted. Nor is it the first time that the Spanish intelligence services have acted in this way on Belgian soil. I refer to a case from 2007, in which listening devices from Spectronic Products were recovered in Ixelles in the flat of a Basque MEP. The judicial investigation then showed that this Danish equipment could only and could be sold to police, military and intelligence services. The device was sold by the Danish manufacturer to a Spanish distributor in Madrid, but because this distributor claimed to no longer have the sales invoice, the case was ranked without effect after eight years. As regards the Puigdemont case, under the BOM Act, only the prosecutor could order special investigative methods under the supervision of the Kl or, under the BIM Act, only special intelligence methods could be used by the State Security Services and by the military intelligence service, under strict conditions. I think it is fair to assume that such a thing did not happen in this case. By using such equipment, the Spanish intelligence services have committed crimes on Belgian territory. It concerns infringements of the privacy law of 8 December 1991 and of Article 314a of the Criminal Code, as well as a violation of the Constitution and the ECHR. The Belgian Justice cannot afford to leave such an attitude untouched. That is why I have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, do you have any knowledge that in the meantime there is a criminal investigation, we have heard a little more about this through the media, and that there is a judicial investigation into these facts in Belgium, or whether a complaint has been made? Secondly, what steps will you possibly take in the context of your positive right of insertion? Thirdly, is there cooperation between the Belgian and Spanish intelligence services? Fourthly, are the P and I committees aware of this? Fifthly, do you ask the Spanish authorities for a text and explanation, for example to the Spanish Embassy, and tell them that such offences cannot be committed in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u18	Mr President, Mr Degroote, a criminal investigation was indeed opened by the Walloon Brabant parish. Since an investigation is ongoing, there is therefore no need to use the right of positive entry. The Belgian Security of the State, following the agreement of the Attorney General, obtained the admission of the Procurator of the King in Walloon Brabant to inspect and copy the Belgian criminal investigation. Neither the Office for Surveys of the Standing Committee P nor the Office for Surveys of the Standing Committee I was entrusted with a task of investigation by the judicial authorities in this file. The investigation is conducted by the federal judicial police of Walloon Brabant. The success of this research and the secret of this research do not allow me to give more information. As far as I know, the matter has not yet been discussed with the Spanish Embassy or the Spanish Government, given the ongoing investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your very limited reply. In the meantime, we know that there is a judicial investigation going on. It was not known whether this was about the first facts or about the second facts. I'd like to assume that it's about both facts. Apart from that, is it possible to ask for text and explanation during an investigation? I remember there was a study last year on threats to social media in connection with the Turkish embassy. Then the Turkish ambassador was asked for an explanation. If we only focus on the research, as you say, this may indeed take a long time. In the case I referred to, where listening devices were placed with a Basque MEP, we speak of over eight years. If members of Spanish diplomacy are to be heard during the investigation, they will even enjoy immunity. So there are too many reasons to ask for text and explanation already. Failure to do so is, after all, a signal that everything on our territory would be allowed to go further and thus implicitly means approval of the Spanish intelligence services. There is already far too much silence in this matter by the EU when it comes to the Spanish approach. Once again, silence on this illegal action means support for the Spanish repression. As far as the Spanish justice system is concerned, I would like to point out that the Spanish courts are excellent in expressing political positions. In this case, for example, they impose a ban on dealing with all points in parliament, as well as a ban on discussing and deciding on certain matters. Punishment is imposed only on Members of Parliament for their parliamentary commitment. Certain statements are intended to prevent parliamentary operation, parliamentary democracy. A country that excels in judgments with a political impact and therefore acts in violation of human rights is unworthy of the name "legal state." Finally, in his last State of the Union, the Prime Minister said that dialogue between the protagonists should be encouraged in this case. A solution had to be found with respect for national and international law. The latter is, however, far from being here at the moment. I understand you had a dialogue with the Spanish Minister of Justice on 3 April. You do not say anything about that here, but I read in El País that you were talking about the European Arrest Warrant. However, this does not encourage dialogue between the protagonists, Minister. On the contrary, as one makes it seem, this is once again playing into the hands of the Spanish justice system, the Spanish repression that is not satisfied and wants to put you in front of her cart. In short, our people have the right to know in the short term what the Spanish intelligence services have done here. It's not a cowboy country here, one can't just perform here. The Spanish government must now confess or deny what its media proclaims with a great deal of bravado. As Minister of Justice, you should address your Spanish counterpart. At the government table, you must insist that there is an official response from Spain.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-04-18-54-commissie-ic868x.u20	Questions No 24525 by Mr Olivier Maingain, No 24593 by Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, No 24800 and No 24801 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh and No 24825 by Mrs Muriel Gerkens are transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 24846, 24856 and 24860 by Mrs Carine Van Cauter were postponed. Question No 24876 by Mr Dirk Van der Maelen is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 24970 and 25011 by Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu were postponed. Questions No 25016 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and No 25020 by Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh are transformed into written questions.
