ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u1	Madam President, as your adviser himself has been concerned with this question, I am all the more enthusiastic about it. Moreover, I have, since today, a Parisian intern who will certainly be interested in our question. Minister, France recently announced its intention to ban the sale of cotton tiges as early as January 2020. This measure is taken within the framework of the Biodiversity Act adopted in July 2016. These extremely polluting plastic sticks represent 1.2 million tons of waste in our French neighbours each year. Regularly thrown by users into the toilets, they are found in numbers in rivers and seas, thus greatly increasing the mass of what is called the "plastic continent". From a medical point of view, many doctors also warn against the use of cotton tiges for various reasons. The ban decided in France is therefore largely supported. Minister, what is your view on the matter? Do you feel that such a measure should be taken in the future with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u2	Mr President, it is difficult to determine how many cotton twigs are found in the sea. The monitoring of the beaches carried out by Belgium in the framework of the OSPAR Convention shows that cotton twigs are rare on our coast: less than 0.5%. In European statistics, the figures are somewhat different. According to the Joint Research Centre, the category "pails and sticks" accounts for 4% of waste at sea at European level. This difference can be explained by consumer habits. Indeed, in some countries, cotton-tips are thrown into the toilet after use, which I find aberrant. The consumption of these cotton tiges is not monitored separately and a ban on such products in Belgium would have a very small effect on our environment. Many rivers cross several borders. Similarly, the advantages and disadvantages of alternatives are not well known. The impact of the production of stainless steel straws, for example, is several times greater than that of plastic straws. Paper or wood can also be alternatives, but few examples are known with these materials. I would also like to point out that our waste management system is very efficient and that it is clear that no plastic waste should be outside the garbage. That's why I find this behavior aberrant! In our view, it is therefore clear that the problem must be tackled on a larger scale. The European Commission has recently launched a study on possible measures for the management of single-use plastic products. Our intention is to fully support this initiative and to encourage the Commission to propose ambitious solutions. Solutions at this level will have a much greater impact and will, I hope, really push producers to develop alternatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u3	Madam President, since your collaborator almost broke through the tympanum with a cotton swab, I am all the more attentive to the problem. More seriously, this problem is part of everything about disposable plastic objects. Although Britain has been horrifying me since the Brexit vote, it has been banning plastic cups and cutlery since this week. It's the same logic. A lot of emissions have also been seen lately on straws that can be made of paper or other recyclable materials. In any case, minister, I thank you for being sensitive to this issue and I hope that we can evolve, as we have already done in other areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u4	I regularly organize information sessions on cotton-tiges and these kinds of things. We know they're in the bathroom, but when we meet with citizens to talk about it, no one recognizes throwing them in the bathroom. This is a real subject that we need to address.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u5	Madam President, I will remain consistent. You see, we can be eco-friendly, but we can't be eco-friendly. Minister, on 17 January 2018, the European Commission implemented its first-ever European strategy on plastics, as part of the transition to a more circular economy. Every year, Europeans produce 25 million tonnes of plastic waste, of which only less than 30% are collected for recycling. Plastics around the world account for 85% of the waste found on beaches. In addition, their residues are found in the lungs of Europeans and on their tables. Indeed, microplastics are present in the air, in water and in food, without us knowing the consequences for our health. Minister, I will therefore ask you the following questions, although you are not yet in charge of Public Health. Can we say that Belgium is one of the good European pupils in terms of plastic management? What was our country's contribution to the development of this European strategy? Is there a Belgian strategy on single-use plastics developed between the different levels of power? We know that, in our country, expertise in this area is shared. What is the degree of expertise and competitiveness of our plastics recycling companies in relation to European and global competition?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u6	Thank you, honourable Member, for this question. It is true that on 16 January the European Commission published a communication entitled "A European strategy for plastic in the circular economy". As always with a communication from the European Commission, it is a document drawn up by the Commission itself. There has therefore been no collaboration with Member States or contributions from them or the European Parliament. However, staff of my departments and representatives of the Regions have maintained intensive contacts with the Commission services. Thus, the main points for Belgium could still be reported. It is also well known that Belgium enjoys a good reputation for the collection of recyclable waste. With regard to plastic packaging, Belgium achieved a recovery rate of 98.3% in 2015 for a European average of 71.3%. There are also the packagings that have been incinerated with energy recovery. There is therefore certainly still room for further recycling. However, this is a regional competence. More information on waste treatment and recycling can be obtained from my regional colleagues. However, it is important to note that many plastic waste is sorted in Belgium, but few are recycled. Such a practice occurs primarily in our neighbours because of the scale required for recycling to be cost-effective. However, the sudden decision by China not to import plastic waste can also lead Belgium to develop a clean recycling capacity. I can tell you that the industrialists are thinking about it. However, there is currently no Belgian umbrella strategy for single-use plastic products. In May, the Commission will make a legislative proposal on this subject. It is therefore not appropriate for each Member State to draw up separate legislation and plans until then.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u7	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, this question was complementary to the previous question. I know that Belgium, in the area of waste recycling, is in advance, in any case in relation to our French and southern European neighbours. It is clear, but my model is Germany in this area. In some cases, such as cans, this country is always more efficient than we are. I know your sagacity and your willingness to be at the top of the European class. The development of this issue will therefore be monitored in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u8	Minister, this question is dated September 29, 2017. On 28 September 2017, the European Commission approved investments totalling €222 million from the EU budget to support Europe's transition to a more sustainable and low-carbon future under the LIFE programme for the environment and climate action. EUR 181.9 million will be spent on projects in the fields of environment and rational use of natural resources, biodiversity and environmental governance and information. Minister, EU funds will mobilise additional investments for a total of €379 million for 139 new projects in 20 Member States. Is Belgium one of these 20 member countries? If so, what are the projects defended by Belgium? What amounts will be allocated to him? What are the respective federal and regional projects? Have these projects been developed within the interdepartmental conference between federal and regional authorities? As regards the amount of EUR 181.9 million, what will be the concrete projects defended by the European Union? What are the economic and ecological benefits for Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u9	Member, I have a question before me on March 5, 2018. It concerns a decision of the European Commission of 8 February, according to which it would allocate €98.2 million in investments to improve the quality of life of European citizens. Is this an additional question? I would like to be sure that the answer I have prepared corresponds to the current question. This is the LIFE programme. However, I have an answer to another question of which you are the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u10	In my view, the question has been re-examined because, September, that is not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u11	Madam Minister, you have already given me the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u12	No, I would have answered that question and I didn't expect the question you just asked because I don't have it in front of me.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u13	It may also be an error of the secretariat. I am surprised that this is a question that dates back to September, especially since you "are still on the ball".
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u14	The item on the agenda is item No. 24109.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u15	And the one that the minister gave me is also question No. 24109. In that case, I will reword the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u16	If this is the same question, I do not have a problem because I have an answer to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u17	I will then simply listen to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u18	The answer is formatted on question No 24109, which is not the one I have just heard. That's why I'm questioning you. This announcement by the European Commission on 8 February concerns the integrated projects of the LIFE programme. That is the subject of your question. The selection of these large-scale projects is made apart from the selection of traditional LIFE projects. Through an integrated project, an administration may implement environmental or climate action plans that are required by specific environmental or climate legislation of the Union, mainly in the fields of nature, water, waste, air, climate change mitigation and adaptation, while ensuring the participation of relevant actors and promoting the mobilisation of at least one other relevant source of Union funding, whether national or private, and coordination with it. The LIFE programme, which runs from 2014 to 2020, allows each Member State to develop three integrated projects, with a view to ensuring a balanced distribution within the Union. Since the start of the LIFE programme in 2014, Belgium has seized the opportunity of this new category of projects and introduced an integrated project to each new call for projects. The first, the Belgian nature integrated project, covering the Flemish Region, the Walloon Region and the Federal Region, supports the implementation of Natura 2000 management plans. In the second project, the Belini project, the three Regions work together to meet the challenges at the level of the Scheldt, mainly in relation to the quality of water, biodiversity and climate change. In the 2016 call for projects, a third Belgian integrated project was selected, this time in the field of climate change. This is the BE-REEL project! or Belgium Renovates for Energy Efficient Living. It aims to implement the strategies of the Flemish and Walloon regions for the renovation of residential buildings with a view to improving energy performance. Various practical, technical and management tools and concepts, as well as financial instruments, will be developed for their transfer, replication and mainstreaming, in collaboration with stakeholders and local regions. Field actions will be carried out in the cities of Ghent, Antwerp, Malines, Mouscron and La Louvière. In the long term, the project aims to influence the low-emission strategies of other cities and municipalities in the three regions. The concrete actions of the LIFE project target 8 000 renovated dwellings and the reduction of total greenhouse gas emissions to 18 600 tonnes of CO2 per year. LIFE actions cover a total budget of EUR 13 866 516 to which the European Commission contributes around 60%. An integrated project must also link to complementary actions supported by other national, regional or private European funds. For the BE-REEL! project, stakeholders have secured a commitment from the Interreg Fund, the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), Horizon 2020 and regional and municipal budgets. These complementary actions developed by these funds in Belgium concern employment, training, innovation and spatial planning, all in relation to the energy renovation of buildings. With these three projects, Belgium has reached the maximum number of integrated projects set. For the remaining three years of the 2018-2020 programme, the challenge for Belgium, and in particular for its companies, NGOs and administrations, is to propose traditional projects that meet European priorities with innovative or demonstration proposals with European added value, and concrete and measurable effects on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2018-05-02-54-commissie-ic884x.u19	Madam Minister, thank you. I apologize for the confusion in my questions. As a result of my interest in the LIFE programme, I have become somewhat tangled with my brushes. So I beat my octopus. In any case, I am satisfied with your answer. I note your eagerness to submit texts. Only ten projects were selected across the European Union. That's very good, and I thank you for that.
